Good morning.
My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Sean.
Welcome to Chevron's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call And Webcast.
On the call with me today are Gary Luquette President of our North American Exploration and Production Company.
I've asked Gary to join me on the call this morning to give you an update on our recent Atlas acquisition and Gulf of Mexico activity.
Chevron and Gary specifically have taken a leadership role in addressing the administration's concerns regarding drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
Gary serves as chair of the governing body leading the joint industry task forces that have been working to improve prevention intervention and spill response capabilities with the goal of getting the industry back to work.
Also on the call is Jeanette Ourada General Manager of Investor Relations.
Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the first quarter of 2011 we'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown here on Slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The company's first quarter earnings were $6.2 billion or $3.09 per diluted share.
Comparing the first quarter 2011 to the same quarter a year earlier our earnings were up 36%.
Upstream benefited from higher crude prices and Downstream benefited from improved margins.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was over 18%.
Our debt ratio at the end of March was 9.5%.
In the first quarter we repurchased $750 million of our shares.
In the second quarter we are increasing our repurchase rate to $1 billion.
Finally we announced Wednesday that Chevron's Board of Directors approved a $0.06 per share or 8.3% increase in the common stock quarterly dividend.
This is our 24th consecutive year of higher dividend payout.
Now on Slide 4 cash generated from operations was nearly $10 billion during the first quarter.
This is a record for the company.
Our cash from operations provided excellent support for our capital program the Atlas acquisition including associated debt retirement our dividend payments and our share buyback program.
At quarter end our cash balances totaled nearly $17 billion.
This put us in a net cash position of $5.3 billion.
We see the 8% dividend increase and a simultaneous boost in our share repurchase rate as meaningful moves.
Combined we believe they send strong signals about our ability to both generate and to deliver tangible cash distribution rewards to our shareholders.
Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.
Jeanette? Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 5.
I'll compare results of the first quarter 2011 with the fourth quarter 2010.
As a reminder our earnings release compares first quarter 2011 with the same quarter a year ago.
First quarter earnings were $960 million higher than the fourth quarter.
Starting on the left side of the chart Upstream earnings were up $1.1 billion driven by higher crude oil realizations.
Downstream results were lower by $120 million.
Stronger refining and chemical margins were more than offset by unfavorable timing impacts in this quarter and the absence of fourth quarter gains on asset sales.
The variance in the other bar reflects the unfavorable swing in corporate tax items.
On Slide 6 our U.S.
Upstream earnings for the first quarter were $519 million higher than the fourth quarter's results.
Higher crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $390 million.
U.S.
crude realizations were up 17% between consecutive quarters higher than the 11% increase in the average spot price of West Texas intermediate.
Our U.S.
crude realizations are primarily tied to Mars Louisiana light sweet and San Joaquin Valley heavy crudes which all traded at premiums to WTI during the first quarter.
Natural gas realizations improved by 11% in line with Henry Hub spot prices.
Lower sales volumes decreased earnings by $40 million between periods due to two fewer days in the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
Lower operating expenses benefited earnings by $40 million between periods primarily due to lower costs related to timing of maintenance activities.
The other bar is comprised of a number of unrelated items including the absence of unfavorable year-end LIFO inventory drawdowns and lower exploration and abandonment expenses.
Turning to Slide 7.
International Upstream earnings were up $611 million compared with the fourth quarter.
Higher oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $910 million.
Average liquids realizations increased 20% in line with the increase in average Brent spot prices.
Natural gas realizations rose 5% between quarters.
Lower liftings primarily in Angola Australia and Kazakhstan decreased earnings by $255 million.
This is directionally aligned with two fewer days in the quarter.
Lower exploration expense benefited earnings by $140 million due to lower well write-offs and lower data acquisition costs.
Moving to the next bar.
An unfavorable change in foreign currency effects impacted earnings by $65 million.
The first quarter had a loss of about $115 million compared to a loss of about $50 million in the fourth quarter.
These foreign exchange effects have no direct impact on cash.
They are primarily balance sheet translation effects.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including higher withholding taxes on affiliate dividend distributions partly offset by a lower depreciation expense.
Turning to Slide 8.
During our March Security Analyst Meeting we discussed our plan to move certain major capital projects that have reached peak production into our base business.
The map shows the specific projects being recategorized.
The two bars on the graph show fourth quarter production with both the original split between base business and MCPs and the new categorization.
The impact was a shift of 482 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production decreased 26 000 barrels per day in the first quarter compared with the fourth quarter of 2010.
Higher prices reduced volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts during the first quarter decreasing production about 22 000 barrels per day.
In the past we have used the change in WTI to calculate a PSC price effect.
Given the recent divergence in the WTI-Brent Spread going forward we will use the change in Brent to calculate the price effect because it is more closely tied to our international realizations.
The average Brent price increased $19 per barrel between quarters which resulted in about a 1 200 barrel per day volume reduction for each dollar increase in Brent.
Recall that over a range of prices PSC effects are not linear.
As prices rise the PSC production impact decreases.
Weather conditions in onshore U.S.
Australia and the U.K.
lowered production 15 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Base business production increased 7 000 barrels per day largely driven by an increase in cost recovery barrels in various locations offset by normal field decline.
This bar also includes a small positive impact from the addition of 6 weeks of Atlas production.
Contributions for major capital projects increased first quarter production by 4 000 barrels per day primarily driven by continued ramp up at Perdido and Frade.
We reaffirm our full year production outlook of 2.79 million barrels per day.
The outlook assumes $79 per barrel the same average price as 2010 and does not assume OPEC curtailments material security or market impacts.
We'll provide another update on the second quarter earnings call.
Turning to Slide 10.
U.S.
Downstream earnings fell $33 million in the first quarter.
Indicator margins improved earnings by $170 million driven by higher refining margins for both the Gulf Coast and West Coast.
Both areas had stronger demand especially for distillates.
This stronger demand occurred simultaneously with normal planned refinery maintenance.
Stocks were depleted and margins widened as a consequence of these two divergent forces.
The next bar shows a $380 million negative earnings variance primarily reflecting the absence of a fourth quarter gain on the sale of our interest in the Colonial Pipeline Co.
Chemical earnings improved by $90 million mainly due to higher margins for olefins and aromatics.
The other bar includes positive impacts from lower turnaround activity in the first quarter and a favorable pipeline rate settlement.
On Slide 11 international Downstream earnings were also lower falling $87 million from fourth quarter's results.
Margins reduced earnings by $25 million.
Stronger refining margins in Asia and Canada were more than offset by supply mix effects in Asia and lower European refining margins.
Timing effects represented a $230 million negative earnings variance between quarters reflecting a swing from a positive $35 million in the fourth quarter to a negative $195 million in the first quarter.
The primary drivers were unfavorable inventory effects mostly in Asia during the period of rapidly rising prices and the absence of fourth quarter's favorable year-end LIFO effects.
Lower operating expenses across multiple categories benefited earnings by $35 million.
The other bar includes a number of unrelated items including small asset sales improved shipping results and a favorable tax variance partly offset by lower volumes.
Slide 12 covers all other.
First quarter net charges were $388 million compared to a net $294 million charge in the fourth quarter.
The $94 million increase between quarters is primarily due to unfavorable variance in corporate tax items.
We believe our quarterly guidance range of $250 million to $350 million for net charges in the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.
Now I'd like to turn it over to Gary for an update on North America.
Thanks Jeanette and good morning.
It's good to be here with you.
I'd like to give you a brief overview of my area of responsibility Chevron's North America Upstream operations and then discuss recent progress in the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlas acquisition.
Turning to Slide 14.
North America has a tremendous natural resource base and they are close to fully developed infrastructure serving large markets making it an attractive place to do business.
We operate a solid mix of base business assets and major capital projects.
Our portfolio includes both conventional oil and natural gas and unconventional energy sources such as oil sands coalbed methane and shale gas and we continue to grow our portfolio.
Our U.S.
operations are anchored by assets in the Gulf of Mexico California Texas and the Rocky Mountains.
In Canada our activities reached throughout Atlantic Canada the Arctic and the Western oil sands.
In total our North American operations account for about 1/4 of Chevron's production.
During the rest of our time together this morning I want to focus on the Gulf of Mexico and our recent Atlas acquisition.
Let's start with the Gulf of Mexico.
Slide 15.
With more than 60 years of experience operating in the Gulf we've proven that we can explore for and produce oil and gas both safely and in an environmentally sound manner.
We produced 9 billion barrels of oil equivalent as we have progressed development from the shelf into the Deepwater.
We maintain a significant presence throughout the Gulf of Mexico.
We are a leading leaseholder across both the shelf and the Deepwater.
In 2010 we averaged 260 000 barrels a day of oil equivalent making us one of the largest producers in the region.
On Slide 16.
Our Gulf of Mexico portfolio has a wide variety of assets and projects.
These include offshore platforms in shallow and deep water onshore operations gas plants water floods and subsea wells.
We drill in deep and shallow water and operate in high-pressure high-temperature environments.
We have added acreage through recent lease sales which allow us to pursue promising ultra-deep gas opportunities in the shallow waters of the shelf.
Despite the challenging regulatory environment Chevron remains very bullish on the Gulf of Mexico.
Let me tell you about some recent developments.
Turning to Slide 17.
In 2010 our plans were to drill 4 exploration impact wells: Moccasin Coronado Oceanographer and the Buckskin appraisal.
These wells were delayed by the drilling moratorium.
We are ready to get back to work and these wells are our top priority.
We will be able to do so once the new permit requirements are fully understood and permit applications are revised and submitted.
We'll also need for the regulators to establish an efficient method for reviewing and approving what is expected to be a backlog of permit applications.
In late March we received the permit for our Moccasin exploration prospect.
This was the first such exploration permit granted to any operator after the moratorium was lifted.
The rig arrived on site two days after receipt of the permit and we'll soon be drilling.
The Buckskin permit application was submitted on April 18.
We're expecting an approval in the next week or two.
We have also received a permit for our second water injection well at the Tahiti 2 project and drilling is underway.
Chevron currently has 3 deepwater drillships in the Gulf.
Two have returned to work and the third is awaiting a permit for our Buckskin appraisal well.
The good news is that we see activity slowly beginning to ramp up but it's still too early to know what the new normal for pace of permitting and overall activity levels will be.
We're hopeful the administration shares our goal of expedited permitting now that we've established higher performance standards so we can move forward in developing our domestic energy supplies.
Our near-term deepwater drilling program will require the approval of approximately 10 development and exploration plans and approximately 15 drilling permit applications for both development and exploration wells.
These are in various stages of preparation for submittal.
We plan to begin drilling development wells at Jack/St.
Malo in the second half of this year.
This was always the plan.
And to date start-up remains on track.
Should permitting delays persist further into the year the number of wells available at start up could be impacted but we remain committed to previously communicated first oil dates.
I'd now like to provide an update on Atlas.
Turning to Slide 18.
We're very pleased with the Atlas acquisition which closed in mid-February.
These assets are in one of the sweet spots in the Marcellus Shale one of the key shale gas plays in North America.
With the drilling carry provided by our Marcellus joint venture partner Chevron's near-term investment is limited.
Over the next several years the joint venture partner will fund 75% of our drilling costs up to a total of $1.4 billion.
Equally important the acquisition has provided us with a highly skilled workforce with strong operating experience and established land management capabilities.
They are strong organizational synergies with Chevron's existing technical expertise and our global experience with large-scale developments.
We have created a new business unit to manage our acquired assets.
We are making good progress on integration and expect transition activities will continue throughout the year.
Early activities are focused on capturing operational synergies on capital project management and execution and smoothly integrating our financial and IT systems.
We have a very active year planned.
There are currently 9 rigs operating in the Marcellus and we expect to drill a total of 70 wells this year.
We expect 2011 production for both the Marcellus and Antrim shales to average about 115 million cubic feet of gas per day.
Our pace is measured.
We are optimizing our development well programs to lower our costs improve well performance and shrink the time from well completion to hook up and production.
This is a long-term play for us.
We're in a great position as we ramp up for a multiyear drilling program.
It's a great marriage between Atlas' commitment to the resource and Chevron's strong subsurface expertise and capital project discipline.
Admittedly it's very early but all signs are positive.
And we expect to capture the value we identified in our initial evaluation.
Finally the state of Pennsylvania has asked all Marcellus operators to cease delivering produced water associated with shale gas extraction to publicly owned water treatment facilities by May 19.
It was always Atlas' and Chevron's plans to discontinue disposal of surplus-produced water into these facilities by the end of the year 2011.
With this recent request we will accelerate our plan and comply with the May 19 date.
With that I'll now turn it back over to Pat.
Thanks Gary.
We're now on Slide 19.
I'd like to wrap up with a few comments on Chevron's strategic progress during the first quarter of the year.
We've stayed the course with strong safety performance after achieving our safest year ever in 2010.
In the Downstream we continued to progress our portfolio rationalization efforts announcing the sale of the Pembroke Refinery and associated marketing assets in the U.K.
and Ireland.
We completed the sale of our Downstream businesses in the eastern Caribbean and in certain countries in Africa.
We have also announced an agreement to sell our Downstream businesses in Spain.
Additionally in Downstream we reached a final investment decision on the construction of a $1.4 billion lubricants manufacturing facility that will be located at our Pascagoula Mississippi refinery.
This project leverages a strong refinery and proprietary Chevron technology to meet the growing demand for higher-margin premium lubricant.
We had a number of accomplishments in the Upstream.
As Gary discussed we completed the Atlas transaction.
We were awarded 1.5 million acres in Romania further bolstering our global shale gas portfolio.
We continued our exploration success in Western Australia with the Orthrus-2 natural gas discovery and we announced 2 new oil discoveries in the Moho-Bilondo area offshore Republic of Congo.
In addition we signed a Sales and Purchase Agreement with Kyushu Electric for the delivery of LNG from the Gorgon Project.
I'll close by mentioning that our Upstream operations are just under $25 per barrel for the quarter.
Based on preliminary competitor results announced to date we outpaced our nearest competitor by nearly $5.
We've led our peer group on this metric now for 7 consecutive quarters.
We're definitely off to a great start in the first quarter of the year both financially and operationally.
Now that concludes our prepared remarks.
We welcome your questions at this point.
So Sean please open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.
In International Downstream and specifically the unfavorable variances in that area I want to see if you will elaborate a little bit further on the supply mix effect and I think Jeanette attributed to Asia in the period.
That is what were they what products do they involve et cetera.
Just some color if you could.
Well Doug it's really across multiple different products.
And what really happened is there was very rapidly increasing prices in the quarter so at the end of the quarter as we revalued our inventories you see the big negative effect there.
Of that bar $170 million is related to inventories so that is the key driver of that bar.
Okay and also in E&amp;P and specifically on global natural gas there seems to be progress on block A in Cambodia and even more on block B in Vietnam.
So I want to see if we could get an update on those projects and also on Venezuelan gas that is if there's anything to update on Venezuelan gas.
Let me start with Vietnam.
So Vietnam we commenced front-end engineering and design in the first quarter of 2010 and we do expect FID decision later this year.
So that project is moving forward.
Cambodia we're still assessing the Cambodia opportunity and we haven't laid out any near-term milestones for Cambodia.
I'm sorry your last question? Yes.
Venezualan gas is there anything new to report there? No.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Gary two questions one in Atlas.
What's the growth rate you guys are targeting or expecting for the next two to three years given you have your partner carry your cost? And then what kind of expected return that you have in mind on that? The second question is that you do you have some reasonable land position in the Permian Basin? Is there any -- what type of opportunity you have in terms of the nonconventional shale oil in your land position? Also that you guys have some of your competitors start to be more aggressive trying to get into early into the new shale oil play either both in Canada or as well as in the U.S.
but does not seems like that Chevron is not more -- is as aggressive or would that maybe making as much noise as some of your competitors.
Wondering there if there's any insight that you can share here.
Okay.
Thanks for the questions Paul there's a lot there.
So let me see if I can unpack these one at a time starting with Atlas.
It's way too early for us to forecast growth rates.
We are just a couple of months now into taking ownership of those assets.
As I mentioned in my remarks our focus early on is going to be in trying to build a very efficient execution process that's going to allow us to start earning acreage and so we'll have to let that unfold a little bit longer before we can start pinpointing the specific growth objectives for you.
With respect to the Permian Basin we are in a great position there.
In fact just a few weeks ago we celebrated our 5 billionth barrel production milestone from the Permian basin with Chevron and Chevron legacy companies operating out there and we have a tremendous amount of opportunities left.
So we're investing quite aggressively not just in the conventional sorts of plays but also we're looking at some tight oil.
Now this would not be considered shale oil but certainly ultra-tight oil that we feel will represent a nice opportunity for us to continue to add volume in the Permian Basin.
And I think your third question dealt with kind of our views towards Canada and some of the unconventionals.
Yes and I think...
Not just Canada but also U.S.
also Gary.
Okay well that's good that you made that clarification because I think Paul we typically look across North America with the same sort of scrutiny.
We look through the same lenses and we are watching what is unfolding.
We're evaluating opportunities as they come along.
Many of these opportunities that present themselves are quite pricey because there were independents that got involved very early on in some of the land acquisition.
So we're going to continue to look and evaluate opportunities.
But there's nothing in particular that I can report on.
Gary are you guys looking at more on the already identified existing play? Or that trying to look and venture into some untested play which the entry costs are much lower? Well it's a combination Paul.
So as we do our regional analysis to try to understand the geology and the producing mechanisms we're looking across the board.
Some of those lead us very early into possible entry positions early entry positions and others.
People have already acquired the land and we're continuing to look at ways that Chevron can create value in those plays.
Just a final one a short one.
Pat or Jeanette can you tell us at the end of the first quarter from an inventory standpoint are you still under lift over lift or neutral? We're slightly under lifted not too dissimilar from fourth quarter.
Can you remind us then how much? About 1% Paul.
1%? About 1%.
Our next question comes from Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
A question just following on to Gary from the previous question on the Permian.
You've talked about some exciting opportunities in the nonconventional and the conventional.
Can you just talk about what sort of the general -- will those opportunities be able to offset decline? Will you be able to grow the Permian or maintain it? And the same question with regards to your Californian oil position.
As you are aware those two positions the Permian and our heavy oil holdings in California are very very mature assets.
Many of these fields certainly in California are 100 years old and in Permian we're talking about north of 50 years old.
So I would certainly look at it as a win for Chevron if we could hold our production levels that we currently have or at least arrest some of the decline that you see in the normal field decline.
So I think our objective would be to try to replace declining production with some of these new opportunities and try to hold what we have which are quite sizable.
We're nearly 200 000 barrels a day in California and over 70 000 barrels a day in the Permian Basin and we want to try to hold that if possible.
And then a follow-on question on the Gulf the ultra-deep gas in the shallow waters.
When do you think you will test that? Well actually that play is being tested now.
Paul (sic) [Ed] there are some smaller players that -- sized companies that have been involved in this for some time and have pretty much proven that the gas is there.
And we made a move here a year ago and acquired some additional acreage and this is on top of acreage that we already hold by production by producing through some of the shallower zones.
So we actually are participating in an exploration well at present with a third party.
And we hope to get another exploration well in in the 2011 campaign.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I am going to try a couple also.
Pat if I could try a couple for you and then one for Gary to take advantage of him being here.
The quick ones from me.
You've redefined the base I guess as you explained in your prepared remarks.
What does that do to actually change the underlying decline rate? Is there any change there in your guidance? And if I may just bolt on my other one the exploration charges were quite light in the quarter.
Is that just a seasonal issue because it was light Q1 last year also? Or did that reflect less dry hole charges or load overall expenditures? And then I've got a follow-up for Gary please.
Okay.
Doug thanks.
With regard to your first question on the decline rate we're basically in the 3% to 4% range.
There's no change in the guidance that we have given out previously.
We just wanted to be very clear about the change in the base.
We mentioned it in the March meeting we just wanted to be very clear this time through.
And with regard to the second question? Yes so on exploration it was lower for both reasons that you mentioned Doug.
There were lower well write-offs in the first quarter and also lower data acquisition costs.
Okay.
But no real change in the overall trend? No.
I mean it can be very lumpy as you know just given the timing of well write-offs.
That really is normally is the rationale behind any quarter-to-quarter variance.
Okay thank you.
Gary I appreciate you being on the call this morning.
It's really more of a big-picture question.
There's been a lot of talk about changes to drilling subsidies and so-called tax benefits for the industry.
I just wondered if you could give us your take on the current debate what Chevron's potential exposure would be.
I'm guessing that's not significant.
Just the overall perspective that Chevron brings to this.
And if you are in fact having any discussions with the government over how their consultations with industry.
That would be great.
To my knowledge we're not having any specific discussions with the government right now with respect to specifics sorts of incentives that have been in place.
We've taken a general position that certainly when you look at the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico Deepwater royalty relief was a huge success for the government for industry and for the American people.
It accomplished what it set out to do which was to stimulate marginal play get activity in there get proof-of-concept going get investment going and eventually get production that drives a tax and royalty revenue to the government.
So it's been a huge success.
So we've tried to take that message and try to communicate that to everyone that'll listen in the administration that incentives do work.
And when it can spur investment then good things can happen in follow on.
But that's just kind of a general position.
I don't know if that satisfies what you were looking for whether you'd like something else.
Well I'm just curious so I'm not expecting any numbers.
But just an order of materiality if drilling subsidies and tangible drilling costs and so on were revoked if you like you don't I imagine have a significant onshore position that would meaningfully impact you.
I'm just looking for some confirmation if that it would be material or if it'd be less material would it change your investment strategy? Would it alter your investment in the base decline onshore U.S.
Those kind of issues are really what I'm trying to get to.
Right and I think Doug we actually take issue with even using the word subsidy in some of the dialogue that the administration has had because this really is just deductions that have been allowed for our industry as well as a whole host of other industry.
So it really is not a subsidy at all here.
So our dialogue back with the administration really is trying to get clarity around those points.
And really when you think about it particularly around the IDCs [intangible drilling costs] this is something that's been in play for a long period of time for a decade.
It allows you to have an earlier deduction for a risky business that for a smaller player in particular allows them to afford the huge capital outlays that they're putting at risk.
And so I think for smaller companies in particular this is an enormous issue for companies like that.
And really the message we want to get across here on this point is that in order to make more supplies available for the globe and to get energy prices into the more affordable range what you really want to do is incent production incent the domestic supplies not tax them or take away tax deductions that they have currently.
I'm sorry Pat would it change your investment policy or not? Well I think it's a hypothetical.
We don't really want to go there.
I mean obviously we'd have to look at the full economics of what's allowed from a tax code standpoint.
I understand.
Our next question comes from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> Had a couple for Gary.
First Gary markets in Coronado are those Miocene or lower tertiary prospects? Lower tertiary.
LLC</strong> In both cases? Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Can you update us or comment at all on your planned activity in the Duvernay? We're going to start an exploration appraisal program late this fall Mark.
And we have additional wells planned in 2012.
We're going to do some seismic work and use the seismic and well work to start trying to better understand the resource potential in that recent lease acquisition.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just one more if I could regarding Atlas specifically.
How does the activity level envisioned for this year compare to that which Atlas had underway previously? And can you give me a rough idea what some of the individual well metrics look like in terms of IPs or EURs Gary? Okay.
Mark first of all pretty substantial increase year-on-year in terms of activity levels.
But I must say not as high as what Atlas had planned as we have taken control of that operation and started working with the Atlas employee base and the contractor base I think we felt going a little bit slower early on to try to take a more measured approach towards building the execution efficiency that we want was in order.
But we're going to be on the level of about 70 wells this year which is about 5x what they drilled in 2010.
So we're on a very steep curve.
It's very early in the processing of that resource base so we expect to continue to increase our activity levels there but at a very measured pace to make sure that we get it done right the Chevron way.
And on the last question I think it's just too early for us to start putting a dot on the map with respect to IPs or EURs.
It's -- obviously we have expectations for that resource but it's still too early for us to really be able to represent that.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
I was wondering if you could help us with the overall picture on North America Gary.
If we're looking at the returns on capital with the onshore unconventional liquids play and if we're looking kind of deep offshore I guess what's -- where is the -- where are the relative returns? What's the better place to put that incremental dollar to work if you had to be forced to put a dollar at one place or another? Well we have a very diverse portfolio Faisal and we're in the business both for short-term returns as well as longer term positioning ourselves to have good access to resources for the next 10 years and the 10 years after that.
So we kind of use a basket if you will of performance metrics that we use in allocating our capital programs.
So for the -- to pick winners and losers some represent a lower return longer life sort of resources.
The others represent shorter payout higher return sorts of opportunities.
And what we try to do is balance that across a portfolio of investment opportunities.
Okay.
So no but you can't -- I mean you can give me kind of relative view which areas are better than others in terms of the different prospects? No I really can't because we're managing across the North American portfolio and then the North American portfolio is then fit into a global Upstream portfolio.
So I think it would be just too hard to do that right now.
Okay got you.
And if I'm looking at the 15 permit applications that you guys intend to file are those going to all come at once or are they going to come kind of over a period of the next 12 to 24 months? So they're going to come over a period of time.
But the permit applications that I laid out in my opening remarks are going to come sooner versus later.
These are all permits for exploration wells development wells delineation wells associated with the program that we have laid out over the next couple of years.
So we expect to move those permits as swiftly as we can through our shop and into the government shops so that they can start their process of review and approval.
Okay great.
And then if I'm looking at the Lower 48 for you guys for your onshore rig activity both gas and liquids how many rigs do you guys have deployed between those 2 plays and how do you think that'll trend throughout the year? Well I can't answer how many rigs.
It's just a detail that I don't have with me this morning but I can assure you that rig count is higher in 2011 than it was in 2010.
We are increasing activity both onshore and offshore and so those counts are increasing.
Okay.
Great.
I appreciate the time.
Our next question comes from Iain Reed with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I've got a question for Gary and then one for Pat.
Gary on the -- you've been obviously responsible for talking to the regulatory authorities about the Gulf of Mexico drilling.
In terms of the increased oversight and the requirements for testing or BOPs et cetera how much do you think that's going to add to cost on a kind of average exploration and an average development well in your opinion? Well we still haven't I think got at a run rate and a pace Iain that would let me understand what the total revamp system incremental cost might be.
I think the cost that we are -- the change that we most are concerned about is the time required to process permits.
Clearly there's going to be incremental costs.
We know for instance on the recent well designs that we have put in we've had to enhance our casing program.
In some cases running casing all the way back up to the surface whereas in the past that was done in a tie-back fashion.
So we're seeing incremental costs on the casing program with those wells that could be in the range of 10% of the well cost.
But the whole system of inspection certification implementing verifying certifying all that is yet to be sussed out.
We're going to need more time.
Inc.</strong> So have you actually reconsidered drilling certain wells due to this increased requirements that you see now? No it hasn't changed our view towards individual wells are towards the Gulf of Mexico in a broader sense.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And one question about Australia.
You've had further exploration success in the Carnarvon and you showed us up the -- on the Strategy Meeting your resource base there.
I just wonder how close you are now to starting serious work on the fifth train at Gorgon now.
Well I think it's really premature to have us go down that path.
I mean we did show you materials back in March that suggested we've got additional gas supplies available that would support or underpin a fourth train.
But I don't want to get too far out over our skis and thinking beyond that.
I will say it is a hugely prolific basin.
However and so if that becomes -- if we have continued exploration success there then that's something that would certainly would be in our sights.
Obviously brownfield expansions are much more economic than greenfield.
And if there is a way to see ourselves to a fifth train we certainly would like to do that but we're not at that stage of committing to that at this point.
Inc.</strong> Do you think you need more drilling to do that or is it just more interpretation of what you've got? I think there's more drilling and interpretation.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And one final question on your dividend increase I was a bit confused about whether that applied to this quarter or whether that's a second quarter event.
It'll be a second quarter payment.
I mean yes.
Undeclared it has...
Yes.
So second quarter dividend for the second quarter payment will be at $0.78 a share.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So the first quarter dividend is still $0.72? That's correct.
Our next question comes from Allen Good with Morningstar.
I wonder if Gary if you could just explain a little bit on the new business unit that was established with Atlas.
Is that going to include all of Chevron's pre-existing unconventional resources and will that wrap in the global portfolio as well? Thanks for the question Allen and the short answer is no it will not.
Initially the new business unit is going to be focused on the recent acquisitions.
The assets that Atlas had in the portfolio that includes the Marcellus as well as the Antrim production out of Michigan.
We want this unit to get focused early on on those assets to make sure that we have a smooth transition a smooth integration and we get started on the right foot.
We also realize that there is going to be things that we're going to develop and learn from this asset base that's going to be very applicable to some of the shale gas acquisitions the acreage that we picked up over the course of 2010.
So we're going to start working on surrounding this organization with the center of expertise for shale gas that will allow us to leverage those learnings.
But at the same time we want to be very careful that our start in the Marcellus is a good one a safe one a reliable one so that we can build a very sound base there for decades to come.
Sounds good.
I wonder if you could elaborate as well on your water treatment plans? I know that whole situation got lot of press lately any detrimental impact or supposed detrimental impact from the frac-ing fluid and the other water treatment plants.
Just interested in what your plan is there if you're not going to be able to treat it at the public utilities anymore.
Right.
Well eventually we were going to get there any way Allen and we were going to do that through adding a second and eventually growing our frac spreads so that we could drill and complete more wells that's on the natural plan.
And what we're going to do is we're going to accelerate some of that activity so we'll actually add a frac spread to our operational a little earlier.
That will consume much of the surplus water and then the rest of the water that is left over we'll inject in permitted disposal wells.
Okay sounds good.
I appreciate it.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Just hope to get an update on two of your frontier programs the Liberian entrance from late last year and also your plans for Romania from earlier this year.
Yes really we don't have a tremendous amount of update relative to what we said back in March.
We have the three licenses that we acquired.
We have a 70% interest there.
Obviously it's a significant deepwater -- there have been significant deepwater discoveries in the region and we're maturing the prospects.
We plan to drill a well later this year.
Inc.</strong> That's Liberia and on Romania? On Romania it really is drilling as well.
I mean further evaluation seismic activity as the year progresses.
There's not extensive more update that I can provide at that point in time.
Our next question comes from Herman Ladeuix with CLSA.
I have a question about the energy projects in Australia.
I wonder if you can share any thoughts about the impact of the Australian dollar on the cost of Gorgon and potentially on the plans for Wheatstone? Right.
I mean both projects Gorgon and Wheatstone obviously can be -- could be affected by the foreign exchange impact.
But I'd just say both projects and let me just focus in primarily on Gorgon.
It's a global project.
We have a lot of activity that's going on in Australia but there is an awful lot of the procurement activity that is done globally.
So we have currency impacts that are Korean other Asian countries European U.S.
dollar et cetera.
So it is a multicurrency project and it's part of the impact that will occur over multiple years.
Same thing would be true of a Wheatstone Project.
I would just offer though that we have as we go forward on these projects from an FID standpoint we have an awful lot of the cost activity that is well-defined and well-scoped and in many cases fully committed.
So on Gorgon we committed reaffirmed back in March that we were on schedule and on cost for the Gorgon Project.
On Wheatstone we intend to go to FID later this year.
We have the contracts out for bid at this point in time and we should have a firm estimate of what that project cost will be at that point in time.
But Jeanette should we still think about the $37 billion on that I mean given that the fact that not only the Australian but other currencies have moved cost substantially at the same the FID? Yes you should still consider to think about the $37 billion.
Remember that's over a 60-month construction period and the dollar moves up and down and there's an awful lot of variation that can occur.
So we're early days into these.
We're only about 20 months or so into the Gorgon Project so there's a lot of time left as well.
I'm not showing any further questions in the queue at this time.
All right.
I guess that we'll close off here and let me wrap up and just say I thank everybody's time and attention here this morning and the participation on the call.
I particularly want to ask -- applaud the folks who asked the questions because that helps get more clarification out there.
Thank you everybody.
I appreciate your interest in Chevron.
Goodbye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That concludes Chevron's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you Sean.
Welcome to Chevron's second quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are George Kirkland Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Upstream and Gas; and Jeanette Ourada General Manager Investor Relations.
Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the second quarter of 2011.
We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The company's second quarter earnings were $7.7 billion or $3.85 per diluted share.
Comparing the second quarter 2011 to the same quarter a year earlier our earnings were up 43%.
Upstream benefited from higher crude oil prices and Downstream benefited from improved margins.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was over 19%.
Our debt ratio at the end of June was 9.1%.
In the second quarter we had share repurchases of $1 billion.
Effective for the third quarter and reflecting the strength in crude prices and of our current near-term outlook we are increasing the upper end of our target range on share repurchases to $2 billion.
In the third quarter we expect share repurchases of $1.25 billion.
Turning to Slide 4.
Cash generated from operations was nearly $11 billion during the second quarter.
This is a new record for the company topping last quarter's performance.
Year-to-date we have used this strong cash flow in a manner completely consistent with our established financial priorities.
We raised the dividend in the second quarter by 8%.
We've funded a strong capital program and made some modest acquisitions.
Both the organic and the inorganic components of these outlays are poised to earn attractive returns and drive future growth for the company.
We've also continued to strengthen our balance sheet and we've returned surplus cash to our shareholders in the form of share buybacks.
At quarter end our cash balances totaled nearly $18 billion.
This puts us in a net cash position of $6.5 billion.
Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 5.
I'll compare results of the second quarter 2011 with the first quarter 2011.
As a reminder our earnings release compares second quarter 2011 with the same quarter a year ago.
Second quarter earnings were $7.7 billion $1.5 billion higher than the first quarter.
Starting on the left side of the chart Upstream earnings were up $894 million driven by higher crude oil realizations.
Downstream results increased $422 million between quarters benefiting from improved margins.
The variance in the other bar reflects a favorable swing in corporate tax items and lower corporate charges.
On Slide 6 our U.S.
Upstream earnings for the second quarter were $501 million higher than the first quarter's results.
Combined crude oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $420 million.
U.S.
crude realizations increased 17% between consecutive quarters well above the 8% increase in the average spot price of West Texas Intermediate.
As a reminder our U.S.
crude realizations are tied primarily to Mars Louisiana Light Sweet and San Joaquin Valley heavy crudes all of which traded at premiums to WTI during the second quarter.
Natural gas realizations also improved increasing 8% between quarters slightly higher than the 5% increase in the average Henry Hub bid week.
Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $55 million between periods reflecting higher costs related to maintenance activities across multiple assets including more workovers.
The higher expenses also reflect a full quarter of operations for our new Marcellus assets.
The other bar is comprised of a number of unrelated items including gains on several small asset sales and higher volumes due to an additional day between quarters.
Turning to Slide 7.
International Upstream earnings were up $393 million compared with the first quarter.
Higher oil and natural gas realizations benefited earnings by $875 million.
Average liquids realizations increased 12% in line with the increase in average Brent Spot Prices.
Natural gas realizations contributed $70 million of the variance improving 9% between quarters.
This improvement was driven by price increases in our primary Asian gas markets which have crude-linked pricing components.
Higher operating expense decreased earnings $205 million.
The increase was spread across multiple geographic areas and included higher environmental remediation expense and higher maintenance and fuel costs.
You'll recall that last year on our third quarter call we highlighted our expectation of a 2011 full year increase in reported operating expense of approximately $1 billion due to a new Indonesian agreement where we sell oil and purchase natural gas.
Previously we handled this through a volume exchange.
There is no bottom line earnings impact and no impact on production.
Year-to-date our reported operating expense number is up $1.3 billion.
Of that $900 million is from the new Indonesian agreement.
At current year-to-date prices we would expect the full year impact to be approximately $1.8 billion.
Moving to the next bar.
Higher exploration expense reduced earnings by $140 million primarily due to a well write-off in the U.K.
and higher G&amp;G cost associated with increased exploration activity.
The other bar reflects a number of items including unfavorable tax effects and higher DD&amp;A partially offset by a favorable swing in foreign exchange and higher listings.
The second quarter had a foreign exchange gain of about $30 million compared to a loss of about $115 million in the first quarter.
These foreign exchange effects have minimal impact on cash.
They are primarily balance sheet translation effects.
Moving to Slide 8 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil-equivalent production.
Production decreased 66 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Higher prices reduced volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts during the second quarter decreasing production about 8 000 barrels per day.
As a reminder last quarter we began using Brent to calculate a price effect rate as it is more closely tied to our international realizations.
Average Brent Spot Prices increased about $12 per barrel between quarters which resulted in about a 700 barrel per day volume reduction for each dollar increase in Brent.
Recall that over a range of prices this rate is not linear.
As prices rise the production impact per dollar change in Brent decreases.
Moving to the next bar.
Base business production decreased 66 000 barrels per day largely driven by maintenance activity in Kazakhstan Thailand and the Gulf of Mexico and lower cost recovery in Trinidad.
This bar also reflects a positive impact from a full quarter of Marcellus production and absence of first quarter's weather impacts.
Incremental production for major capital projects benefited second quarter production by 8 000 barrels per day primarily driven by less downtime in Canada and continued ramp ups at Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico and Tombua-Landana in Angola.
George will discuss our current year production outlook in a few minutes.
Turning to Slide 9.
U.S.
Downstream earnings improved $122 million in the second quarter.
Indicator margins strengthened between quarters increasing earnings by $215 million.
Refining and marketing margins for both the Gulf Coast and West Coast improved relative to last quarter benefiting from higher seasonal demand for gasoline.
Refined product margins also showed some strength early in the quarter as supplies in some areas were affected by refinery maintenance.
However both these factors lessened and margins generally slipped as the quarter progressed.
Operating expenses reduced earnings by $35 million driven mainly by higher third-party credit card fees and transportation costs.
The other bar consists of several unrelated items including lower volumes partly offset by improved chemicals and trading results.
On Slide 10 international Downstream earnings were also higher this quarter increasing $300 million from first quarter's results.
Refining and marketing margins rose in all key regions benefiting earnings by $165 million.
Timing effects represented a $155 million positive earnings variance between quarters.
First quarter had a negative $195 million impact with a smaller impact of negative $40 million in the second quarter.
The primary driver was favorable mark-to-market effects on derivatives tied to underlying physical positions.
Negative foreign currency effects impacted earnings by $55 million.
Second quarter's foreign exchange loss was about $95 million compared to the first quarter loss of $40 million.
The other bar includes a number of unrelated items including improved trading and chemical results partly offset by lower volumes.
Slide 11 covers all other.
Second quarter net charges were $183 million compared to a net $388 million charge in the first quarter a decrease of $205 million between periods.
A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $151 million benefit to earnings.
Corporate charges were $54 million lower in the second quarter.
Year-to-date corporate charges were $571 million.
We believe our quarterly guidance range of $250 million to $350 million for net charges in the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.
George is now going to provide an update on our Upstream operations.
George? Thank you Jeanette.
It's good to be back to discuss Upstream performance and our production outlook for the remainder of the year.
I'd like to begin by looking at our second quarter competitive position on earnings markets.
Please turn to Slide 13.
In the second quarter Upstream margins were approximately $29 per barrel another excellent quarter reinforcing the strength of our oil-weighted portfolio and the high quality of our assets.
Based on competitor results disclosed this week we continue to lead our peers in this key metric.
In the second quarter we are nearly $8 per barrel ahead of our nearest competitor and over $10 per barrel higher than the peer group average.
In addition we have now held the top position for 8 consecutive quarters.
As you would expect I'm very pleased with our leading position and our ability to sustain this performance over the past 2 years.
While we are discussing margins I'd like to make a brief comment on operating expense.
Excluding fuel our year-to-date OpEx is very consistent with our recent historical performance.
This is a positive indicator for maintaining our peer-leading margins.
Through the first half of the year our return on capital employed was 32%.
We've been making smart investment decisions for a long period of time and we have now achieved the leading position in our peer group.
We continue to deliver superior financial performance and to lead our competition on key operational and financial metrics.
Now I'll turn to production.
Please turn to Slide 14.
The first half production averaged 2.73 million barrels a day at the Brent price of $111 per barrel.
Based on the year-to-date results and a Brent price of $111 per barrel our revised full year production outlook is 2.73 million barrels per day.
Adjusted to a $79 per barrel this equates to 2.76 million barrels per day a reduction from our original outlook of 30 000 barrels per day.
This revised outlook is a result of 2 primary drivers: first a recent incident in Thailand caused a key third-party gas pipeline to be shut down; and second a slower-than-planned ramp up of the Perdido project in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
The full year production impact of these 2 items is about 30 000 barrels per day and they are approximately split between the 2.
Outside these items our major capital projects in total are performing as planned.
Agbami in Nigeria SGI/SGP in Kazakhstan and Frade in Brazil continue to deliver excellent results.
Our base business performance has continued to be strong offsetting the impacts of weather challenges earlier in the year.
We have strong momentum entering the second half of the year and we remain well positioned to deliver long-term growth.
Now turning to Slide 15.
We first showed you this slide last year.
Through 2014 we forecast production to grow by approximately 1% per year.
And starting in 2014 as our Australia LNG investments come on line and begin to ramp up toward full capacity this growth rate is expected to increase to between 4% and 5%.
Our long-term outlook remains unchanged.
With the strength and scale of these projects and the depth of our portfolio we expect our production to grow to 3.3 million barrels per day by 2017.
Our growth projects are on track.
We're advancing the queue.
We're reaching critical milestones and are well-placed to deliver consistent growth and performance over the long term.
Now let's review our 2011 exploration plans on Slide 16.
We have an active year of exploration.
We plan to invest over $2 billion which includes the drilling of about 60 wells.
We've returned to work in the Gulf of Mexico.
We currently have 3 rigs drilling in the Deepwater an appraisal well at Buckskin an exploration well at Moccasin and a development well on the Tahiti 2 project.
There is no doubt this past year has been a challenge for the Gulf of Mexico.
I'm pleased with the recent progress we've made which is a testament to the hard work of many people to get both Chevron and the industry back to work.
In addition to our Deepwater activity we're also drilling ahead at Bear's Hump.
This is a key test of the ultra-deep Wilcox gas play on the Gulf of Mexico shelf.
This well is also noteworthy as we are drilling it from an onshore location.
We think there's still a lot of potential on the Gulf and it's not all located in the Deepwater.
Chevron is well positioned in the lower tertiary play both in the Deepwater and on the shelf.
In Australia we have 2 more exploration wells planned this year.
One of them is an offset to the Acme discovery we announced last year.
We've also been active in acquiring additional acreage picking up 2 new leases near Barrow Island.
The Carnarvon Basin is a key focus area for Chevron with 10 discoveries over the last 18 months.
We have an aggressive exploration program plan to underpin future expansions at Gorgon and Wheatstone.
In Brazil we plan to drill a well later this year in the free salt section beneath our Frade Field.
If successful we'll be in a great position to take advantage of our existing production facilities.
We also have some exciting prospects in Liberia China Poland and Canada that we've discussed before.
We plan to start drilling in all of these areas later this year.
Next on Slide 17 I'll highlight some of our recent activities in the Marcellus Shale.
In February of this year we closed on the acquisition of Atlas Energy and are currently working to complete the integration of these assets into our North America business.
In May we announced the acquisition of assets from Chief Oil and Gas and Tug Hill.
Through these transactions we added another 228 000 net acres of high-quality Marcellus Shale to our existing footprint.
Largely focused in Southwestern Pennsylvania the acreage includes over 30 000 acres of rich gas Marcellus in Marshall County West Virginia.
This expansion of our shale gas portfolio gives us additional high-quality resources as well as strong synergies with existing operations.
The acquired assets currently include 22 wells that are on production and an additional 34 wells waiting on completion or pipeline hookup.
Combined with Atlas this acreage is estimated to hold 14 trillion cubic feet of natural gas resources and is aligned with our strategy to pursue opportunities with long-term organic growth potential.
Next let's review progress in other key projects on the next slide.
Expansion in the Caspian Pipeline has begun.
This project will increase capacity to 1.4 million barrels per day from a current level of 730 000 barrels per day.
It is a critical step forward in enabling a further expansion of our Tengiz Field in Kazakhstan.
The project will be implemented in 3 phases with capacity increasing progressively from the period of 2012 to 2015.
At Gorgon we continue to make good progress on our critical path items and they remain on track.
We've begun horizontal directional drilling for pipeline installation and we also started development drilling operations.
Gorgon is presently 25% complete.
At Wheatstone we received additional environmental approvals and are selectively appealing certain conditions.
In addition we announced earlier this week that we have executed LNG sales and purchase agreements with Tokyo Electric for delivery of up to 3.1 million tons per annum of offtake.
This is a significant milestone as we work toward a final investment decision in the second half of 2011.
In the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we're making progress at Jack/St.
Malo where we've cut first steel on the hull and the top sides.
And at Angola LNG we're beginning to commission the utility systems and plan to start up subsequent process units throughout the rest of 2011.
We're making good progress here and expect first production early next year.
In addition we've acquired more than 1 million acres of shale gas leasehold in Bulgaria.
This continues to grow our position in eastern Europe.
Around the world we have now acquired nearly 5 million net acres of shale gas assets since late 2010.
In summary we've had a great quarter and a great first half of the year and are on track to deliver long-term growth.
With that I'd like now to turn it back to Pat.
Okay.
Thank you George.
Turning now to Slide 19.
I'd like to close out our prepared remarks with some highlights of Chevron's strategic progress during the quarter.
George just gave you an update on recent progress in our Upstream business.
We are back to drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and we continue to execute our major capital projects and to add new resource opportunities to our portfolio.
In Downstream we received government approval to proceed with the sale of our refining and marketing assets in Ireland and the U.K.
including the Pembroke Refinery.
We expect to close that sale next week.
We are on track and progressing well with our Downstream restructuring plan.
During the quarter we completed several small asset sales in 3 Central American countries as well as in China and North America.
And finally I'd like to make a few comments about the current discussions in Washington.
Chevron is proud to be a healthy American company.
We believe healthy companies are the cure for a sick economy.
In the U.S.
Chevron directly employs nearly 25 000 people with good jobs and good salaries.
Indirectly we support another 150 000 jobs.
We plan to invest over $7 billion in the U.S.
this year to expand energy supplies which creates jobs and generates revenue for federal state and local treasuries.
We're proud to be part of an industry that is indispensable to economic growth and competitiveness.
We want the opportunity to compete on a level playing field both here at home and around the globe.
And we look forward to working constructively under stable predictable fiscal and regulatory policies to build a shared prosperity for America and for our shareholders.
So that concludes our prepared remarks.
We now welcome your questions.
And Sean I'd ask that you open the lineup.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Maybe a first one on CapEx.
$7.8 billion I guess includes the Marcellus acquisitions.
Can you talk about maybe where you see underlying CapEx for the year against your plans and acquisition CapEx as well? It's a good question.
You noted exactly correctly that the uptick we had in the second quarter did relate to some coring up of our Marcellus properties.
That wasn't a planned item but we saw the opportunity and took advantage of it.
We don't anticipate being substantially different than where we set as a target $26 billion.
We're halfway through the year.
We're about 52% spent and that looks to be in the reasonable range.
And then maybe a question for George.
There've been some high-profile cost at runs in Australia.
We all know that.
You're taking a modular approach to Gorgon and I think you used the same modular approach on your SGI/SGP successful project in Kazakhstan.
I mean is that modular approach why you think Chevron is going to deliver Gorgon on budget where others have failed? And perhaps when do you think you'll be able to with confidence say that you're going to hit that project on budget? Ed it is a great question.
First we did not use a modular approach in Tengiz on SGI/SGP.
We are moving to a more modular approach for the future growth project in the next Tengiz expansion and it's related to just what we've seen in Gorgon and what we see to be happening in Wheatstone.
It's a wise thing to move ours and use ours in multiple places and the good -- only where you can do that is go to modules.
So we are planning modules significantly large modules on Gorgon.
We will be using modular construction to I think a little bit lesser extent on Wheatstone but we'll be still driving towards modules there.
And future growth will definitely move to modules as best we can in recognition of transportation infrastructure.
But great question.
And the second half of the question was really around -- with this modular approach at some point you'll see how productive the Australian workers are in terms of being able to put these together and you'll have some idea of where Gorgon CapEx will come in.
When do you think that point will be reached? Well we've -- so far in the case of Gorgon about -- have about $25 billion in contracts in hand.
The ones that are related to outside of Australia we have a very good handle on them.
We think that in itself mitigates the total cost.
I don't expect to really have a good feel for productivity in Australia for at least another 12 months.
I think at that point in time we'll have a good handle on the productivity situation.
We're trying to put of course everything in place to guarantee good productivity on Barrow Island.
We're doing really quality housing providing great opportunity for good food.
Doing all those things to make sure we have a good workforce that on-site and minimize issues for them both from a safety like I say and a living basis.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
George on that trip we were chatting about California and you said you'd go back to your people and ask them for I think it's the third or fourth time if you're missing something there.
Can you update me on your latest thoughts about California developments their potential there and so on? Paul we have went back.
We're always looking at opportunities particularly around where we have a big position.
For those on the phone we have about 250 000 acres in the southern California area of San Joaquin.
We do produce from Monterey in southern California.
We produce about 45 000 barrels a day in the Monterey.
We are still doing some work Paul in that area.
We have worked some of it in the upper part of the Monterey in the diatomite we hold a lot of acreage in that and we've seen success there.
We've seen that in the Lost Hills.
We are looking at some of the deeper Monterey and we'll probably have a test of that in one of the areas we presently hold.
At this point in time we have not changed our overall view of the Monterey relative to our other opportunities in the world.
Which is that it's relatively less interesting than some of the other developments you can see obviously.
We don't see it yet competing.
We're going to do additional work there.
We typically in all our areas where we have long-standing production we're always looking for ways to increase the productivity of that resource increase the recovery.
And we see some cases of oil in plays that we're going to test.
Now it's once again it's going to compete down the road for capital against our other opportunities around the world.
Understood George.
And can you just be specific on why it's less attractive than other opportunities and also mention if there's any permitting issues for you there? I'll answer the second one first.
We have not gone far enough to have the permitting issues so we don't have any permitting issues.
At this point we just don't see the volumetric production that delivers enough barrels at a rate to make it economically competitive.
But we've got more work to do.
We're going to do a test that will tell us a little bit more about one of these lower formation areas in the Monterey.
So more to come on that.
I'm sure we'll have some feedback on that additional feedback even in the March time period of next year at our analyst meeting.
Interesting.
And then just a follow-up to finish off on the U.S.
You've obviously highlighted the expansion in the Marcellus very briefly.
Is this any surprise around what you paid? Secondly if you intend to continue adding acreage you've highlighted in the past that you are relatively underweight U.S.
gas as an advantage.
Are you changing that view? And thirdly if you could briefly comment on whether or not you're interested in unconventional oil in other parts of the U.S.
such as the Bakken and the Eagle Ford and I'll leave it there.
A lot of good questions.
I'm going to ask Jeanette to help me or Pat if I don't answer them all.
And so I may get a little bit of prompting there.
We're trying to put together in the Marcellus a nice-sized portfolio and we've done a couple of steps on that.
I think we're very close to putting together what we want in the Marcellus.
There will be additional additions small additions there where it makes sense synergistically between one acreage we hold in these two and is there something in between.
So we'll do that but I think we have pretty well put together our Marcellus position.
My goal is to be able to really lay out what all we have done in the Marcellus and give everyone a really good update in March next year.
I think by that period of time we will have all the pieces pretty well put into place.
We'll have our integration well in hand both integrating Atlas and the Chief piece.
So I think at that point we really will be able to give everyone a full overview of what we see where we stand how it all fits together.
But I really don't feel comfortable in doing that until probably March.
March should be the right time for us.
Understood.
Is there a price on the incremental 220s then? At this point in time I'm not going to share that.
What we will do -- what I am committed to do is we'll provide you a lot more price information when we bring all the pieces together.
And the other question is unconventional.
Unconventional.
From a technical point of view I do like the -- and I've always said I like what we call light shale oil.
We like it.
I will tell you at this point in time we've seen the pricing of the acreage to be well frankly just to be high and impacts the economic viability of buying it.
We have done lots of technical work looking for other opportunities around the world that are similar.
We're always trying to take knowledge gained in one cloaked location and find similar opportunities around the world.
I really don't have any I want to point to at this point.
But we are doing work on there.
And Paul like everything else it always gets back.
We don't just want barrels or MCFs.
We want those barrels that deliver strong earnings strong returns.
And if it's inorganic and it's producing we find it very difficult in most cases to go ante up that money.
Our strategy continues to be looking for early entry looking for exploration opportunities.
We think the value the major value we create is getting it early using our expertise and from a geotechnical side from the reservoir engineering side and the project side to create value and then of course operate it well.
We think that's the way we really create the value for the shareholder.
So you're telling me it's very unlikely you'll make a major acquisition.
That's correct.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
I have a few questions.
One of the bigger-look question.
I know relative to peers Chevron has a significant investment for future production growth that does not yet contribute to your earnings as would be expected.
But can you share with me maybe the amount of your current employed that is not yet generating income or impacting the numerator in your ROCE calculation? I'd say I mean a good place to be would be somewhere between 25% and 30% would be a good benchmark for you at this point in time.
Okay.
And that's clearly high over time if you had a time sequence that's really a higher percentage.
Is that fair? Certainly as we move into the 30% range it is.
But I would say typically if I look over the last 5 to 7 years or so that 25% to 30% -- low 30% range is typically the bandwidth that we have operated within.
Okay.
And a second question for George and maybe more pointed than Paul's.
I mean clearly excitement's been building on the Utica shale opportunity.
And then something that's a bit of a focus this morning with Chesapeake's release and conference call.
I know and I believe Chevron has 600 000 acres that you disclosed that has Utica oil shale exposure.
But you didn't call that out in Slide 17.
Maybe you could discuss how you're thinking about activity there and play potential into 2012? Okay.
Well let me first say we believe it's a little bit too soon to conclude on the potential of the Utica.
We've got a good acreage position in the Utica from the Atlas acquisition.
We're going to do what we do everywhere in the world.
We're going to evaluate that.
And the only the way we can evaluate it is we're going to have to drill some wells and test performance.
So it's something for the future but it's like you say too early at this point in time to I think hype it.
But it was -- is it a partial driver in your Atlas acquisition which is largely perceived as a Marcellus gas acquisition? It was not a major driver in that.
It was too unproven at that time to establish a lot of the value.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
George if I may take advantage of you being on the phone with a couple of questions and I have a follow-up for Pat very quickly.
Can you give us an update just generally as to how you see the latest permitting situation in the Gulf of Mexico.
And just bolting on to maybe a general update as to when you would expect to really be able to ramp up your activity there.
That's my first.
I've got a couple of follow-ups if I may.
Okay.
I'll try to give you a little bit more than we gave in the comments.
To start off all 3 of our Deepwater rigs are currently working.
We're on Moccasin which is a nice exploration well and we're on in Buckskin.
We're on Tahiti.
Tahiti we are about to get into the development drilling stage there.
We've drilled a couple of injection wells all of which was needed for our second phase development of Tahiti.
On the permits themselves so we've got permits for those for drilling at those locations.
Near-term drilling program will require approval for us of about 10 development and exploration plans and 15 drilling permits.
So that's what we're in the process of pursuing.
We have received the permit for Coronado which is our next exploration well.
And we have also received an approved revised exploration plan for Oceanographer as well as for our initial development drilling operations at Jack/St.
Malo.
And we're continuing to progress approvals for Big Foot development drilling.
We've got a lot of applications for permit to drill have been submitted so at this point in time we seem to be able to move things in there through the permit process to allow us to progress our projects and our exploration plans.
When do you expect [indiscernible] ? In recognition of that I'll even give you a little -- we have 2 additional Deepwater rigs expected to arrive later this year.
The Deepwater Discovery India and the Pacific Santa Ana.
And these 2 rigs really are focused on drilling initial development wells for our major capital projects at Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot.
And that will allow us to really start.
Maybe a little bit of catch up on what time we lost because we lost over a year in time.
So we're trying to -- and you can't recapture time but we're trying to put ourselves in a position to make sure those projects come on and we have the developable wells to produce into them as they move into production stage.
Broadly would you say things are getting -- easier is not the word I'm looking for but less onerous perhaps in terms of the actual permit? Do you think it's BOEMR is  actually starting to move things through a little quicker? Any perspective would be appreciated.
I think the biggest contributor to the improvement in getting permits is really I think people are now better understanding what is required.
The requirements to get a permit the technical requirements what must be done to make progress to the point of getting the permit is much better determined and understood and that's big.
Once you know what you've got to do then you can attack it and you can deliver once again a document that meets the needs.
Jumping around the world to this very quickly to Liberia.
Can you give us an update as to -- just remind us what you're working interest is there when you would expect to really start the activity to pick up and just a general kind of update of your expectations.
My memory is working interest is in 80% level for us on 3 large blocks there.
I' going to ask somebody to double check that for me as I go on.
We're very pleased with that.
We see this is the Cretaceous trend that we've seen in West Africa.
It's been very successful in Ghana.
We're moving forward with our first well to be drilled to be spudded.
And my expectation is it'll be in the fourth quarter.
But we are on schedule for that.
We've lined up a rig.
So we're in I think good stead to drill the first well or start drilling the first well this year.
Pleased with that.
We see from a geological point of view we see a large number of prospects.
But once again remember this is exploration.
It's a long ways from any well that's in close proximity where we'll be drilling.
So a significant distance but it looks good at this point from the seismic point.
So we'll know a lot more after we drill the first well.
Last one for me is I guess a follow-up to Paul's question.
California fairly modest I guess overall position the context of Chevron's scale.
But my recollection was that you had sold a lot of your Deep rights about 10 years ago to Occidental.
Can you confirm if that was the case on and how much running room have you actually have in the deeper Santos Monterey area? In the Santos area we do not have a lot of acreage.
I don't have that number right in front of me but that is not where our position is.
We'll have to get that as a follow-up either I guess next quarter or between our IR folks.
I don't have that number right with me but we are not positioned large there.
I just got some help on that in Liberia we're 70%.
We have a 70% working interest just to correct that.
My very quick follow-up was for Pat.
Pat your net cash position your share buybacks are still very modest.
Just some context as to why you're not yet just choosing to get a little more aggressive and I'll leave it at that.
Yes Doug our belief here is and I think we said this when we reinstated the share repurchase program we deliberately put flexibility on it in terms of time and in terms of dollars.
And we want to be able to sustain the share repurchase program over a long period of time and be able to live through any sort of uncertainties.
So our approach is perhaps a little bit more modest than you might think but our objective there is to be able to have something that we can sustain over time.
I think you would agree with us here that there's a fair amount of uncertainty out there.
Certainly what we saw in terms of the U.S.
GDP this morning China GDP has been dampening a little bit still very strong but dampening a little bit.
We've clearly got uncertainty in terms of the U.S.
policy environment.
And all we are trying to acknowledge is that there can be -- while we're favorably inclined about prices over the medium term and long term there can be excursions south of that for short periods of time.
And we just want to be able to once we go into the share repurchase program keep it on track and sustained.
So that really is our philosophy.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
George I had a question about the margin -- Upstream margin and strong capture rate you're getting there.
I know that part of the contribution to your move into the #1 position was from a lot of the new projects that have been brought online over the last couple of years.
And so my question is are you expecting to move past cost recovery mode in any of these projects that are in PSCs that maybe would ratchet down the margin capture? Or then conversely would you expect the margin capture to actually continue moving forward? Jason it's a good question.
It's got an awful lot of moving parts.
Let me start there.
Yes we are moving on some cases on the PSCs to the point where we have much of the capture of the initial investments.
It's complicated by recognizing that in many cases as we move to that point we also move into later phases like in Agbami 2.
We moved into a second phase of development which continues some of that capture.
So you have those and recognize we also have new projects coming on.
An example and actually in the same area of the world Usan will come on next year in Deepwater Nigeria.
So we've got another one that way.
So these ins and outs I would tell you that the quality of the new assets coming on they're very strong in their earnings power.
They have very strong earnings per barrel.
What I can't tell you is I really don't have -- it's hard for me to get a view of my competitors and what's happening in their portfolio and I wish I could get a better handle on that myself which I'm sure all of -- as a matter of fact maybe that's a question as I see some of you you'll help me on that.
Maybe if I could shift to the exploration program in Australia.
Unlike some of the other operators in the area you've really kind of kept the drill bit in front of the marketing activity.
And I know that your view has been that you have more than enough gas for the 5 trains that are either sanctioned at Gorgon or about to be sanctioned at Wheatstone.
If you think about the resource base what do you actually think you could underpin now in terms of numbers of trains that 5 million tons per annum? And in a blue sky case do you think you'd be able to do a train a year for 10 years? Well let me start.
We've got 3 trains at Gorgon.
To get everybody oriented we've got 3 trains at Gorgon that are a little over 15 million tons.
We have almost 9 million tons 8.9 million tons in the 2 trains at Wheatstone.
On the case of Gorgon my confidence of having resource for the fourth train is high.
We still I think and we are drilling lots of exploration wells.
I think we've got to continue that to have the confidence in additional trains.
Barrow Island we will not be able to put anything on beyond 5 trains and 5 trains is like I say is that's all that's going to fit there.
We have a lot more space in the case of the Ashburton North side.
Wheatstone can probably handle 6 trains.
Confidence level is good in the 2 trains that we're moving close to FID and we have discoveries in the 205 block there and that's the Clio-1 2 3 discoveries and Acme.
And now we're doing Acme follow-ups.
So we're trying to prove up a quantity of gas there that would give us a lot of confidence in a third train.
Remember the other one unique thing that we're trying to do and I think are doing and you can see it through our participation in the first 2 trains for the Apache KUFPEC.
We're trying to build a hub there that will allow other third parties to bring in gas and to do it in an economical manner.
So we're always trying to provide that opportunity set also.
And I think that gives us confidence that that combination of our drilling plus the more open access will allow for additional trains to be built at Wheatstone the Antelope site.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
I have 2 questions for George and one really quick follow-up for Pat.
George I suppose that when you initially invest in Atlas Energy as partners you see it as a great resource base partly maybe is that using it as a beachhead to learn about the shale gas technology and how to operate there.
But shale gas and the shale oil that they are quite different from one play to another.
So do you think that the position data that already allowed you to have sufficient amount of learning experience to fully understand and expand that knowledge base to the rest of your global portfolio or that you may need beachhead in other play? Okay.
Let me -- having access to Atlas for us is very important.
It's the process of actually doing makes a lot of difference.
We see challenges in the way monies are spent presently in the unconventional gas.
One that are -- the first one is we don't believe it takes as many frac stages.
You don't have to frac as much of that formation if you truly understand the sweeter spots if you will of that formation.
So the only way I think we can prove that and really grow that expertise and become better and more economically doing it is by doing it.
So we're trying to do that of course and then what we want to do is to be able to apply that technology that technical ability to other places in the world.
We see that as particularly important for us as we move into eastern Europe because we don't see the infrastructure capability by service providers to be nearly as available as what we see in the U.S.
So that's how we tie the 2 of those together.
So we want to get technically a whole lot smarter and we want to use what we learn there and be able to apply it around the world.
Sure.
I fully understand.
But George my question is that given that this formation is somewhat different from what we understand.
So having a substantial position in Marcellus is that what you believe already give you sufficient of the learning curve or that you need exposure to other areas? That's my question.
Well I think the case of Marcellus the Marcellus was the quality of the Marcellus that took us there and the proximity to market.
We had the opportunity on scale relatively early entry quality.
All of that took us there at this point in time.
Europe is once again a combination of that with a lot less geotechnical information being known.
We've got to drill some wells.
We've done G&amp;G.
We will be drilling our first well or first wells in Poland this year and we'll start answering the questions.
Drill the well get more technical information.
We'll eventually have to be frac-ing wells.
We've got to go through that Paul and that's what's going to answer the question.
We're willing to get scale in Europe initially where if it works you've got the scale to make up a really nice business.
And remember the entry cost in Europe was much different than what the bets are in the United States.
Okay.
All right.
The second quick one is that for George is Bulgaria.
I presume that you just acquired the acres so you're going to do seismic this year and we should not expect a first well until late 2012.
I don't expect -- I'm not even sure we're going to get the seismic started this year.
I really am looking more at the seismic next year.
And this is so recent I think it's a little early to even talk about when the first well.
But we'll have more on that in the oncoming quarters.
Okay.
And then a quick one for Pat.
In the past I think from your accounting standpoint Chevron the Gulf of Mexico oil realization is based on a 1-month lag.
I just want to -- curious if that's still the case here.
Yes I mean I think if I understood that correctly you're asking about the pricing lag out of Mexico Gulf of Mexico? That's correct.
Yes that's correct.
You are still on the 1-month lag.
Yes.
Your next question comes from Kate Minyard with JPMorgan.
Just a quick question on your buyback program.
I realized you talk a little bit about it earlier.
But when you're looking at buybacks versus dividends and the redeployment of excess cash or that return to shareholders it looks like your average diluted share count hasn't really declined over the last several quarters despite the buyback program.
So I was curious as to what factors you're weighing given that you want the buyback program to be sustainable as well as you look at distributing that cash through buybacks versus through dividends.
That's a good question Kate.
You're right.
There hasn't been as much of a reduction in the outstanding shares.
And that's simply been a function of the exercises of some stock options by annuitants in their 10-year window.
And we've taken a look at that and it's been obviously driven by how well our share price is done particularly in the first quarter and second quarter here.
When we peg our share repurchase program we don't really have knowledge to take that other effect into account.
So when we talk about our share repurchase program we really are talking about the amount that we have control over.
And therefore the $1 billion or now upping it at $1.25 billion in the quarter here.
And in terms of the dividend play versus the share repurchase play I think I've been on record many times now in talking about our financial priorities and the first one really is to sustain and grow the dividend.
And we did show a dividend increase here in the second quarter of 8%.
So that's the primary distribution to shareholders that we pursue.
Share repurchases are a much more discretionary piece and we peg that to what we consider the short-term medium-term and longer-term outlook of cash generation -- surplus cash generation for the company.
Okay sure.
And then if I could just quickly ask on the PNZ.
It looks like production's kind of come down over the last say 2 2.5 years.
Just curious as to whether that's entitlement related or if it's decline and then whether the outlook would be that we'd look for an increase as the flooding program kind of gets more underway.
The PNZ is that the concession there is a tax and royalty.
So it's not a PSC so there's no effect -- price effect there and it has declined.
Existing deals are on a decline not a lot but a little bit of decline.
The upside the future is really about the steam flood where we see opportunities that could be on a gross basis.
We could end up with a production gain there on new production up to 500 000 barrels a day.
It's a big opportunity there.
We have just for those maybe a little bit of information.
We just recompleted into the second Eocene -- or the first Eocene V zone recently and should start our steam flood test there on that second zone in the first Eocene.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Got 3 questions.
One for Pat and a couple for George.
Pat just looking at your slides on the Downstream.
For international you talk about this timing effect which I assume is the inventory effect a positive 155.
Just curious as to why there wasn't a similar one for U.S.
Downstream given the fact that all prices increased so much and therefore there must have been some gains in your Downstream inventory.
Right.
Actually Iain that large bar that you see there on international earnings called timing effects this time is largely a variance between different positions and open paper between the quarters mark-to-market effects between the quarters.
It's not really as inventory driven as it is mark-to-market driven.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Can you possibly say then what the overall inventory effect was in the Downstream? Just kind of roughly if you don't have a kind of exact number.
No I mean I think that it's not a place we want to go.
We don't have a number that's handy like that and I hate to speculate.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
All right.
George two for you.
Can I come back on Ed's question about costs in Australia? I understand you've got a fair amount of Gorgon contracted so that probably gives a reasonable amount of comfort in terms of the cost there.
But I'm just wondering about Wheatstone.
Yes coming out to FID and I presume [indiscernible] for equipment turbines et cetera.
Just in terms of cost differential between those 2 projects since obviously you're going to use some pretty similar equipment and obviously probably pretty much the same labor force.
You're absolutely right Iain.
We do have good cost test data.
A matter of fact we're in hand in many cases with contracts as we approach FID that we will be able to issue and execute.
So we have a pretty good handle on that.
That's very typical of our projects when we get to FID.
We really have an awful lot of both the purchased equipment and many contracts where we have a pricing-- we have -- beyond a pricing view we have a contract that we can execute.
We have boiled those into our plans for the FID and our request for funds.
I can't give you a number at this point in time until we get post-FID.
We'll be able to give some of that information.
Our expectation is in the fourth quarter that we will be at FID.
So that probably sets us up a good timing to do that in the March analyst meeting.
Inc.</strong> But is it fair to say -- I presume you're seeing some reasonable inflation through from the awards you did on Gorgon a couple of years ago to what you're seeing in Wheatstone now without giving a number.
I would just tell you we feel we have a very good handle on the pricing.
We still believe we are getting some good pricing due to the way we have contracted elements of the project.
I really can't go any further than that at this time.
Inc.</strong> All right.
Sorry I'm not trying extract anything from you.
It's about Tengiz.
I just got a question about the future growth projects.
I think when we were over there you were talking about being in a position to launch FEED.
I'm just -- and the government was kind of sitting on it for some reason.
I'm just kind of wondering where you are now or whether you managed to move that one forward at all and what that means in terms of the timing of the project.
I think we are moving forward on it.
I still believe that we're on schedule to -- for at least the fourth quarter FEED appropriation to be approved.
I think most of our issues we've covered.
And I'm sure hopeful that we're going to make that target date.
But we aren't there yet I'll tell you that.
So we're making progress but we're not there yet.
Okay.
At this point I'd like to wrap it up.
I'd like to say that I appreciate everyone's participation on the call today and everyone's interest in Chevron.
I especially want to thank the analysts who asked some very good questions.
I'm sure they helped everybody's understanding of the company.
So thank you very much everyone.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to the Vice President of -- the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Sean.
Welcome to Chevron's Third Quarter Earning's Conference Call and Webcast.
On the call with me today are Mike Wirth Executive Vice President of Downstream and Chemicals; and Jeanette Ourada General Manager Investor Relations.
Our focus today is on Chevron's financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2011.
We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The company's third quarter earnings were $7.8 billion or $3.92 per diluted share.
Earnings in the third quarter 2011 were more than twice that of third quarter 2010.
Upstream benefited from higher crude oil prices and Downstream benefited from gains on asset sales and improved margins.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months exceeded 22%.
Our debt ratio at the end of September was 7.5%.
This is lower than previous quarters due to the early and economic redemption of a $1.5 billion Chevron Corporation bond.
In the third quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares.
In the fourth quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.
Of particular note we announced Wednesday that Chevron's Board of Directors approved a $0.03 per share or 3.8% increase in the quarterly common stock dividend.
Our Board took the unusual step to authorize a second dividend increase this year because of the company's strong performance and financial position as well as their confidence in the company's future cash-generating capabilities.
Chevron has a long history of annual dividend increases 24 consecutive years.
The 2 dividend actions in 2011 resulted in annual quarterly dividend increase of 12.5% which is consistent with our priority of delivering long-term dividend growth to our shareholders.
Turning to Slide 4.
Cash generation from operations was $11.5 billion during the third quarter.
This is yet again a new quarterly record for the company and has resulted from continued strong operational performance.
Asset sales during the quarter which included the Pembroke Refinery generated about $2 billion in proceeds.
Year-to-date cash generated from operations was $32 billion reflecting the strong cash-generating power of our recent investments and of our base business.
This strong cash flow allows us to both reinvest in the top-tier project queue as well as reward our shareholders with meaningful dividend growth and a sustainable share repurchase program.
At quarter end our cash balances totaled over $20 billion up $3.3 billion year-to-date.
This puts us in a net cash position of $10.6 billion.
Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 5.
I'll compare results of the third quarter 2011 with the second quarter 2011.
As a reminder our earnings release compares third quarter 2011 with the same quarter a year ago.
Third quarter earnings were $7.8 billion slightly higher than second quarter earnings.
Starting on the left side of the chart Upstream earnings were down $670 million driven by lower crude oil realizations and lower volumes partly offset by favorable foreign exchange effects.
Downstream results increased $942 million between quarters benefiting from gains on asset sales favorable foreign exchange effects and improved international margins.
The variance in the Other bar reflects the unfavorable swing in corporate tax items.
On Slide 6 our U.S.
Upstream earnings for the third quarter were $442 million lower than the second quarter's results.
Combined crude oil and natural gas realizations reduced earnings by $190 million.
Chevron's average U.S.
crude oil realizations decreased 7% between consecutive quarters slightly higher than the 5% drop and posted Midway Sunset and LLS spot prices.
Natural gas realizations also dropped decreasing 5% between quarters in line with average Henry Hub spot prices.
Between quarters sales volumes decreased 32 000 barrels oil equivalent per day decreasing earnings by $105 million.
The Other bar is comprised of a number of unrelated items including the absence of gains on several small asset sales during the second quarter.
Turning to Slide 7.
International Upstream earnings were down $228 million compared with the second quarter.
Lower realizations decreased earnings by $225 million.
Unit realizations for liquids decreased about 4% in line with the decrease in average Brent spot prices.
Natural gas realizations were relatively flat between periods but benefited earnings by about $45 million due to sales mix.
Lower liftings across multiple countries decreased earnings by $250 million.
Between consecutive quarters liquids liftings were down 54 000 barrels per day and natural gas sales volumes were down 26 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Comparing third quarter liquids production with third quarter liquids liftings we were underlifted by about 1%.
Moving to the next bar as you know the U.K.
raised the effective tax rate from 50% to 62% in July retroactive to March.
The total impact recognized in the third quarter was $180 million about $135 million related to the first 6 months and about $45 million related to the current quarter.
Moving to the next bar a favorable change in foreign currency effects benefited earnings by $275 million.
The U.S.
dollar strengthened against many currencies most notably the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar.
The third quarter had a foreign exchange gain of about $305 million compared to a small gain of about $30 million in the second quarter.
These foreign exchange effects have minimal impacts on cash.
They are primarily balance sheet translation effects.
The Other bar reflects a number of items including lower exploration expense and lower OpEx.
In total our global Upstream earned almost $27 per barrel for the quarter.
Based on preliminary competitor results announced to date we outpaced our nearest competitor by over $5.5.
We've now led our peer group on this metric for over 2 years.
Slide 8 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Between quarters production decreased 95 000 barrels per day.
We don't show a price effects bar this quarter as the production impact from the $4 decrease in average Brent spot prices is negligible due to the timing of cargoes.
Moving to the first bar impacts relating to a third-party pipeline incident in Thailand negatively affected production by 27 000 barrels per day.
Repairs have been completed on the 2 pipelines.
The larger pipeline was back online in August and the smaller pipeline in mid-September.
Gulf of Mexico tropical storms Don and Lee decreased production by 10 000 barrels per day.
Production has since been restored at all impacted facilities and operations have returned to normal.
Base business production decreased 64 000 barrels per day.
Of this about 30 000 barrels per day was related to a high level of planned and unplanned maintenance in the quarter most notably in the U.K.
Australia and Kazakhstan.
Because the third quarter was a heavy turnaround quarter as it usually is I want to highlight that our year-to-date decline rate is in the 3% to 4% range consistent with our previous guidance.
Incremental production for major capital projects benefited third quarter production by 6 000 barrels per day primarily driven by the continued ramp up of Frade in Brazil and Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico.
Turning to Slide 9.
On a year-to-date basis our production averaged 2.68 million barrels per day.
Third quarter 2011 was an obvious low in production for us.
We do expect to see notably increased production during the fourth quarter on the order of 100 000 to 150 000 barrels per day.
The key drivers of this increase are in Thailand pipeline repairs are complete and our production has been fully restored.
In addition we will see new production during the fourth quarter as our Platong II asset quickly ramps up.
In the Gulf of Mexico we expect to see improved production as hurricane season comes to an end and from Perdido as a result of recent facility modifications.
In Kazakhstan we expect a strong fourth quarter at TCO now that major turnarounds are complete and because we normally see higher production during cooler weather.
And our other significant annual turnarounds are essentially complete.
Looking beyond the quarter I want to remind you of our long-term guidance.
At the end of 2009 we said we would grow production on average 1% per year through 2014 and then grow 4% to 5% thereafter.
For the first 2 years we are doing that and I'm reaffirming our original guidance now.
With the strength and scale of our major capital projects and our strong base business performance we continue to expect production to grow to 3.3 million barrels per day by 2017.
We are advancing the queue reaching critical milestones and are well-placed to deliver consistent growth and performance over the long term.
Turning to Slide 10.
U.S.
Downstream earnings improved $140 million in the third quarter.
Indicator margins weakened between quarters decreasing earnings by $225 million.
Refining and marketing margins for both the Gulf Coast and West Coast weakened relative to last quarter.
On the West Coast inventories lingered above seasonal averages and for both the West and Gulf Coast gasoline demand declined at the end of peak driving season.
However realized margins strengthened between quarters increasing earnings by $250 million.
Pascagoula and El Segundo refineries both benefited from running more economic crude slates during the quarter.
Higher produced volumes increased earnings by $30 million driven mainly by the absence of second quarter maintenance.
The Other bar consists of several unrelated items including lower OpEx and stronger trading results.
On Slide 11 international Downstream earnings were also higher this quarter increasing $802 million from second quarter's results.
Refining and marketing margins benefited earnings by $55 million due to improved Korean marketing margins and continued strong Asian demand.
Gains on asset sales improved earnings by $490 million.
This includes the Pembroke Refinery and related marketing facilities in the U.K.
and Ireland.
Positive foreign currency effects benefited earnings by $240 million primarily in our affiliates.
Third quarter's foreign exchange gain was about $145 million compared to the second quarter loss of about $95 million.
The Other bar includes a number of unrelated items.
Slide 12 covers All Other.
Third quarter charges were $358 million compared to a net $183 million charge in the second quarter an increase of $175 million between periods.
An unfavorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in $167 million variance and corporate charges were slightly higher by $8 million in the third quarter.
Year-to-date All Other charges were $929 million.
We believe our quarterly guidance range of $250 million to $350 million for net charges in the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.
Mike is now going to provide an update on our Downstream operations.
Mike? Thanks Jeanette.
I'm pleased to have an opportunity to update everyone on our Downstream performance.
We continue to focus on improving returns through a relentless commitment to operating safely and reliably and driving improvements through all our business operations.
Please turn to Slide 14.
I'd like to start with an update in the area of reliability where we now have 2010 Solomon data.
This comprehensive biannual third-party benchmarking survey shows that Chevron ranked #1 among major competitors in refinery utilization for the third consecutive period.
Reliable operations are the foundation of competitiveness and the reduction of unplanned shutdowns enabled us to capture maximum value from our installed capacity.
I've talked to you for years now about our commitment to reliability and this independent assessment shows the results of that commitment.
I'm extremely proud of this outcome as it demonstrates our sustained leadership in an essential measure of operational excellence.
Year-to-date 2011 we've delivered utilization rates at close to 2010 levels and our people are focused on continuing to sustain this level of performance.
Please turn to Slide 15.
In March I updated you on the progress of our organizational restructuring to lower our costs.
At that time we delivered a reduction in headcount of some 20% versus a year-end 2008 baseline largely through work simplification and streamlining.
As of the end of the third quarter we now stand at a reduction of 34% or 6 300 people mostly outside of the U.S.
This continued progress reflects portfolio rationalization and our significant efforts to keep our cost structure lean and competitive.
On the right-hand side of this chart you see an update of our commitment to improve refining performance by $700 million by the end of next year.
More than a year ahead of schedule we have exceeded our target and captured $750 million in annual improvements.
We've optimized a number of individual units across multiple refineries which have increased yield lowered blend cost and reduced lesser-value product streams.
At the same time modest investments and mechanical improvements have allowed us to lower energy water treatment and catalyst costs.
We'll use 2010 Solomon data to confirm the impact of these improvements and to establish targets for additional improvement.
Please turn to Slide 16.
I'd also like to update you on our efforts to high-grade and simplify our portfolio to improve focus efficiency and returns.
We've made continued progress this year including 21 more country exits primarily in Africa the Caribbean and Central America 8 logistics asset divestments including 6 terminals in the United States and the sale of our U.K.
and island Refining and Marketing assets including the Pembroke Refinery.
And we still have a number of other portfolio actions in progress.
We've signed sales agreements in Spain and Africa and are in final negotiations for the sale of additional assets in the Caribbean.
Since beginning this portfolio work in 2005 we've generated more than $8 billion in cash as a result of these actions.
Turning to Slide 17.
We're also optimizing our business line focus moving investment into higher-return business segments.
I'd like to highlight 4 important lubricants and chemicals projects.
In Saudi Arabia Chevron Phillips Chemical's Saudi Polymer Company achieved mechanical completion and is on track to start up a 1.2 million ton per year ethylene cracker and associated derivative units.
We reached a Final Investment Decision to fund a 25 000-barrel per day Pascagoula base oil plant which when completed in 2013 will make us the world's leading supplier of premium base oil.
We plan to expand our Oronite specialty chemicals plant in Singapore already the largest additives plant in the Asia-Pacific region to increase supply capability in the fast-growing Asia-Pacific market.
FID is scheduled for next year.
And Chevron Phillips Chemicals is conducting a feasibility study of a world-scale ethane cracker on the U.S.
Gulf Coast that would utilize advantage feed made available by the development of shale gas resources.
CPChem has a very strong existing position in this market with a competitive advantage and the ability to run a lighter feed slate with more ethane than the industry in general.
On top of that they've got excellent infrastructure and logistics capabilities and are one of the first in the industry to advance plans for new cracker investments.
With multiple facilities in the region and a proven track record of capability and performance we're confident that CPChem has a leg up on the right kind of project to deliver strong returns.
We'll keep you advised as this project progresses.
Turning to Slide 18.
In summary we continue to operate safely and reliably and are delivering very competitive financial results.
With year-to-date adjusted earnings per barrel of $3.15 and a return on capital employed of 19% we've come a long way in the last 2 years.
Our relative competitive performance on these 2 measures was strong in 2010 and continues to be strong this year where we stand #1 on earnings per barrel and #2 on ROCE after 9 months.
We've got the right strategies and are executing on our commitments.
I'm confident we'll continue to deliver excellent performance in the quarters to come.
With that I'd like to turn it over back to Pat.
Okay.
Thanks Mike.
Now turning to Slide 19.
I'd like to close out with a few highlights of Chevron's strategic progress during the quarter.
Mike just covered our Downstream progress.
Clearly our plans to improve the competitiveness of our Downstream operations are well on track.
Let me cover some of the highlights on Upstream now.
Most recently we achieved first production at Platong II in the Gulf of Thailand.
This natural gas project is expected to ramp up to 330 million cubic feet per day and it will also produce about 18 000 barrels per day of natural gas liquids.
We made Final Investment Decisions on a number of major capital projects this quarter.
In Australia we sanctioned the Wheatstone LNG project which along with the Gorgon project positions us to be one of the world's leading LNG suppliers.
Project cost estimates for Wheatstone is $29 billion.
It is a 2-train 8.9 million-ton per year LNG facility and a domestic gas plant.
We currently have about 60% of our equity LNG under long-term sales agreements.
In the North Sea the second phase of the Clair Ridge development received the green light.
This project is expected to cost $7.1 billion and will extend peak production and increased recovery from the Clair Ridge field.
We also sanctioned the Tubular Bells project in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
First production from this $2.3 billion oil &amp; gas development is expected in 2014 with peak production at 40 000 to 45 000 barrels per day oil equivalent.
Our exploration activities have accelerated throughout the year.
In the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico we recently announced the Moccasin oil discovery and spud our Coronado well.
We also spud a pre-salt well in Angola.
And in offshore China we have just begun drilling our first well in the Deepwater Pearl River Mouth Basin.
In Australia we announced the discovery at Acme West and we have just spud our Vos well.
We are also progressing our global shale activity with our first well currently drilling in Canada's Duvernay and with an imminent spud of our first well in Poland.
It's clear that we're in a growth phase through mid-decade.
You'll see this on the long-term production slide Jeanette reviewed earlier with you and it is reinforced as I run through these strategic milestones where we're evaluating newly captured acreage and continuing to sanction new development projects.
We have indicated previously that our medium-term C&amp;E requirements would be robust a direct result of having such a healthy and frankly enviable development queue.
For 2012 I'm not in a position just yet to offer a firm C&amp;E target.
But you should expect a noticeable increase from current spending levels.
We will be reviewing our investment plans with our Board in just a few weeks and we will be announcing the 2012 target investment figure most likely in the first week of December.
In closing the company is operating very well.
Our financial performance is quite strong.
Our strategies are the right ones and we're executing well against them.
Our shareholders are benefiting from both growing dividends and an expanding share repurchase program.
We're truly excited about the value-creation opportunities ahead for us.
We're committed to delivering disciplined growth and shareholder value for a long time to come.
So that now concludes our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] So now Sean if you could open up the lines for questions we'll get started.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ed Westlake with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Very strong cash flow again this quarter.
Just a quick question.
If you've taken FID on Wheatstone and Tubular Bells I mean people out there do question the returns on perhaps the initial phases of Wheatstone and the Tubular Bells project.
Clearly Wheatstone's more strategic.
But I mean what would you say that the people might be missing when you think about the returns for both of those projects? I think actually both of the projects are strongly economic.
I mean we did mention the strategic aspect around Wheatstone and there's a prospect of brownfield expansion beyond the initial commitments that we have made.
We continue to be very successful in the Australian Basin in finding gas.
I think we've announced 11 discoveries over the last couple of years.
So obviously it's a very prolific basin.
So that will have strong returns for a very long time to come.
At the same time the Gulf of Mexico is a strategic basin for us as well and the economics on Tubular Bells look strong.
They're competitive in our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> And maybe specifically on Wheatstone obviously $29 billion total CapEx.
How quickly are you going to be able to get spend going into say 2012? I think that our project team was waiting for the Final Investment Decision to be made and they are very anxious and ready and in fact are ramping up as we speak Ed.
So I would expect there to be a significant ramp-up there in 2012 for Wheatstone.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First for RNM [ph] my -- other than say the pending sales in Spain Africa and Caribbean you're largely done with the portfolio restructuring or do you still have significant more to go? And also if you can give a comment about Richmond whether that we're going to see any progress on the upgrading there? And then also that with the Eagle Ford the increasing NGL  and the condensate production have you guys looked at whether it you makes sense in Pascagoula or some of your facility adding a condensate splitter to take advantage on that? Okay Paul.
I'll take those in order.
First of all on the portfolio we've tried to lay out for you on an annual basis the large portfolio actions that are underway or the clusters of geographies.
And as I mentioned Spain and a little bit of Africa still is pending with some deals signed and yet to close.
We're negotiating on businesses in the Caribbean still Puerto Rico the Dominican Republic a number of the other islands in the Caribbean and would expect to have deals on those signed before the end of this year and close next year.
Beyond that we'll always continue to review our portfolio for competitiveness but I think the big work will be complete in 2012.
And if we've got any other things that we anticipate doing here in the near term you'll probably hear about them in March.
But we're winding this down towards the portfolio that we really believe is right for us and will allow us to deliver sustained very competitive returns.
On Richmond you know the history so I won't reprise that.
We continue to be committed to investing under the right circumstances in a project there.
In May of this year we submitted an application to the City of Richmond restarting the environmental review process and taking clear note of the deficiencies in the prior process that were noted by the judge in the lawsuit.
We've scaled it back.
We initially had a significantly larger set of projects that we were undertaking and moving through the permitting process.
Other revised project will only complete the replacement of very old hydrogen plant equipments and give us the ability to use that hydrogen both on site at the refinery and to export some of it to other users.
We have removed the catalytic -- a continuous cat reformer project and some other power plants' replacement projects.
So we've scaled it back.
And the other point I would make is it doesn't really change the basic function of the refinery.
What it does is it allows the refinery to remain competitive by replacing older equipment with newer cleaner technologies to reduce emissions and improve efficiency.
We've got some of the toughest environmental laws in the world in California and the Richmond Refinery is one of the most efficient and low-emitting refineries that we have.
So we believe that this is a sound project and frankly shouldn't be as controversial as it has become.
I can't speculate on when we're going to receive permits or when construction would continue.
So we'll keep you advised as we go through that process.
Finally on Pascagoula Pascagoula's got a big coker and we're investing in a lube oil plant there.
And so it has very good product flexibility and it's got good crude flexibility in terms of taking in heavier more sour crudes to take advantage of the discounts there.
We are undertaking some further crude flexibility work to bring in other higher-viscosity crudes higher-asset crudes but have not undertaken anything relative to a condensate splitter.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Pat if I can take my full course of 2 hopefully quick ones.
First of all I appreciate the update from Jeanette on timing and/or at least on capital I should say on the production outlook.
However can you reiterate or reaffirm the timing on Gorgon because we're hearing chatter of Australia that things might have slipped behind schedule both on a budget and on a timing basis if you could reaffirm that? And my quick follow-up I guess taking advantage of Mike being on the line here.
Mike it looks like at least on our model when we look at top tier rates on the International business and particularly in the U.S.
business that based relative to your indicator margins things seem to have kind of deteriorated a little bit versus what you were able to capture obviously from same assets.
I'm just wondering if something has changed notably there that you can share with us and I'll leave it at that.
Okay.
I'll take the first one there on Gorgon.
We are reaffirming our timing of Gorgon which would include production first production at the end of 2014.
I think we've been pretty transparent about some of the weather-related delays that we had initially on when 8 cyclones went through before we had much of the site prep work done.
That has been resolved.
We've now got the housing facilities that are cyclone-proof.
So should there be bad weather again we won't have to demobilize people on and off and remobilize people on and off the island.
We've actually make tremendous progress over the last several months.
The materials offloading facility is ready for service.
That will make the logistics moving quite easy.
I mentioned the housing is really already 80% of it's there and occupied.
We've got the tankage being built we have the wells being drilled.
So there's really tremendous progress that's being made on Gorgon.
And to the extent that you hear some chatter about scheduled slippage as you know we continue -- there are critical path items and noncritical path items on any major project schedule and we feel very secure that our critical path items are right on plan.
Doug on the question on capture rates I don't know exactly what your model is showing you.
In the third quarter we had a very good quarter.
In fact in the U.S.
you saw some significant margin deterioration.
The West Coast refining margins were off by $3 a barrel or more when we saw some reductions on the Gulf Coast as well.
Actually West Coast was down 5 and the Gulf Coast was down 3.
We were actually able to capture that back and claw it back.
And likewise internationally we ran pretty well.
Earlier in the year and so if you're looking at year-to-date we did have some issues in the first and particularly the second quarter with some extended turnarounds at one of our facilities in the fire and another one that took a crude generator offline for a while that had us running slightly different than we normally would in selling out intermediates and buying intermediates which is some things that can chew into your margins while you're operating like that.
So earlier in the year we did have some challenges.
But in the third quarter we did well and there's nothing material that's changed in terms of our ability to continue to be competitive in that regard.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Macquarie Capital.
First of all I wanted to ask a question about Australia with the incremental exploration success patent.
If you could update us on what you think the resource base that you have captured in Australia is and sort of contrast that with what I imagine to be about 23 TCFs you'd need to back up the 2 projects that are currently under construction or at least approved.
And then a very specific one for Mike.
Mike you had mentioned a couple of years ago a technology that you were piloting in Pascagoula was a vacuum-resid hydro-cracking process with near 100% clean product yield.
How is that process going? Is that something that you think could be commercialized? Okay.
First one on Gorgon.
Actually Jason I wish I had a slide in front of me that I'd just refer you back to.
George showed a slide at our Security Analyst Meeting back in March where he talked to the incremental gas quantities being found and the points in time over time when we have sanctioned these various projects.
And what you continue to see is that we continue to find additional resources both that can support an additional Train 4 around Gorgon and then also potentially supporting additional trains around Wheatstone.
So we don't -- I don't have any incrementally new number to advise you of that.
I'd suggest that you go back and pull out that slide and know that we have continued to have major success since March.
And that George I'm sure will update you in March with some rendition of that slide.
But obviously it's a very prolific gas basin and we're very encouraged about the exploration success that we continue to have.
And Jason on the technology that we talked about a few years back we continue to mature that in a pilot plants and to very good results.
We looked very hard at a couple of different locations at a precommercial plant that would run at a few thousand barrels a day and prove it up so that we could scale it up.
The capital costs on that were pretty significant.
And at a time when we've got a lot of other value-creating capital opportunities in our queue and the questions today have been about a number of those we are prioritizing our activity and this one really at the scale it would take for us to answer the next set of questions as we manage our way through capital spend it just doesn't stack up.
So we've got the technology we've got it well covered with IP protection and we'll maintain it.
But at this point we have chosen not to proceed to the next step of scale up on that.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin with Socit Gnrale.
Two quick ones.
With Angola will that be a fourth quarter TD or first quarter on the pre-salt well? I don't know.
I mean it just started drilling.
So I don't think you're talking about a fourth quarter outcome here.
I think you're really talking much much into or early into 2012.
Okay.
That's fine.
With Wheatstone Pat can you address what your reserve bookings might be? I mean initially you started out with a small amount for projects that are sanctioned offshore.
I was wondering if you were willing to give an order of magnitude.
I'm not willing to give an order of magnitude.
We'll do that obviously with our year-end reports.
But having sanctioned Wheatstone and the fact that it is an LNG project will mean that you should see a sizable reserve booking this year.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'll give you 2 questions one Downstream and one on exploration.
A question for Mike on your near-term refining outlook.
A good quarter good Downstream quarter by the way.
As I look at the European inventory both diesel and crude at 7- and 5-year lows U.S.
day cover 5 lows steep backwardation in the product market.
I was wondering what your perspective was in the near-term distillate markets as well as what you're seeing in Asia where there's frankly inventory and demand data are a little less transparent.
And on the Japan cargo side if we could give comments there the last time you were on the call as well.
Okay.
So I'll take that one and we'll take your follow-up question.
Yes so right now sentiment seems to swing.
We had some optimism about the announcements out of Europe earlier this week but I think overall in the OECD the demand side and the overall economic situation continues to be problematic.
And so there is some risk.
Now you've gone to the part of the barrel where things look better which is distillate.
Japanese diesel demand looks to be up pretty sharply.
We saw -- we've seen a strong draw in stocks in Japan in October.
There's some talk and you're right in China things are less transparent.
But some talk that diesel maybe a little bit on the short end there right now.
And certainly as you look at the data here for the U.S.
the implied diesel demand including exports which have become a regular part of the mix here it's above the 5-year average.
We're well into the harvest season and moving into cooler weather.
So there's a number of supportive factors for distillate demands right now.
And the spreads reflect that if you look at the NYMEX right now diesel this commands quite a healthy premium to gasoline.
Gasoline markets look weak right now high prices.
Demand has been struggling to stay within range of what we saw a year ago here in the U.S.
And so the gasoline part of the barrel continues to be pretty week.
I think in Asia it's a mix as always.
There's a quote from Lee Kuan Yew that Asians are a figment of the Western imagination.
I think in places like China and Singapore it look very very strong.
And Thailand and the Philippines right now are really struggling with weather.
And the impact of the floods in Thailand and a couple of typhoons that took a pretty direct shot at the large demand centers in the Philippines and then there's other parts of Asia like Japan where demand continues to be pretty weak.
So overall I think China remains the big story and I think distillate is the part of the barrel that we continue to see the strength in.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's great.
My follow-up question is on exploration.
I know that [indiscernible] and Block 0's been very prolific for Chevron.
You kind of highlight the pre-salt well and I think you drilled through that salt before to -- I think it's been less uniform.
As you're highlighting that well I presume it's a material well.
I just wondered if you could -- is there something different or more perspective here and then update on Liberia spud date maybe Bear's Hump as well.
Yes Evan there's not really much more I can offer on the Angola well.
I mean we'll just have to wait and see how that comes out.
The Liberia spud date is later here in the fourth quarter.
And that again in 3 large blocks it's the first well highly perspective or we hope it will be a highly perspective area.
And Bears Hump the same kind of thing.
Bears Hump is still drilling and we'll have to wait and see what the outcome there is.
That's Gulf of Mexico deep gas and we'll just have to wait and see.
Our next question comes from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mike I got one for you relating to some of Jeanette's comments.
In discussing the U.S.
Downstream in the third quarter she referenced a very very sizable impact associated with I think she termed it a more economic crude slate.
If you do the math on those numbers that's a big figure on a per-barrel basis.
Could you talk about what that's about and the sustainability of it? And in particular the extent to which it's associated with market factors as opposed to specific Chevron initiatives and then I have a follow-up.
Okay.
So the thing that I think you ought to pay attention to in there is that it's a 2Q-to-3Q comparison number one.
Number two it reflects some of the challenges I referenced earlier in that earlier in the year we had some refineries that had some issues.
So we had a fire at the Pascagoula one of our crude units at Pascagoula and in the second quarter and so we were offline there buying higher-priced intermediates and to keep the back-end conversion units full we had some problems at El Segundo in the second quarter as well.
In the third quarter by contrast everything ran extraordinarily well and we had virtually no unanticipated issues to face.
And we were able to optimize some spreads that had opened up in the market.
We also have a couple of our refineries they're smaller Burnaby and Hawaii that purchase a fair amount of their feedstock priced off of WTI.
And while we don't have the big WTI exposure that some of the larger Mid-Continent refiners do that's been a nontrivial factor for those refineries as well.
So you have a number of issues some of them market-related some of them operations-related and some of them Chevron related all of which moved significantly to the positive in Q3 a number of which were either not nearly as strong in Q2 or given the operational challenges actually negatives in Q2.
So without trying to take you down into a detailed breakdown on that Mark I would tell you that you shouldn't bank on all of that as being kind of a sustainable kind of a way to beat the market.
But there's certainly a chunk of that that I think is.
LLC Research Division</strong> Pat you've been in the global LNG selling/contracting business for a while.
I was wondering if you could just comment on the kind of trends you're seeing in the more recent LNG contracts in terms of such features as the slope S-curve aspects and anything else you might want to comment on in terms of how that market is looking.
Actually I mean what we're seeing frankly is I would call it a strengthening of the midterm LNG market really with fallout from the Fukushima circumstance.
And so I would say in the medium term it's been a stronger market.
So I think you can get an indication of what the various slopes have been from various publications.
I don't want to go into specifics there but I think the contracts we're not working on it off of the curve interpretation and we feel very comfortable about where we stood commercially.
We have additional volumes that we can still place with Wheatstone and Gorgon frankly and we are in discussions with numerous buyers on that.
And we feel very optimistic about our ability to find quality buyers at very good commercial terms.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 quick ones for you.
One I wanted to clarify the production comments.
If I'm not mistaken the guidance last quarter was for full year volumes of 2.7 million 3 million barrels per day.
And if I heard the correct number for ramp up in 4Q of 100 to 150 it seems like you may come in a bit light according to my arithmetic.
I'm just trying to confirm is that the case? I think that's a fair assessment yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly as we kind of look ahead to CapEx I realize you'll be giving some details in December but in our efforts to try and quantify what that could be when we look at Wheatstone your 73% working interest I believe.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us any clue for where you expect that number to ultimately land? Or are you maintaining that level? You mean in terms of our equity ownership? Research Division</strong> Correct.
Yes.
I mean we do anticipate a further sell down here.
That's our expectation yes.
Research Division</strong> Is there a targeted percentage level that we should be thinking about maybe? You mean in terms of our overall ownership? Research Division</strong> Yes right.
How low do you want to get? I think that really depends on commercial discussions that are underway here.
And I think having a proportionality in a 70%-ish range works well for us.
I don't want to get any more specific than that I think.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got a couple of questions for Mike actually.
Kind of firstly just sort of a big picture one on the Downstream Mike.
If you kind of step back to 2009 and look at where you've come in terms of improvements in your Downstream earnings if you split that between the portfolio actions you've done in cost reduction and kind of new investment how would that improvement kind of break down? I'm also interested in about how you see in kind of a constant margin environment that's improving in the future? So that's something in March that I'll update everybody on because we laid out some pretty specific targets against our 2009 performance and I just don't have a breakdown in front of me right now.
I would tell you from a big-picture standpoint we've certainly seen margins better than what we experienced in 2009.
So a portion of what you've seen in the Downstream is due to improved fundamentals out there in the marketplace.
But we have made sizable cost reductions.
I spoke to you a third reduction in headcount.
We have reduced our positions in a lot of countries around the world where frankly we worked hard to not take a lot home.
And we're coring up into the areas where we really have competitive strength.
So the cost side of it in the portfolio side had been very important.
The other part is reliability and I talked to you about our utilization rates.
And we are running our assets extremely well and better than our competitors are.
And you take whatever the market has to offer you.
And if you can continue to run reliably you can be very very competitive.
So there are contributions from the market that are nontrivial but there's a big big piece of self-help that I'll talk about when we're back in New York again in March.
I just don't have a specific breakdown for you this morning.
I do think that the self-help piece is intended to be sustainable.
And in the Downstream it's a margin business.
The competition is tough and hanging on to the improvement is always a challenge which is why we continually reset targets to get even better.
And I made reference to that today in our refining system.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second question's about [indiscernible] I just wonder whether you've got any concerns about the new kind of co-owner which you're going to have there some time in next year.
And whether there's any plans for any change into the way the joint venture is set up? This joint venture's been very successful over the decade that it's been in place and Philips and then ConocoPhillips has been a very good partner and we've been well-aligned.
I think that they've indicated they intend this to go to their Downstream company.
The CEO of that Downstream company has been announced and he happens to be the former CEO of Chevron Phillips Chemical Company.
So he's a strong leader and somebody who we know well and have a good relationship with.
We are having discussions with them to ensure that we remain aligned.
But I can tell you that in the boardroom and in shareholder discussions with them we see more alignment than we see differences that's for sure.
They will be a smaller company and they will be a company that is purely exposed to the fundamentals of the Downstream business.
And so that could become an issue over time but we'll just have to see how that plays out.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Mike could I ask you about Californian crude pricing and feedstock pricing from the point of view of your position as a major producer and consumer there? I'm just thinking that things are shifting over time quite dramatically in California.
Yes without knowing exactly what you're referring to I will tell you as an equity producer of heavy crude in the San Joaquin Valley we are seeing strong pricing for that crude today.
So as an Upstream producer we're enjoying the demand for that crude.
And you match that up with where domestic natural gas prices are and our steam flood there is quite economic at these kinds of natural gas prices.
So it's a good place to be.
There's strong demand for that crude.
We've got options with both pipeline connections to those fields and the ability to bring in cargoes from other markets to support our Upstream ones with good strong runs of our equity heavy crudes and to keep our refinery competitive by taking advantage of opportunities to bring in South American heavies for instance into El Segundo.
So it's been a market that I think has been good for our Upstream and it hasn't been bad for our Downstream business.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean you're heading exactly where I wanted you to.
On the San Joaquin I was just wondering you said it's the demand affect that's causing the big premium that we're seeing relative to historical premiums.
Yes I mean people are set up to run these heavy crudes and not just our refinery but other refineries that are connected to it.
And with some of the demand you see in Asia that is pulling some of the heavy crudes to Asia.
The options have changed and the reliance on certain feedstocks particularly when you're tied to a pipeline where you can get it in is something that you have to confront as a refiner.
So I do think you've seen some shifting dynamics there which put a little more pressure on the refiners to be sure that they're as good as they can be and it's been healthy for our Upstream.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Has it -- I know it's an Upstream question but have you been suffering permitting issues offsetting that benefit? In San Joaquin Valley are you talking Paul? No we haven't.
I mean we obviously work very closely with the regulators but we haven't seen any sort of negative impact associated with the additional regulatory oversight there.
Not out of the normal for California.
Well said Mike yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then my second if I could Pat to you.
I know you hate it when I describe it as a war chest but it is notable that you've got over $10 billion.
You've obviously done the dividend step-up which I guess is very unusual for you to raise twice in a year.
I'm not sure you have done it frankly.
Why not more buyback in Q4? Yes Paul.
I mean I guess it's coming down to I guess no matter how you give the cash away people aren't -- not everybody's happy all the time.
We felt very good about the second quarter -- the second time in a year dividend increased.
We have done it in the past.
Typically when you have seen a significant run-up in commodity prices in a short period of time that's really what we saw here in 2011.
So our cash balance for 2011 is coming in much stronger than we thought it would be at the beginning of the year.
And the dividend increase was really intended to signal confidence in our current position as well as our future cash-generating position.
We do look at the share repurchases every quarter.
We do run through that sort of discussion with the Board.
And at this particular time the preference is given over to dividends.
We think that actually sends a stronger signal about the performance of the company presently and really on a go-forward basis because we view it as a permanent increase.
And all I can say is we will continue to look every quarter at the cash balance and we'll look at our medium-term outlook on prices margins C&amp;E requirements.
I did signal that we would have a more noticeable uptick in C&amp;E in 2012 relative to current spending.
So all of that gets taken into account when we look at the share repurchase decision.
Our next question comes from Allen Good with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question on -- you mentioned the Duvernay.
I was just questioning any other activity as far as unconventional on lower 48 or even in Canada as far as acreage adds go during the quarter? Not during the quarter no.
I mean we've continued to add significantly in unconventional properties over the course of the last 12 and 18 months.
And we've been pretty descriptive about what all those properties were.
I think some 15 million acres in total added over that period of time for all acreage of which certainly unconventional gas is a portion of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one for Mike.
It looks like last week California regulators voted to move ahead with some sort of carbon market in California by 2013.
I was just wondering what you see the impact for Chevron there? Do you  think you're going to see increased costs? Or is that something more that we would be passed along to the consumer? It's a great question.
California has decided to go it alone -- or largely alone here on the climate change.
The benchmark calculations are still not clear.
The first compliance period is 2013 through 2014.
Transportation fuels are not included in the first compliance period which is where a real consumer pass-through issue will absolutely exist.
And so at this point and I think in the early portion of the program we feel like because we have very efficient facilities and have invested in energy efficiency that we can manage our way through the beginning.
But I have to tell you just a few facts.
I mean California energy prices are some of the highest in the nation whether you're talking about electricity or fuels.
By policy this is designed to drive prices higher.
And at some point businesses have to confront that as to the consumers of those businesses' products.
And in a state where the economy is challenged where employment is challenged and with a fiscal situation that is unsustainable I think the effects here are predictable.
And so there are -- we're on a policy path in California that I think is going to need to be addressed by policymakers over time.
Okay our final question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A very quick one if I may.
I believe the last resource estimates for the Wheatstone fields was given back in 2008.
Given the discovery since then I'm curious what kind of color you can give on the current resource base? Yes Pavel I don't have a number handy.
Again I hate to -- the next time I come into the call I'll bring that slide.
There is a slide that George showed that talked about the entire Australian resource opportunity.
I just have to refer you to that and we will update that slide come March because we have had additional success.
But I don't have a specific number for you here today.
Okay thank you very much.
I think that concludes our discussion here this morning.
And let me thank everybody for their participation on the call today.
I want to thank particularly those who asked questions because I think it enlarges the debate and the understanding for everybody.
So thank you everyone.
I appreciate your interest in Chevron.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron's third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation Mr.
John Watson.
Please go ahead.
Well thanks Sean.
And welcome everyone to Chevron's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington you all know our Chief Financial Officer; and Jeanette Ourada our General Manager of Investor Relations.
And we'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.
Before we get started as usual please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement on Slide 2.
Turning to Slide 3 I want to begin with safety where we always do.
In March of last year I talked with you at some length about Chevron's safety journey over 100 years of focus and improvements in our systems and processes.
I said we work to improve every day.
As a result of our efforts every key measure of safety and environmental performance has improved dramatically over the last decade.
In fact we just had another very good statistical year in safety.
We had world-class low industrial injury rates we had fewer fires serious auto and other incidents; some very good performance during the year but were nowhere near where we want to be.
In particular we had drilling-related incidents in recent months in Brazil and Nigeria sadly with 2 contract employee fatalities in Nigeria.
We have full investigations underway and are doing everything we can to learn from these incidents.
There is a great deal of information available on our website and I'll be happy to answer any questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
Our financial performance in 2011 was outstanding.
We achieved record earnings and cash flow underscoring the strength of our portfolio and strategic direction.
Underlying these record financial results is our outstanding upstream earnings per barrel.
We invest to generate value for our shareholders and we like high-value barrels.
While our peers have not all reported their fourth quarter results we fully expect to maintain our wide lead on this critical metric.
I'd like to summarize a few additional accomplishments in the upstream business.
We sanctioned 3 major projects.
We broke ground in December on Wheatstone our second legacy LNG project in Australia.
We also moved forward on Clair Ridge in the U.K.
and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico.
In the Gulf of Thailand our Platong II project start up and ramped up very quickly.
We completed our acquisition of Atlas Energy and supplemented it with some additional acreage acquisitions in the Marcellus.
We continued our string of exploration successes offshore Australia with 4 natural gas discoveries and we announced the Moccasin oil discovery in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
And we achieved 171% reserve replacement driven by the initial booking of about 740 million barrels of oil equivalent from our Wheatstone LNG Project.
Looking at our downstream business we made great progress in the second year of a 3-year plan to improve returns.
The completion of the Pembroke Refinery sale marked a significant milestone in our portfolio rationalization process.
We also made a final investment decision and began construction on a premium base oil plant at our Pascagoula Mississippi refinery which when completed will position Chevron as the world's leading supplier of premium base oils.
We're very proud of our performance this past year.
With that I'll turn it over to Pat who will take you through our financial results.
Pat? All right.
Thanks John.
Slide 4 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The company's fourth quarter earnings were $5.1 billion or $2.58 per diluted share.
For the year earnings were a record $27 billion or $13.44 per diluted share over 40% higher than in 2010.
Return on capital employed for the year was nearly 22% and our debt ratio at year end was 7.7%.
Of particular note 2011 marked our 24th consecutive annual dividend increase.
We had 2 dividend increases during the year which resulted in a combined 12.5% rise in the quarterly rate in 2011.
This is significant indicating not only our superior performance and our financial strength but also our confidence in our future performance.
It is also consistent with our priority of rewarding shareholders with sustained and competitive dividend growth.
In the fourth quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares bringing the full year share repurchase total to $4.25 billion.
In the first quarter of 2012 we expect to repurchase $1.25 billion of our shares.
Finally Chevron's 2011 total shareholder return was 20%.
We hold the #1 TSR position versus our peer group for the 1- 5- and 10-year periods.
We are exceptionally proud of this achievement as it demonstrates our history of making wise portfolio investment decisions and executing well.
Turning to Slide 5.
Cash generated from operations was $8.3 billion during the quarter.
For the full year cash from operations exceeded $40 billion a record for the company and over 28% higher than last year.
This reflects our impressive operating performance and the cash-generating strength of our portfolio.
At year end our cash balances totaled $20 billion up $3 billion from the end of 2010.
This put us in a net cash position of about $10 billion.
Our strong cash flow and solid balance sheet continue to be competitive advantages.
Turning to Slide 6.
I'll compare results of the fourth quarter 2011 with the third quarter 2011.
As a reminder our earnings press release compares fourth quarter 2011 with the same quarter a year ago.
Fourth quarter earnings were $5.1 billion $2.7 billion lower than third quarter earnings.
Upstream earnings were down $464 million driven by an unfavorable swing in foreign exchange effects and higher operating expenses partly offset by higher volume.
Downstream results decreased $2 billion between quarters resulting from weaker margins the absence of asset sale gains lower volumes and an unfavorable swing in foreign exchange effects.
The variance in the Other bar reflects higher corporate charges.
On Slide 7 our U.S.
upstream earnings for the fourth quarter were $97 million higher than the third quarter's result.
Higher realizations benefited earnings by $60 million.
A 4% increase in crude oil realizations improved earnings by about $100 million while a 13% drop in natural gas realizations reduced earnings by about $40 million.
Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $65 million between periods primarily due to higher employee cost and increased maintenance activity.
The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including gains on several small asset sales.
Turning to Slide 8.
International upstream earnings were down $561 million relative to the third quarter.
A net positive liftings variance across multiple countries increased earnings by $180 million.
Higher operating expenses reduced earnings by $165 million driven primarily by an increase in employee and maintenance expenses.
Tax items across multiple jurisdictions decreased earnings by $100 million between quarters.
This net number includes the absence of the one-time catch-up charge booked in the third quarter due to our retroactive tax increase in the U.K.
An unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects lowered earnings by about $305 million.
The U.S.
dollar weakened against many currencies most notably the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar.
The fourth quarter had a foreign exchange loss of around $3 million compared to a gain of about $300 million in the third quarter.
These foreign exchange effects have minimal impact on cash.
As we've said before they are primarily balance sheet translation effects.
The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including lower realizations and higher exploration expense associated with seismic acquisition cost across the portfolio as well as some well write-offs in China and Angola.
Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil-equivalent production.
Between quarters production increased 42 000 barrels a day.
Lower prices improved volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts during the fourth quarter increasing production about 4 000 barrels a day.
Base business combined with external constraints increased production a net 6 000 barrels a day.
Tengiz returned to normal operations following a turnaround activity in the third quarter but the impact of this full restoration was partly offset by some unplanned downtime in December.
Production in Thailand was also fully restored following a June third-party pipeline incident only to be partly offset by lower demand as a result of flooding and seasonality in the fourth quarter.
Offsetting these net positive impacts were normal field declines and an extended turnaround in Trinidad.
On the third quarter earnings call we told you we expected fourth quarter production to increase approximately 100 000 to 150 000 barrels per day.
Obviously our forecast did not include the negative impacts of the events I just mentioned.
Moving to the next bar incremental production from major capital projects increased fourth quarter production by 32 000 barrels a day primarily driven by the start-up of Platong II in Thailand and improved reliability at Perdido.
Slide 10 compares full year 2011 net oil-equivalent production to that of 2010.
Production decreased 90 000 barrels a day.
Price impacts from production sharing and variable-royalty contracts decreased production by 32 000 barrels a day.
The average Brent price increased about $32 in 2011.
For the full year each dollar increase in Brent results in a 1 000 barrel per day volume reduction.
Base business combined with external constraints lowered production by 103 000 barrels per day.
Normal field decline and higher maintenance activity were partly offset by about 17 000 barrels a day of oil equivalent from our recently acquired Marcellus assets.
Our decline rate for the year was about 4% right in line with our prior guidance.
Incremental production from our major capital projects contributed 45 000 barrels per day reflecting the start-up of Platong II in Thailand and the ramp-up of AOSP in Canada Frade in Brazil and Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our original production guidance for 2011 was 2.79 million barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We fell short of that guidance by about 115 000 barrels a day.
About 1/3 of that is due to higher prices; about 1/3 is due to lower-than-expected major capital project performance mostly Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico and Tombua-Landana in Angola; and the remaining 1/3 is lower base business performance about half of which is due to the third-party pipeline rupture and decreased demand in Thailand.
As John mentioned our focus is on profitable barrel.
For the year our global upstream earned over $26 per barrel.
This is an increase of over $8 per barrel from our 2010 results.
We have led our peer group on this metric for over 2 years by a wide margin and we expect the trend to continue as our competitors announce their fourth quarter results.
Turning now to Slide 11.
U.S.
downstream earnings decreased $908 million in the fourth quarter.
Margins dramatically weakened between quarters lowering earnings by about $400 million.
General industry fuel margins fell contributing about half the decline shown in the bar.
Seasonal declines in base oil and finished lubricant demand also punished fourth quarter margins.
Maintenance at our Richmond California and Pascagoula Mississippi refinery also impacted margins and was the primary driver for lower produced volumes which decreased earnings by about $200 million.
Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $155 million resulting from increased employee cost and maintenance activity I just mentioned along with associated higher transportation costs.
Chemical earnings decreased by $80 million due to both lower margins and lower sales volumes.
The Other bar consists of several unrelated items including the absence of third quarter asset sales negative LIFO affects and lower trading results.
On Slide 12 international downstream earnings were $1.1 billion lower this quarter.
Refining and marketing margins fell reducing earnings by $155 million.
This reflected weaker Asian demand coupled with regional recovery from shut downs.
The next bar shows the $570 million negative earnings variance primarily reflecting the absence of the third quarter gain on the sale of the Pembroke Refinery and related marketing facilities in the U.K.
and Ireland.
A swing in foreign currency effects reduced earnings by $230 million.
The U.S.
dollar weakened against both the Korean won and the Australian dollar during the quarter.
Fourth quarter's foreign exchange loss was about $85 million compared to the third quarter gain of about $145 million.
The Other bar here reflects a number of unrelated items including lower chemical and trading results and higher operating expenses.
Slide 13 covers All Other.
Fourth quarter net charges were $553 million compared to a net $358 million charge in the third quarter.
This is an increase of $195 million in charges between periods.
A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $30 million benefit to earnings.
Corporate costs were $225 million higher this quarter.
For the full year this segment had net charges of $1.5 billion putting us at the upper range of our $250 million to $350 million guidance range.
We believe going forward a higher range of $300 million to $400 million is more appropriate.
With that I'd like to now turn it back over to John for a few thoughts on 2012.
Okay.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 14.
In early December we announced our capital program for 2012 at $32.7 billion.
The 2012 program is in line with our overall 2011 investments once the Atlas acquisition is included.
We continue to develop an enviable project queue with almost 90% of the program earmarked for upstream activity.
We are progressing construction on our 2 world-class Australian LNG projects and deepwater Gulf of Mexico developments.
We are planning for increased exploration activity around the world along with additional work to further assess the Marcellus and Utica acreage we acquired this past year.
The investments we're making today are on track to deliver significant production growth by mid-decade which is expected to generate substantial cash flow over a long period of time.
Our downstream investments for 2012 will focus on the construction of a premium base oil plant at our Pascagoula refinery and improving downstream returns through a number of energy efficiency and feedstock flexibility projects.
Turning to Slide 15.
This slide shows our net production outlook for 2012.
Our full year outlook for 2012 is 2.68 million barrels of oil equivalent per day essentially flat with 2011.
The outlook assumes an average Brent price of $111 per barrel the same average price as 2011 and does not assume OPEC curtailments material security or market impacts.
Major capital project start-ups including Angola LNG and Usan are expected to be largely offset by base business decline and major turnaround activity at Tengiz.
2012 will be the first major plant turnaround for the SGI/SGP facilities since start-up in 2008.
We expect the turnaround to occur in the third quarter and last approximately 6 weeks.
Base business decline is expected to be about 4%.
Looking beyond 2012 I want to remind you of our long-term guidance.
At the end of 2009 we said we expected to grow production adjusted for price impacts about 1% per year through 2014 and then grow 4% to 5% thereafter.
We exceeded the 1% rate in 2010.
We're a bit below 2011 but overall on track to meet our goals.
With the strength and scale of our major capital projects and our strong base business performance we continue to expect production to grow to 3.3 million barrels per day by 2017.
We are advancing the queue reaching critical milestones and are well positioned to deliver consistent growth and performance over the long term.
Looking forward let me highlight some of the activities we have planned for 2012 on Slide 17.
In the downstream we will mark the final year of our 3-year plan to improve returns.
We're well on track to deliver on the commitments we made when we first began our restructuring program.
Construction on the Pascagoula base oil plant continues driving toward a 2013 start-up.
We're on track for start-up of 2 major capital projects: Angola LNG and the Usan deepwater project in Nigeria.
We expect increased exploration activity in both our core focus areas and some intriguing test areas around the globe.
We expect to enter the front end engineering and design phase of the Future Growth Project at Tengiz the Steamflood pilot expansion in the Partition Zone and our first expansion of Gorgon in Australia.
In 2012 we will have a laser-sharp focus on execution as we continue construction on our Australia LNG and deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects.
I look forward to further discussing these plans in more detail at our Security Analyst Meeting on March 13 in New York City.
We had a great 2011 and we're looking forward to delivering some strong results in 2012.
Now that concludes my prepared remarks.
We're now set to take some questions.
So Sean if you'll please open the lines for those questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's been a tough few weeks for news flow clearly.
Could you just underline for us the resolution that we now have on firstly the situation in Brazil? The extent to which there's any more potential news flow from the spill or whether or not that's essentially got a line drawn underneath it.
The same for Nigeria.
And then finally if you could address the recent legal news flow around Ecuador and where we are in that whole process I would be grateful.
Sure.
Let me first talk about Brazil.
As many of you know we had a seep there from well drilling activity in November.
And I would tell you that this is less a drilling issue as it is a subsurface issue.
We were drilling a well in the Frade Field.
Remember we've had over 50 well penetrations in this field and know it pretty well.
We hit pressure that was higher than we expected took a kick and our people responded in textbook fashion to control that kick wading up the mud et cetera.
It took us some time to identify that seeps were as a result of that kick in the first couple of days.
Wed sent ROVs down the first day and didn't see anything around our wells.
Remember these are subsea wells and there was nothing around the FPSO.
We sent an ROV down again and saw these seeps.
And so we commenced a significant action at that time to control the surface sheen that we were seeing and to control the seeps.
And that has been largely a very successful effort.
Now during that time you saw some very strong reaction by regulators and in the media.
I would tell you we didn't necessarily put our best foot forward in some of the communication that we made at that time but the event itself was handled in textbook fashion.
Now since that time we've been working very closely to improve the communications with regulators and to get them the necessary information that they need.
But like the United States and some other countries there are many different factions in Brazil.
And there are a number of political issues around oil development from the environmental community between the state and federal level.
And so you have a lot of different views on oil development and there are many forces at work in Brazil.
We're doing our best to deal with the circumstance.
I can't predict what may come.
What I do know is the facts would suggest that our people responded very well to this event.
And all we ask is to be treated fairly consistent with the facts and to be treated as Petrobras or others would be treated in a similar circumstance.
In terms of Nigeria the Nigeria event is a serious event and very concerned about it.
Obviously we had 2 fatalities from that incident.
I'm pleased that the evacuation that was put in place was fairly orderly and that 152 individuals were able to escape.
As you might imagine our first priority was dealing with those 152 individuals and searching for the 2 that proved to be lost.
We've been conducting interviews with those individuals to try to better understand what happened.
We have said that we had thought that there was some type of an equipment failure on surface facilities.
What we know is that there were gas returns from the formation through the annuals that were being circulated out through the mud/gas separator.
This is not at all unusual.
This is a fairly routine type of activity but then something went wrong.
And we don't know a lot more about it than that.
We're doing a root cause analysis.
We're trying to piece through the information that we're getting to better understand it.
But our real focus right now is really on putting out the fire that continues to this day.
As you probably read in the material we've put out we've mobilized 2 rigs to drill relief wells.
One is more precaution.
We presume the first will be successful.
But in the event that it encounters any challenges we've got a second.
We've received considerable help from the industry in making those rigs available which we're pleased with.
And we're doing well planning right now.
I would expect we would spud one of those relief wells within the next week or so.
We have seen the size of the flame go down significantly since the initial event but we're monitoring that as we go.
I'll remind you this is a gas well that's burning.
You do see a plume around the site.
That's silt and mud as it's been  its a very shallow site.
It's 40 feet of water.
And so as the gas comes up a lot of silt and mud is being disturbed and so you see that plume.
We've been sampling that that's mud and that will eventually dissipate and settle to the bottom.
So more work underway.
Certainly I'm concerned about these events.
They're fairly different events as I indicated.
The one in Brazil I would categorize more as a geologic event than drilling related.
The one in Nigeria is clearly related to drilling activities and surface activities.
We'll continue to do what we always do in these circumstances.
We'll work very hard to understand.
We've got a root cause analysis team that's been flown in from around the world to understand it.
We've taken actions as you might expect with stand downs in our drilling organization reinforcing well control standards and that's on top of many of the proprietary things that we do.
But certainly I'm very disappointed in those particular events.
Now when it comes to Ecuador that has been in the news as well.
I won't go through the case in great detail because I think most of you know the history.
If you're on the phone and you don't I encourage you look at our website because we have quite a bit of information.
And I think it's generally acknowledged that this case is a product of fraud.
Most of us know that.
This is a collaboration between corrupt plaintiff lawyers in the U.S.
and a corrupt judiciary in Ecuador.
Nonetheless we're moving it through the judicial system.
There have been events in really 3 courts recently: one in Ecuador one in New York and one in The Hague.
So I'll quickly tell you what's happened in each one.
On January 3 a panel of 3 temporary judges overseeing our appeal of the Lago Agrio verdict in Ecuador upheld that original ruling.
So on January 20 Chevron filed an appeal seeking a review by Ecuador's National Court of Justice.
Basically we're pursuing all available procedural steps in Ecuador as you would expect.
Remember we have no assets in Ecuador.
So the second area where there's been court activity has been in The Hague.
On January 25 the BIT Tribunal that is the Bilateral Investment Treaty Tribunal in The Hague converted its previous interim measures order to an interim award and that makes it have more standing in the international community.
And basically the award is targeted at the Republic of Ecuador and says that Ecuador is obligated to prevent enforcement worldwide pending a full review and formal trial in the merits of the case.
This award is helpful to us in preventing enforcement outside of Ecuador.
I would also point out that in previous rulings that the tribunal has made they have already indicated that Ecuador will be financially responsible for all the damage caused by this fraud if Chevron prevails.
So we've had some strong wording out of that court and are encouraged by that and there's another hearing scheduled.
And then finally on January 26 in New York the U.S.
Court of Appeals issued an opinion reversing and vacating the Southern District Court's injunction.
We had sought to stop enforcement in U.S.
courts stop the plaintiffs from enforcing any judgment that might be achieved in Ecuador in courts outside the United States.
And in a fairly narrow procedural ruling the courts held that that statute cannot be implied for purposes of such enforcement.
But it was a fairly narrow procedural ruling and it doesn't change -- in fact it made no comments about the merits of the case.
And in fact it made no comment about the RICO case.
And so you can expect that that will continue on its way.
I know this can be confusing.
We said at the outset with this case when you have a collusion and a fraud outside of the United States you have to work many avenues to protect yourself.
We still have many defenses both in Ecuador in The Hague and elsewhere where we've put together defense team should enforcement be sought elsewhere.
It's certainly unfortunate that we're at this point.
But when you have an elaborate fraud that's being perpetrated against you that's what you have to do.
So I hope that wasn't too long an update on those 3 matters.
Research Division</strong> John I mean my follow-up would simply be the -- what are the next dates or events that we should look for as the next sort of meaningful news flow items on those 3 issues as we go into 2012? And I'll leave it there.
Yes.
At some point we'll hear a final determination in the court of -- in Ecuador.
I'll leave that to you to decide what you think will happen there.
There could be more out of the BIT Tribunal and then there could be more actions that we could take in New York under the RICO case.
So that's where we are.
Research Division</strong> And dates for more news flow from Nigeria and Brazil? Those are hard to predict.
I think as -- we'll notify you for example when we spud the relief well.
To some degree events will dictate what we -- where we put out news.
But any significant change in the status of the well or the status of the work we're doing we'll certainly keep you apprised.
And for those that haven't seen it we're putting up pretty regular updates on our website on both Brazil and Nigeria.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned Pat the $10 billion on the balance sheet continues to provide Chevron with competitive advantages I guess only if you're going to do something with the cash obviously long range growth targets unchanged.
So just some color perhaps on is it because portfolio options for additional spend are not yet matured? Is it because you're worried about inflation in terms of the existing projects you have? Or are you thinking perhaps U.S.
gas prices being so weak will present a strategic opportunity for you guys? Well let me make a few comments because we have some priorities for our cash.
Clearly we have a strong balance sheet one of the strongest in the industry.
We're heading into a period where we have significant capital expenditures ahead of us.
And I've said previously that we want to be sure that we can execute this group of major capital projects uninterrupted.
And you can have considerable volatility in the commodity markets.
So even though we may think oil prices will be more than adequate to preserve our cash status so that we can fund these capital projects we have a more conservative balance sheet than might otherwise be the case to ensure that we can execute these major capital projects.
That's I guess number one that I would tell you.
We want to be able to fund these projects.
We of course want to be able to continue to pay the dividend and increase the dividend as the pattern of earnings and cash flow permit going forward.
And then we have further flexibility to repurchase shares if cash gets above the rate that we think affords us those protections.
And we have -- and as you've seen we have done that.
We're not saving it for a particular purpose.
We are opportunistic when it comes to opportunities to add to the portfolio and we want to be in a position of having sufficient resources to be able to take advantage of an opportunity.
You've seen last year we made small acquisitions in the Marcellus and add-on bolt-on acquisitions and the balance sheet that we have affords us that sort of flexibility.
We don't have to do any acquisitions but we're in a position to take advantage of opportunities with the balance sheet that we have.
So that's kind of the priorities that we have for the cash debt balance that we have today.
Research Division</strong> And maybe a follow-on then.
So Gorgon Wheatstone and Jack/St.
Malo some of the Big Foots some of the big projects.
Gorgon I think maybe towards the end of this year you'll be in a more comfortable position in terms of really understanding productivity.
And the ultimate cost of that project probably provides a read through to Wheatstone.
So at that point would you be more comfortable to say okay we've got through the hump of the CapEx and we could maybe return cash to shareholders or do something different? I think you hit it about right in terms of the sort of understanding what -- cost if you will.
If you look at Wheatstone -- I just had an update last night with the project team for example on both Gorgon and Wheatstone.
I meet with them -- once a month I meet with the project manager and line management and had a pretty thorough update on where we are at Gorgon.
And we're 36% complete now.
It's going very well other than a cyclone that's descending on Barrow Island as we speak.
That's one of the things that we deal with.
We have hardened facilities there so we'll manage our way through that.
But the project is going very well 36% complete.
And I'll just tell you we're on track for kind of late 2014 start-up of Gorgon.
I feel pretty good about the progress that we have made on that flagship project.
From a cost point of view and maybe just what you were getting at we will have -- this will be the first year where we'll have a lot of on-island activity.
And so we'll get a good chance to understand labor productivity and the progress that we're making.
That coupled with impacts of foreign exchange for example will dictate whether there's any change to cost one way or another.
At this point the $37 billion is the target for the project.
And if we have anything more to say it's probably more later in the year.
So on the subject of will we change our balance sheet structure as the year wears on I think it's fair to say that as we get closer to start-up of these big projects remember we've got Gorgon Wheatstone Jack/St.
Malo Big Foot Tubular Bells that all start up in that -- Wheatstone is a little later but the big ones in the 2014 time frame as we get closer to that date the need for flexibility on the balance sheet diminishes.
And then we'll have choices for what we do with that additional cash.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> John you outlined a number of the big projects Australia LNG deepwater you got some big international projects.
The big glaring hole is U.S.
shale and U.S.
liquids shale in particular.
You do have the Marcellus but as some of these opportunities start to expand and mature they do actually look quite substantial.
I'm curious how you -- if you can provide some comments on how you do thinking about addressing that seeming hole in your portfolio.
There are a lot of jobs that come with these projects.
There's a lot of opportunity to invest here in America.
You are the second-largest energy company in the U.S.
Between the inherent investment opportunity and some of the other benefits of investing here how do you see that as a strategic need for Chevron? Yes sure Arjun.
Look we're very positive on shales.
As you know very well the shale gas business in this country was really built by the independents because you had to have strong land departments.
And so major companies got involved by buying their way in.
And so prices began to run up.
And we felt we always were very focused on value even -- no matter how much we might like rocks we're always very focused on value.
And many have plunged in with big dollars and perhaps those will prove to be money well spent.
For our view we had some pretty strict criteria and we have made some targeted acquisitions at areas where we know we have a low-cost basis of doing business including a substantial carry to cushion us through a difficult period in the gas market.
I guess I'd point out that we have some 8 million acres of shale around the world.
And in March you'll hear George give you an update on not just the Marcellus and Utica shales but also some of the things we're working in West Texas and otherwise.
So we feel pretty good about our portfolio.
We have opportunities overseas.
We're just drilling a well in Poland.
We're drilling a well in fact our second well in the Duvernay in Canada.
So I think we have a little more than might be commonly recognized but we're not ideologically against these things.
And we have some acreage that we've had for a long time thats held by production in the Delaware basin et cetera that did show some promise as well.
So I think we'll have an opportunity in March Arjun to give you a more thorough update of what we have.
But we're not ideologically opposed to shales.
We just want to enter in a way where we can generate some value.
Research Division</strong> John I realize there's sort of no absolute answer here in the sense that it's always case-by-case specific.
But weve generally presumed some of the joint ventures that some of the international and non-U.S.
companies have done are probably inherently less likely for Chevron to pursue.
Is that true? And then the related follow-up is do you feel a need to add expertise via adding employees of other companies potentially in terms of pursuing U.S.
opportunities? I think it's fair to say that if we were going to take on a significant new opportunity in the U.S.
organizational capability would be a consideration.
When we acquired Atlas we picked up some very good people with that and that was very very helpful to us.
Certainly manpower is at a premium.
So I think that is the important part of what we're looking for.
So what was the other part of your question? Research Division</strong> Just on joint ventures.
Again that's been an avenue for some folks.
We've thought it as less likely for you all.
Well there are 2 aspects to the joint venture.
One is if you come in and are carrying the partner or the operator you're paying a disproportionate level of cost.
And with the gas market where it is that's going to be difficult financially for a period of time.
We acquired Atlas and that came with a carry.
So we like that better.
Second coming in as a non-operator isn't our preferred approach.
If we were going to apply our expertise we'd rather have some degree of control.
We looked at a lot of these different ventures and you had to come in with money and you had to come in and really have the pace and activity and practices dictated by non-operators.
And in many cases those were operators we didn't want to be in that position with.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> John I know you guys have an increase in exploration activity this year.
I was wondering if you could provide an update on exploration in particular Liberia Bear's Hump basin in the Gulf of Mexico.
I think you have 4 to 5 rigs working today and/or some of the shale positions that you mentioned please? Yes we do have quite a bit of exploration activity this year.
As you know we've been accumulating acreage over the last several years.
So where are we drilling wells this year? We have a key well that will be spudded shortly in Liberia.
We've talked about that.
We've got a well drilling now in China.
That's a very encouraging well.
We've got a well drilling now in Poland.
We've got well drilling now in the Duvernay up in Canada.
So we have those -- certainly those that are underway.
In the Gulf of Mexico we have 4 rigs currently.
I should note we have had one dry hole in China.
So we're on our second well there.
In the Gulf of Mexico we have 4 rigs currently.
Right now they're all working salt activity but we do have exploration wells ahead.
We were unable to get the Coronado well down so we're looking for a new location and a new opportunity to drill that well.
And so those are some of the highlights that I would offer in the portfolio this year.
We will have some tests in the Utica that we'll drill this year.
And so that's encouraging and more in the Duvernay.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like there'd be some key exploration results maybe in the 1Q here? Yes.
I don't know...
As the year progresses.
As the year progresses I think the Liberia well will be an interesting one for us.
Research Division</strong> For sure.
The second question I have can you tell me the reserve bookings related to Wheatstone? And then with your recent discovery in addition to the 5 others that could support I think 11 straight right now? They could support a third train in Wheatstone.
I mean how should we -- how will that process develop in 2012 as well as any potential Gorgon expansion where I believe you have space for 5 trains? I'm just thinking you could see within the existing portfolio even an extended growth beyond calendar 2017.
Oh to be sure.
First the Wheatstone booking was 740 million barrels.
And so obviously that was a significant contributor to our reserve adds for the year.
In terms of what's likely to come next we have 3 trains at Gorgon 2 in the foundation project at Wheatstone.
The most likely next step is a fourth train at Gorgon.
And whether we can get to a fifth train on Barrow Island will remain to be seen.
We believe we have the plot space.
But subsequent trains at Wheatstone will likely then follow the fourth train at Gorgon.
And that will be a proportion of the resources that we have accumulated and any third-party activity.
Remember that's a hub site.
And so it'll also be a function of resources that we can bring to that site which bring down fixed costs.
And we're actively working that aspect as well.
Research Division</strong> So are those pre-FEED? Is that an accurate assessment? Yes.
Those are earlier stages.
The one that's most likely for FEED is Train 4 at Gorgon.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
First of all on reserve replacement John obviously a big number at Wheatstone.
But even directing that out it looks like just under 100% replacement from all other sources.
Are you able to provide any further breakdown of the geographic reserve adds? And I think specifically I would be looking at deepwater Gulf of Mexico because I believe last year there were some price implications that prevented you from booking some of the reserves associated that you -- with the projects that are moving forward there.
Yes.
We did make a booking on Jack/St.
Malo this year.
And so -- in fact if you look at the typical categories of extensions et cetera all the categories of reserve movement were positive other than the impact of price and obviously production during the year.
So Big Foot we also made a booking this year.
You'll see more as we -- in the annual report when we disclose it.
But it was fairly broad-based.
We did have bookings in the Marcellus as a result of our activity there as well.
So it was fairly broad-based and positive.
I'll just remind you these things are lumpy.
A year ago when our bookings were a little bit low we said these things are lumpy.
And it's a function of largely major capital project timing.
But we're also doing a lot of very good work in reservoir management to be sure that we're getting the necessary technical work done to book reserves as fast as we can when we know developments are coming and they're really waiting on technical work or determinations to meet booking standards.
So our reservoir management group continues to do good work around the company.
That's great.
And if I could -- with a second question.
Upstream margins obviously comparing you against many of your peers they've been fantastic.
But if I look at the fourth quarter and compare it to your own good history I'm actually looking at capturing about 21% of the Brent price whereas you've been capturing pretty consistently between 23% and 24% of the Brent price really just referring specifically to the international margin.
Is there anything going on in the quarter that makes it non-representational? Or should we be looking at the potential for cost inflation to start eroding that great margin that you had established over the course of 2011? Yes Jason I think I'll take this one if you don't mind.
So realizations generally were relatively flat globally there.
We had higher exploration expense.
I mentioned the seismic activity and the well write-off that we had.
So fourth quarter was a little bit higher on exploration expense.
We also had higher operating expenses I mentioned that.
And then there was additional charges one-time charges tax-related charges in the fourth quarter that you would not see recur again.
And that was -- it was a significant charge there.
I think the general message I would give you is there hasn't been something fundamentally changed in our portfolio.
We have a strong portfolio.
We will continue to perform well particularly with high oil prices.
And in March you'll see us talk a little bit more about our portfolio and some of the new projects coming in because the new projects are very good also.
And they are high return per barrel.
So naturally we've got a range of profitability across the portfolio.
But on balance we think this lead we have is something we're very likely to keep in the kind of oil price environment in particular with the sort of North America gas prices that we're seeing.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> John and Pat and Jeanette several part question if I could.
Pat can you give us a rough idea that -- how's the CapEx trend is going to look like from 2013 until 2017? I presume that there's a number of projects you still need to sanction and that you're probably not going to see any relief? So should we assume that it's going to be up say couple billion dollars on average a year comparing to this year level? Yes.
Paul if I can comment.
The major spend projects we sanctioned and are underway.
And we're heading into a period of heavy construction.
Gorgon Wheatstone Jack/St.
Malo Big Foot all of those projects are kind of in their high-spend period in the period 2012 to '14.
So that's when you should be looking to see kind of -- those are likely to be high-spend years.
And we've given you a number for 2012.
We haven't given numbers beyond that but I would just say that period is likely to be the 3-year period.
The next big project that will add a big tranche of cost is likely to be Future Growth Project at Tengiz.
And we're likely to begin progressing that.
But that's slated for start-up 2017 later later kind of time period.
And so that peak spend will likely be later in the time period.
And same thing goes for the Steamflood Project in the Partition Zone which would be a significant spend.
That's behind these big projects.
So I wouldn't look for a major tranche of increase from beyond what we've talked about during this period.
Research Division</strong> And John we're looking at all the noise surrounding your oil spill in Brazil and also the last couple years that some of  a little bit change in the political wind how they treat the foreign oil company in the country all those add together does that change your view about the commitment of the -- or I shouldn't use the word commitment but the appetite of the company in that country? Well let me make a broader comment.
I think that host governments whether it's the United States China or Brazil have very high expectations for companies like ours.
They expect the best.
We trade on our reputation.
Us and frankly other IOCs trade on our reputation.
And so we get held to a very high standard.
They expect excellence from us.
And when they don't see it they come down hard.
And we've seen that take place elsewhere.
So that's part of what the expectation is and we need to not put oil in the water.
And that's what we work to do every day.
So expectations are high.
Transparency is high and anyone who has an agenda that might not be consistent with our objectives is going to point out any flaws or mistakes that we make.
So we should expect that and we have to deal with it.
We do work very hard to get balance and facts out into these circumstances and assume that rule of law and consistent treatment will prevail.
But certainly expectations are higher today than they might have been 2 or 3 years ago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on the resource base.
I understand it's lumpy in terms of moving into the proven reserve.
Do you have a rough estimate you can give us between 2012 to 2015? How much is your existing probable resource that you can prove into the proven reserve from the major projects? I don't have it.
I mean I would tell you over time we're obviously targeting to replace more than 100% of reserves.
But I don't have a particular target for you.
George will give you a little more -- a little bigger breakdown on -- you'll recall last year he talked about some of our big projects and how much had been booked on those projects.
We'll give you some of that same information in March to try to help you with that.
Our next question comes from Mark Gilman with The Benchmark Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> On Angola LNG could you discuss what marketing arrangements you have underway or in place for the gas? And then I have a follow-up.
Sure.
Mark as you know the project was originally designed to bring gas to the United States.
We've been working with Sonangol and our other partners to put in place a diversion program which of course makes sense given markets in Europe and Asia.
And I expect that over time we'll have the flexibility to move gas to those markets.
So that's basically the plan for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> John if I could just follow-up on that are there any short-term contracts you have in place to move that gas to Asia? Were in the process of contracting kind of as we speak.
And so I don't have for example a destination for the first cargo to share with you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
My follow-up relates to the 2012 production forecast.
I'm wondering are there any production sharing contract thresholds that have entered into that number? And if you could be a little bit more specific in terms of what the volumetric impact might be of the Tombua-Landana disappointment as well as the major Tengiz turn is that a full plant turn for 6 weeks so itll be completely shut down? Or is it something less than that? It is a full plant turnaround.
So it's a very significant event.
In terms of other PSC effects the PSC effects can vary by price.
So there are different impacts in the $70 range in the $90 range in the $110 range.
So they do vary.
But I'm not going to get into the specifics of those.
Jeanette may have a comment here.
Mark I think youre asking were we going to hit any PSC triggers in 2012 and there's no major trigger in our forecast that we're expecting.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the Tombua-Landana issue? Performance hasn't been up to what we had expected and we're dealing with it to see if we can resolve some of the issues.
But the production's a little shy of -- what we said is production was a little bit shy of what we had built in the plan this year.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could I ask a couple of questions again on LNG? You took FID on Wheatstone with I think a kind of industry low in terms of the amount of gas which had been marketed.
Are you keeping some of this back for your own marketing operation? Or do you intend to contract that completely say during this year? And secondly on Browse this one seems to be slipping quite a long way down the program in Australia.
Is this a project now you've kind of put in the post-2020 start-up frame given the difficulty there? Yes.
A couple comments.
First we've been pretty successful in our gas marketing.
We're about 70% under SPA at Gorgon about 60% in Wheatstone.
And we continue to have good conversations with gas customers.
Recall some have been impacted by -- some of the contracting has been impacted by the events around Fukushima.
So it's been a very sensitive and difficult time for some of the Japanese customers.
So I expect that as we move along we'll get into 85% 90% range.
And every indication I have based on my conversations with our gas people is that particularly with some events taking place around the world there's plenty of demand out there at similar pricing to what we're seeing today.
But we're 60% at Wheatstone and I expect we'll move forward successfully.
Browse.
Oh and Browse.
Browse I'm probably best referring you to Woodside who's the operator there.
I think the intent of partnership is to keep the retention licenses in place.
Remember there are some conditions that were put on development.
There were some actions that were required of the partnership in order to retain the retention licenses.
And the partners have been working through the economics of the scheme that was put forward by the operator.
And so I don't want to prejudge or comment on that.
I'll just say that we're committed.
We're certainly committed to developing the resource and it has to be done in an economic way.
But I probably need to leave that to Woodside as they're the operator.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could I ask just one very quick follow-up on something you answered earlier in terms of the impact of the Tengiz Future Growth Project on future CapEx.
Are you basically saying to us that $30 billion $33 billion is kind of where Chevron's going to be for the next 6 7 years in terms of overall spend? No.
I didn't say that.
What I said was '12 '13 and '14 are peak years because of the LNG projects.
And if you simply did math and took out those expenditures you would see a big drop off.
But we continually add items into the hopper and the Future Growth Project is one of those.
But it doesn't mean spending will necessarily be at this $33 billion level.
Our final question comes from Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I believe in  -- last year when you guys put out your original budget for 2011 you talked about a $26 billion budget and you came in at $29 billion for 2011.
So if you can talk about what caused that budget for -- what caused the number for '11 to be higher than your original budget? And you can also talk about for 2012 what the major variables are that can influence the budget for 2012 as we get to the end of the year.
Sure.
I'll let Pat take that one.
Okay yes.
So principally there were 2 items that I'd call your attention to.
One we did a little bit of coring up around the Atlas acquisition property so a little bit of coring up around the Marcellus.
That was not planned at the time we put out the original target there.
And I would also say because of the strong price environment particularly in the U.S.
we've had additional activity in the U.S.
And that led to -- those 2 items really account for that increase of about $3 billion.
In terms of any other outlook changes that we've got relative to the planned C&amp;E target for 2012 there's nothing that comes to mind that we need to update you about.
We feel good about the $32.7 billion figure that we've put out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then on your guidance for corporate expense you said that was going to be a little bit higher this year versus kind of last year.
Is it the major incidences kind of between Nigeria and Brazil that are influencing that corporate expense number? No.
Actually if you look back we have had the corporate guidance in that sector be $250 million to $350 million for quite some time several years in fact.
And all I was really trying to do was acknowledge the fact that we do have corporate departments whose salaries go up a little bit over time.
In this particular case we had some additional pension expense that's related to the funding position of our pension and I expect a little bit of that to be higher in 2012.
So it's really just trying to give you a little bit of better guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly on the Coronado you said the well was not able to get down or you did not drill the well in Coronado? We drilled the well.
We weren't able to get down.
It couldn't get through the salt.
Okay with that thank you Sean.
In closing let me say we certainly appreciate everyone's participation in today's call.
I especially want to thank each of the analysts on behalf of all the participants for their very good questions during this morning's sessions.
Goodbye.
Thank you and we'll see you in March.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you Sean.
Welcome to Chevron's first quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today is Jeanette Ourada General Manager Investor Relations.
We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement on Slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
It was a strong quarter financially among one of the best we've ever had.
The company's first quarter earnings were $6.5 billion or $3.27 per diluted share.
Comparing the first quarter 2012 to the same quarter a year earlier our earnings were up 4%.
Upstream benefited from higher crude prices while Downstream improved on gains from asset sales.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 21%.
Our debt ratio at the end of March was just under 7%.
In the first quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares.
In the second quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.
Turning to Slide 4.
On Wednesday Chevron's Board of Directors approved a $0.90 per share common stock quarterly dividend.
This is an 11.1% increase in the quarterly rate.
This is our 25th consecutive year of higher dividend payments.
Also 2012 is an important milestone for us as it represents a remarkable 100 years of uninterrupted dividend payments to our shareholders.
Turning now to Slide 5.
Cash generated from operations was $8.4 billion during the first quarter.
At quarter end our cash balances totaled nearly $20 billion.
Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparison.
Jeanette? Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 6.
I'll compare results of the first quarter 2012 with the fourth quarter 2011.
As a reminder our earnings release compares first quarter 2012 with the same quarter a year ago.
First quarter earnings were $6.5 billion over $1.3 billion higher than the fourth quarter.
Upstream earnings were up $434 million driven by higher crude oil realizations and lower operating expenses partly offset by lower volumes.
Downstream results improved by $865 million between quarters resulting from lower operating expenses better margins and gains on asset sales.
The variance in the other bar reflects lower corporate charges.
On Slide 7 our Upstream earnings for the first quarter were $76 million lower than the fourth quarter's results.
Realizations lowered earnings by $20 million.
A 31% drop in natural gas realizations reduced earnings by about $70 million.
This was partially offset by a 3% increase in liquids realizations which improved earnings by $50 million.
About 2/3 of our U.S.
crude sales are in the Gulf of Mexico and California where heavy Louisiana sweet Mars and Midway Sunset crude markers experienced only modest increases in the quarter.
The remaining 1/3 of our U.S.
crude sales are in the Midcontinent where West Texas crude markers increased more dramatically.
Lower sales volumes decreased earnings by $15 million between periods.
We had one fewer day in the first quarter and lower production resulting from the sale of Alaskan assets partly offset by higher production in the Gulf of Mexico.
Lower operating expenses improved earnings by $125 million between periods primarily due to reduced maintenance activities and employee costs.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including the absence of gains on several small asset sales and higher depreciation expenses.
Turning to Slide 8.
International Upstream earnings were up $510 million relative to the fourth quarter.
Higher realizations benefited earnings by $555 million.
Average liquids realizations increased 9% in line with the increase in average Brent spot prices.
Natural gas realizations rose 8% between quarters contributing about $100 million to the positive earnings variance.
Lower liftings across multiple countries decreased earnings by $195 million.
Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $250 million driven by -- primarily by a decrease in employee expenses.
Moving to the next bar an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects lowered earnings by $205 million.
The first quarter had a loss of $208 million compared to a loss of $3 million in the fourth quarter.
These foreign exchange effects are primarily balance sheet translation effects for which there are no direct impacts on cash.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including a net favorable tax effect partly offset by higher exploration expense including dry holes in China.
Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil-equivalent production.
Between quarters production decreased 10 000 barrels per day.
Higher prices reduced volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts decreasing production about 7 000 barrels per day.
Average Brent spot prices increased about $9 between quarters.
Base business combined with external constraints decreased production 17 000 barrels per day.
The decrease was largely due to the sale of our Alaska Cook Inlet natural gas properties a planned turnaround in Angola and adverse weather conditions in Australia and Kazakhstan.
The Alaska sale reduced production by 17 000 barrels oil equivalent per day.
Offsetting these negative variances were the absence of planned turnarounds in Trinidad and at Tahiti and the Gulf of Mexico.
Contributions for major capital projects increased first quarter production by 14 000 barrels per day primarily driven by the ramp-up of Platong II in Thailand and improved reliability at Perdido partly offset by well shut-ins at Frade in Brazil.
In total Frade reduced quarterly production by about 10 000 barrels per day.
As we called out in the interim update the incremental impact to the quarter as a result of shutting down the field mid-March was about 5 000 barrels per day.
Also reducing production in the quarter was the drilling ban and shut in of one producing well required by Brazilian regulators in late 2011.
Since the field -- since the full field shut in the ongoing impact to net production is estimated to be about 33 000 barrels per day.
We are progressing with a comprehensive technical study to better understand the geological features of the field.
We will resume production in the Frade field only when we are completely satisfied we can restart production safely and when we have obtained the full support of our partners and the Brazilian regulators.
Excluding impacts from Brazil the remainder of our portfolio remains on pace to meet the production guidance we gave in January.
We'll give you an update on the second quarter call.
Turning to Slide 10.
We've had a number of questions recently about the PSCs in our portfolio.
We wanted to take a few minutes today to explain exactly how we define PSC-related terms and how changes in price impact our net production.
PSCs currently account for about 25% of our net production.
In addition we have contracts with variable royalties that make up about another 12%.
In PSC and variable royalty contracts production can vary as a result of changes in commodity price level of investment and operating costs.
Some contracts also have triggers that reduce our net entitlement when certain rate of return or production thresholds are reached.
Each quarter we give you a price effect variance and a sensitivity to Brent comparing to the prior period.
When we say price effect we are only including the impact on production due to changes in commodity prices.
We do not include in this price effect variance other items that may impact net production such as changes in investment or operating costs.
If a nonprice driver were material we would call it out separately for instance as higher or lower cost recovery.
We would also call out the impact of triggers if they were material.
Under a PSC or variable-royalty contract the barrels we are entitled to typically decline as prices increase.
As illustrated on the chart this is because fewer barrels are required to recover costs at higher prices.
Moreover as costs are recovered the split of profit oil typically declines for the IOC participants.
We measure this price sensitivity relative to Brent and the relationship is not linear.
Each year during our planning cycle we create price sensitivity curves and evaluate the potential impact of price across the portfolio.
The curve changes slightly year-to-year but the relationships shown have been fairly consistent over the last several years.
We're currently in the $110 to $130 per barrel range and our sensitivity is around 700 barrels per dollar change in Brent.
During the planning process we also review potential triggers.
Based on our last review using average 2011 price levels we do not foresee any material triggers in the next few years.
While rising prices do slightly reduce our production volumes the positive impact on our earnings is much more significant.
For our portfolio at current price levels there is a 40:1 relationship between the impact of higher earnings across the portfolio compared to the reduction in earnings due to price effects.
Let me give you an example and to keep it simple let's start with a Brent price of $110.
A $10 increase in Brent results in about a $3 per barrel increase in earnings margin.
We produce roughly 1 billion barrels per year so that generates about $3 billion in additional annual earnings.
The same $10 increase in Brent reduces our production by 7 000 barrels per day because the sensitivity in this range is 700 barrels per dollar change in Brent.
The 7 000 barrels per day valued at our current earnings margin is worth about $70 million.
So at the portfolio level we gain $3 billion in annual earnings due to higher prices and lose $70 million due to price effects.
Or thinking about it as a ratio we gain $40 of earnings to every $1 we lose to price effects.
Governments benefit even more.
Higher taxes on our increased revenue higher revenue from their share of production and additional volumes from the impact we just discussed.
All of this is built into our peer-leading earnings margin which for this quarter is $26.79 per barrel.
Based on available competitor results we maintained our #1 ranking continuing to outdistance our nearest competitor by over $7 per barrel.
Next let's move to Downstream.
Turning to Slide 11.
U.S.
Downstream earnings increased $663 million in the first quarter.
Margins improved earnings by almost $300 million driven by better refining margins in both the Gulf Coast and West Coast.
Refinery maintenance in both regions plus continued product export demand on the Gulf Coast drove stronger crack spreads.
Lower maintenance activity in the Chevron system across multiple refineries was the primary driver for higher produced volumes which increased earnings by $100 million.
Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $200 million resulting from lower employee costs and the lower maintenance activity I just mentioned.
Chemical earnings increased by $90 million due to higher ethylene margins and stronger sales volumes.
The other bar consists of several unrelated items including lower trading results.
On Slide 12 international Downstream earnings were $202 million higher this quarter.
Refining and marketing margins fell reducing earnings by $55 million.
This resulted from planned turnaround activities causing changes to crude slates and marketing margins being squeezed as prices rose.
Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $130 million resulting from reduced employee maintenance and environmental costs.
Gains from asset sales in Spain and Canada improved earnings by $195 million.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items.
Timing effects represented a $225 million negative variance due to unfavorable inventory impacts during a period of rising prices.
This was offset by a favorable foreign currency effect net positive tax items and higher chemicals and shipping results.
First quarter's foreign exchange loss was about $15 million compared to the fourth quarter loss of about $85 million.
Slide 13 covers all other.
First quarter net charges were $504 million compared to a net $553 million charge in the fourth quarter a decrease of $49 million between periods.
A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $4 million benefit to earnings.
Corporate charges were $45 million lower than in the fourth quarter.
You will note we exceeded the upper end of the guidance range we provided in January.
If you look back over several years you will see this is a typical pattern where first quarter net charges have often been 30% to 35% of the full year cost.
Thus we believe our quarterly guidance range of $300 million to $400 million for net charges in all other segments is still appropriate going forward.
Now I'd like to turn it back over to Pat.
Thank you Jeanette.
Turning now to Slide 14.
Last month at our Security Analyst Meeting in New York we presented our financial results and gave you a competitive perspective based on information then available for our peers.
We now have complete information to fully assess our performance on a relative basis and I want to share the updated slides with you.
Our overall ROCE was stellar in 2011 and was also very strong on a segmented basis.
In the Upstream our ROCE was 29% so we moved into a #1 position relative to our peers.
This is a tremendous achievement.
In the Downstream we also delivered a strong performance with an ROCE of 14%.
Here we continue to narrow the gap with the top ROCE peer performer.
For the Upstream we have updated peer results for both realizations and costs as depicted now on Slide 15.
Our realizations have exceeded those of our peers for the second consecutive year and are now more than $5 higher than our nearest competitors.
Our Upstream costs increased last year largely driven by higher oil prices and the resulting impact from royalties taxes and fuel costs.
Our cost structure is very competitive.
Even with the oiliest portfolio where costs of producing oil are higher than the costs of producing natural gas we improved our relative ranking and are now at #2 in our peer group.
Slide 16 shows the updated cash margin comparison.
With a leading position in realization and a competitive cost structure we've delivered an unmatched cash margin.
Our 2011 -- Chevron's cash margins were nearly $39 per barrel and our #1 position remains intact outperforming our nearest competitor by 40% or over $10 per barrel.
This performance is as a result of the strength of our portfolio and our focus on selecting and executing well on the right projects.
Turning now to Slide 17.
I'd like to share a few highlights of Chevron's strategic progress during the quarter.
In the Upstream both the Usan project offshore Nigeria and the Caesar/Tonga field in the Gulf of Mexico achieved first production.
Both deepwater projects are expected to ramp up to peak production within 1 year.
We recently announced the signing of a Heads of Agreement with Chubu Electric to deliver 1 million tons per annum of LNG from our Wheatstone Project.
With this agreement Chevron now has over 70% of our equity LNG from Wheatstone covered under long-term offtake agreements.
In the Downstream we sanctioned a multiyear expansion of our Singapore additives plant.
The first phase of the expansion is targeted to start up in 2014.
We also continued our Downstream portfolio rationalization efforts completing asset sales in Spain and Canada.
And finally we signed an agreement for the sale of our Perth Amboy terminal which we expect to complete later this year.
Turning now to Slide 18.
Looking ahead we are keenly focused on executing our major capital projects.
We have line of sight on many of the significant milestones planned for this year.
We're off to a good start and we intend to keep you updated on our progress throughout the year.
In summary we started the year with strong earnings and healthy cash flows.
We are focused on safe and reliable base business operations and progressing our major capital projects.
We continue to be disciplined in our investments and in managing our cost structure.
And as we just demonstrated with our dividend announcement we're committed to sharing our success with our shareholders.
That now concludes our prepared remarks and we welcome your questions.
So Sean I'd ask that you open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> And my first question is since we have Pat on the call my first question is on the large cash position that you oversee.
Net cash is growing again in the quarter.
And first on the dividend with the 11% raise versus a 6% CAGR that drives a higher dividend yield and a more publicized raise by one of your peers.
So is this a onetime increase or a design to draw down some of your excess cash position over time? Can you kind of provide some color on why and how you made the relatively higher raise in this quarter? And then secondly with a larger portfolio of capital projects and our view of a higher capital budget in '13 should we expect you to run a relatively higher cash position through 2014 when the free cash flow usually jumps and the new project queues begin to come onstream? Okay Evan let me take a shot at that.
First with respect to our dividend the 11% rate we felt was fully in-line with the cash generation capability of the firm currently and also as we look out.
We have strong confidence in our cash flows coming forward.
And also if you look at our history really since oil prices began to appreciate back in 2004 we've had a CAGR on dividends that has been just about at the 11%.
So I think of it as being fairly typical with our previous patterns.
Last year you'll recall that we had 2 dividend increases that combined gave us a 12.5% quarterly rate increase.
So we feel we've been very competitive on the dividend.
I don't want to get into a position of having to step out in front of our Board of Directors on this so I can't provide any future guidance as to what the remainder part of the year might look like.
But suffice it to say that dividends are a very important priority in terms of our uses of cash.
It is our in fact the #1 priority so we'll look carefully at that every quarter.
In terms of the second part of your question about our cash balances and as we look out in terms of funding needs I think we have been pretty specific in saying that 2012 is really it's the high C&amp;E year.
We've got significant LNG commitments.
We've got significant deepwater commitments.
And as we get further along into having some of these projects move into -- past the 50% mark on their construction phase I think we will feel better about relinquishing some of our cash cushion.
We really think of that cash cushion as being a risk mitigator to be able to handle commodity price swings and margin swings.
These are really important projects that we keep completely on track from a funding standpoint and so having a little bit of cash cushion as we're on this heavy investment phase seems to make a great deal of sense to us.
Research Division</strong> Great I appreciate that.
And second if I may.
I know you recently signed a Chubu -- the Japanese power company in long-term offtake for Wheatstone.
I mean maybe have you seen any changes here in this slope or the oil price linkage versus other offtakes signed for Gorgon and Wheatstone and any comments just on maybe general demand levels? I know you're going to market an additional 10% to 20% of that gas.
Actually we've been very heartened by discussions that we've had most recently with potential buyers of LNG whether it be Wheatstone or Gorgon.
I would say in a post-Fukushima environment we haven't had seen any degradation of terms on these contract and discussions that we have had.
Our objective for both of the projects really is to get into an 85-ish percent of the offtake under secure long-term agreements and we're really well on path for both of those major projects.
Our next question comes from Doug Terreson of ISI.
Research Division</strong> And my question is -- has to do with Slide 15 I think indicates that operating costs increased by around 10% to 15% annually during the past 5 years.
So my question is that with your global perspective I want to see how you envision this trend evolving in coming years? Or what you're seeing over maybe a term when using the Chevron oil price deck? Well actually Doug I think the way we look at this is over time there's been a fairly steady pattern between an increase in the overall cost structure as associated with an increase in the overall revenue structure.
So we have not seen any discontinuities of any -- in any way shape or form to show that.
And so I think it would be reasonable if you're thinking about how to project out using your own oil price forecast.
I think keeping a somewhat common relationships in that profile would make sense.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So -- and secondly I wanted to see if we could get a kind of a summary update or brief update to the degree possible on the situations in Brazil and Ecuador? There's been movement on both and just any color or next steps that you can provide on these 2 situations please? Sure.
Let me start.
I'll start with Ecuador here.
I think the most important thing that has happened of late is that The Hague has accepted jurisdiction and -- for the case and has basically reiterated their requirement that Ecuador do -- take all means that it can through the judiciary through the executive branch through the legislative branch to prevent enforcement of the judgment anywhere in the globe.
So that has been a positive step.
In terms of the local Lago Agrio case it has been remanded or is sent to the equivalent of the Supreme Court in Ecuador but has not yet been accepted there.
So I can't give you any more color there.
I can't speak to timing.
And I do encourage everybody to continue to look at our website because we put everything that's happening out there on that website.
In terms of Brazil the criminal case against our employees and the 2 civil cases against the company have been sent or remanded to the Rio de Janeiro court out of the Campos court.
And we are still very confident that a transparent and an impartial review of the facts will demonstrate that Chevron and its employees acted very responsibly acted very appropriately to the incident that we didn't violate any laws or regulations.
We will continue to defend our employees to the fullest extent.
And as Jeanette said we have a technical review of the Frade field underway to better understand the entire geology there.
And we won't restart production until we have a complete confidence ourselves in the reliability and the safety and the ability to do so and we are working lockstep with the regulators and with our partners on that.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you had any update in terms of cost inflation trends in some of your major Gulf of Mexico projects? You've obviously got Jack/St.
Malo I think Tubular Bells Big Foot Buckskin in various stages of progression.
I think Hess on their call alluded to potentially some inflation on Tubular Bells.
I'm just seeing if you're seeing that across your Gulf project portfolio? So Arjun actually we're -- I don't have any specific information to point to.
I don't -- there's nothing that's come to mind that is material at this point.
Research Division</strong> So you're feeling good about the estimates you provided for those projects? Yes we are and we're feeling good about the schedule for them.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
Can you provide a -- just an activity update on the Marcellus and the Utica? Obviously gas prices are very low.
You do have the carry there.
Can you just provide any color on how you're thinking about drilling plans in the Marcellus? And any thoughts on how the Utica's progressing for you if you have any results you can talk about there? Sure Arjun.
Okay I'd say the Marcellus all of our activities are going according to plan.
And in fact we are ramping up we will continue to ramp up as the year progresses.
We're seeing some efficiencies some cost efficiencies as we had expected.
Safety is going well and as I said production will ramp up.
In terms of the Utica we're really just doing site preparation pad preparation at this point and drilling will begin a little bit later in the year And we'll have to report on that in the second and third quarter calls but it's really just site preparation at this point in time.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the cash statement.
Obviously $8.4 billion cash from operations.
Were there any sort of negative effects like working capital in that? Can you quantity that? Yes Ed certainly I can.
Inventory was a big effect in the first quarter here.
And actually as you look at the variance compared to fourth quarter it's an even bigger variance.
So we had a drawdown in inventory in the fourth quarter that released cash of about $0.5 billion dollars and we had a build of inventory in the first quarter that consumed cash by about $1.8 billion.
So you have over a $2 billion swing there in just inventory alone on cash.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
So I mean if I add that back -- cash flow probably before working capital would be somewhere over $10 billion? Yes be close -- very good.
Research Division</strong> Yes just on the -- the CapEx run rate seems a bit low at the -- just at the beginning of the year.
Is that just the usual timing? Actually it is.
We look at this every year and we have a typical pattern.
And first quarter 2012 looks just like the first quarter of the last 7 years in terms of its rate of spending relative to the full year spending.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just to follow up on our operational side any update in terms of activity rates as you perhaps start to delineate some of the shale that you have in the Permian? I don't know that I've got anything more than what we said just a month ago or so.
The overall activity level our expectation was to have about 200 wells participation in 200 wells over the course of the year and that is exactly where we exactly where we sit.
Our next question comes from Robert Kessler with Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask for a little bit more color around the variability in your operating expense? It just strikes me as interesting that basically both key segments in both the U.S.
and international swung the same direction both last quarter as a negative and this quarter as a positive.
And you seem to mention in all cases employee cost as a variable there.
It seems to imply that there's some sort of common central variance that's allocated as an overhead to the segments.
Severance for example or something like that.
Is that in fact the case? And if so can you speak to any underlying cost trends unique to the segments on OpEx as opposed to a corporate-level allocation? Sure.
You picked up exactly on some of the messaging that we had there.
We've got a compensation system where we have pay at risk for a large part of our employee population.
And so the payment is awarded based on performance against targets and also relative competitive performance.
So we make an assessment in the fourth quarter of each year as to how well we've done and 2011 was a strong performance year for us.
And that's really what you see as the variance between the costs incurred in the fourth quarter and then the absence of those costs really here in the fourth quarter.
That's really one of the primary drivers that you see.
In terms of the overall cost structure around the globe they're really -- other than this one particular variance that I've talked to there hasn't been anything of significance that is noteworthy or different.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would you characterize your Upstream kind of global lease operating expenses relatively steady over the last couple of quarters? Yes I think it has been fairly steady over the last couple of quarters.
If you recall in 2011 we did call out -- it's about a $1.3 billion increase in operating expense due to a gas for oil swap agreement and it was replaced with a purchasing agreement in Indonesia.
So if you're looking at year-over-year that may be what you're seeing.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel of Macquarie.
I had 2 actually if I could please.
First Angola LNG.
Would you say you're still on schedule to potentially lift the cargo from the project in June? And would you expect that you would be sending most of these cargoes into Asia rather than the original plan of moving to the Gulf Coast? And also how should we think about production from Angola LNG? Are you guys actually able to recognize equity gas here or is this gas that actually belongs to Senegal? Okay.
So in terms of the cargo our expectation is that the first cargo would be available and lifted in sort of the middle of this quarter here certainly by the end of the second quarter.
In terms of ownership of that cargo we believe the first offtaker will be one of the partners but it's not clear yet.
I don't think the decision has been made yet as to who that necessarily will be.
And in terms of the gas ownership it's ours.
And we will recognize production as LNG is produced.
Okay that's great.
And then I'm just trying to think about second quarter volumes at this point.
The liftings difference that you showed in the variance chart were you actually underlifted in 1Q and would expect to make up those volumes in 2Q? And do you have any significant maintenance activity that we should be thinking about for 2Q? So remember when we showed the liftings really what that is is a variance of sales between quarters.
So if you just want to look at the under/overlift within the quarter we had a very slight overlift in the first quarter.
It's about 0.5%.
Okay great.
And any planned maintenance? Well we won't -- we don't forecast for the second quarter but we did have about 50 000 barrels a day.
Well that's a variance between -- we had a substantial amount in the first quarter and quite substantial at TCO.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Two questions if I could.
One Pat can you talk about whether any of your investment program in Argentina either in your thinking or that the actual spending level may or may not have changed after the recent nationalization announcement of YPF? The second one in Venezuela you have I think a couple of years ago signed a new agreement with PDVSA on a heavy oil upgrading project Carabobo 3.
I think that you may actually have pay some upfront fees for that or a bonus for that.
I want to see if there's any status update on that one.
Okay sure.
First of all in Argentina I would just say that any time you see an expropriation of assets like has occurred and you're an IOC and you go in under certain contract terms and places all around the globe and you see that happening in a location it does give you pause.
I mean we do believe in contract sanctity and so it makes you certainly sit up and take notice.
In terms of our particular activity there hasn't been any change.
In fact we did just extend our concession extension in the El Trapial concession for an additional 10 years now.
We have a concession now to 2032.
So work continues apace there but we do certainly take notice of it that's for sure.
In terms of Venezuela both in our Carabobo and our Delta creek project stay under the evaluation phase we're working hard to identify appropriate kind of commercial development opportunities there.
Research Division</strong> So you don't actually have any actual spending or major spending in those project yet? We don't have any major spending on those projects at this point.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Back to the balance sheet Pat you've got 6.9% debt ratio presented here which obviously is the gross debt right? So the net debt is closer to over 8% cash positive? Correct.
Research Division</strong> And there's $19 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
Firstly I was wondering about the debt paydown.
What was the rationale for that given -- I would have thought it's better to carry more not less in this interested rate environment? Right and that was just an internal operational event for us.
We happened to move from a proprietary issuance of commercial paper to a dealer issuance.
We just decided that it wasn't a business we needed to be in.
We made the transition at the end of the first quarter here.
And while we were doing that transition we just wanted to get the balances down low just to make sure we didn't have any glitches anywhere.
So that's just strictly an internal Chevron operational thing so I wouldn't read anything into that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The -- to retain the AA rating which I know you've repeated many times is a key aim I guess you could probably carry about $10 billion of net debt without threatening that? Well actually Paul the way I look at it is it really depends on what you're using the borrowing for.
If you have significant commercial opportunities or M&amp;A opportunities or whatever I mean the substance of the increase in the debt is really important for evaluating for the rating agencies how they view your creditworthiness.
And they take into account a lot more than just the financial parameters as you now know.
They look at a lot of our Upstream and Downstream operating performance parameters and assessing that rating.
So I think we have a tremendous amount of borrowing capacity under the right circumstances and still have the ability to maintain the AA.
Research Division</strong> Yes I guess what I'm driving at is the scale of the safety cushion you've got here does seem to be kind of extreme with $19 billion of cash.
I would have thought that you could be very very safe and not have to carry quite so much unless this is going to be the mother of all CapEx overruns.
No we're not anticipating -- using your [ph] terminology here I don't want to even use that phrase again but we're not anticipating overruns on our capital program.
It really is a circumstance for keeping some cushion now while we're in this heavy investment period and acknowledging that you've got the opportunity.
It may be a very low opportunity or very low probability for excursion south on crude prices or real deterioration in margins but we want to make sure that we've got enough to live through this heavy investment phase.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay because I was just thinking that kind of more buyback because you haven't -- the buyback's basically unchanged right? So...
That's right.
And we will look at the buybacks every quarter.
We do it every quarter.
This quarter we were focused on the dividend here which I think was a tremendously strong message about our confidence in future cash flows.
Obviously as we go and as every quarter goes by and you've got reasonably higher oil prices we continue to move the projects through to a higher stage of completion then obviously our requirements around cash lessen.
And we will evaluate the share repurchase program as we do every quarter with our Board of Directors.
Research Division</strong> Yes and I think -- you stated if I recall at the Analyst Meeting that you felt that it was going to be kind of end 2013 that you would be if you like more confident about CapEx final CapEx numbers in the safe? I don't recall giving a 2013 date.
I just -- we just know that we've got these significant projects Gorgon Wheatstone Jack/St.
Malo Big Foot Deepwater Nigeria et cetera where we've got a large profile here for 2012 and certainly the LNG continuing here into 2013.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And my second question would be on volumes for this year.
Forgive me if I missed this but is there a guidance? I mean you had a -- previously had a if you like a target for the year.
Is there a reset number for that for 2012? At this point we're sticking with the guidance that we gave at the very beginning of the year.
We did acknowledge here as much information as we have about Frade.
George will be on the call here in the second quarter and we'll update you at that point in time.
I'll just say as we look forward the things that are important to us here the portfolio is performing on plan outside of Frade so we feel good about the number that we gave again outside of Frade.
Frade we don't have enough information to be able to say how that will play out here in the second quarter third quarter et cetera.
The ramp-up of ALNG is an important parameter for us.
The ramp-up of Usan is an important parameter for us and the TCO SGI/SGP turnaround is an important parameter and all of those will be important factors in 2012 production.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick Upstream ones.
First U.S.
gas production was down about 10% from the fourth quarter.
Was that a price-related shut-in? Well U.S.
gas would be the Alaska Cook Inlet sale.
That property alone -- that property sale alone was worth about 17 000 barrels a day on a BOE basis.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so no shut-ins in your existing assets there? No I mean I will say that we are -- we already have our portfolio and we have been working our portfolio to as minimal dry gas as we possibly can.
The only exception that we've got going there would be Marcellus and Marcellus has got the $1.3 billion carry.
I guess it's actually now about a $1.2 billion carry because we've used some of it now since March.
But we are definitely focused on liquids-rich plays.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Liberia can you just confirm that the first prospect is in fact spudding this week and maybe provide a time line for results from that? Well we -- I can tell you that its spudding is imminent.
I hate to go out further on a limb than that and I really don't have any more information as to how long it will be and what the evaluation period will be et cetera.
So...
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> On your -- could you give us a little bit of an update on your exploration -- the exploration wells you drilled in the first quarter? I believe you were still looking for results from Bear's Hump and then you were drilling a well in the Duvernay and the Pearl Mouth Basin in China.
And also if you can give us a little bit of an update on what you will try to drill in the second quarter? Okay so Bear's Hump is -- the drilling results are basically are still being evaluated.
In the Duvernay we are on our third well and we are I guess I would say encouraged from that standpoint.
And what was the third area? China.
Oh China.
So China we did have our third dry hole.
That was -- the quarter recognized 2 of those dry holes here.
And so we've had our third dry hole 1 each in the 3 blocks.
But I will say we have significant acreage there and some of the results were encouraging and those results will be used then to help us do the next site selection for the follow-on drilling program.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your future lineup here for the second quarter? I believe you're going to spud Coronado or have you already spud that well? No Coronado would be later in the year.
I don't have a definitive time for Coronado.
And most of our drilling rig activity right now in the Gulf of Mexico are focused on development wells.
We've got 4 rigs drilling on development wells for the Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot properties.
And we have the Santa Ana coming which actually is in the Gulf of Mexico now and will be soon available for drilling operations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us an update on North American onshore rig activity? How many rigs are you running in North America and how many of those are devoted to kind of liquids-rich or oil-rich plays? Yes I don't have specific rig activity in North America.
I can just tell you that in the Marcellus we continue to execute the evaluation and development plan that we laid out.
You'll see a gradual ramp-up in Marcellus production over the course of the year.
And Wolfcamp we were pretty specific in saying we expected to participate in 200 wells there.
Those are liquids-rich plays.
And I guess I would say from a -- going back to the natural gas versus crude or liquids component there I mean all of the gas that we've got here really is liquids focused.
Everything that we're producing is cash breakeven or better on the natural gas side.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can I come back to your production your PSC sensitivity guidance? This is very useful actually.
And on the trigger part of it I think you said that there's no triggers coming from rate of return or production thresholds over the next few years.
Is it possible to say what oil price you assess that at? Yes we used the 2011 average prices so around $110 per barrel for that sensitivity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and that includes fields which have just started up such as Usan I presume? Yes that included the whole portfolio.
We create a curve for each PSC and then combine them together and test each one and then test at the portfolio level.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on cost oil -- cost recovery is it possible to say -- is there any kind of major fields coming out of the major part of cost oil which is the CapEx recovery over a similar period? Over that same period not a lot I would say.
So if you would have asked me 2 years ago we probably would have talked about Agbami.
But I think we've talked about -- we pushed Agbami 2 back a little bit because the first set of wells were performing exceptionally well.
And pushing Agbami 2 investment back a bit has really muted any type of decline you see in cost oil.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and nothing in Angola? Nothing material in Angola no.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay interesting.
And on a different topic could you tell us what the status is of the Nigerian gas blowout? Yes actually.
So we continue at this point to drill the relief well and to set ourselves up to permanently plug and abandon it.
We haven't had any gas detected from the well since the fire stopped burning in the very early part of March.
The relief well is fairly close to the intersection point.
And our expectation at this point would be that if we're successful there then we would a permanently abandoned well by the end of May.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what sort of production has been shut-in due to this? A few thousand barrels a day huh? It's very very very modest.
It is just 2 000 barrels a day.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And there's been no knock-on effect from regulators those Brazilian style labor [ph] reaction? No we have been working very closely with the Nigerian government and the regulators the local communities to move this along constructively.
Our next question comes from Kate Minyard of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick point of clarification.
On Slide 9 you walked through the variability in production versus the prior quarter.
And if I caught you correctly I believe you said the Alaska sale was about a 17 000 barrel equivalent per day impact.
But then you also had mentioned the Angola turnaround.
So it looks like the Alaska sale might have accounted for the entire block of net production constraints or the impact on the base business? Or am I -- was it a timing issue with the Alaska sale? Thanks Kate.
There's certainly a lot embedded in that 17 000.
So we also called out the negative additional impacts.
We had a planned turnaround in Angola and then we also had some cyclones in Australia and some pretty severe weather in Kazakhstan through the quarter so those were both negative.
But offsetting those we had turnarounds in the fourth quarter in both Trinidad and then in the Gulf of Mexico we were installing the water injection module on Tahiti.
So both of those were positive impacts for the quarter that kind of offset each other.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it that's clear.
And then just one other question on the -- just looking at the tax rate was there anything about the geographic distribution of the overlift that resulted in maybe a variability in the tax rate? It looks like your tax rate was coming in just a little bit lower than what we would have previously modeled.
So is there anything about the mix shift based on the overlift that might have driven that? Or is this kind of the right run rate kind of all else equal? Actually our tax rate came in for the quarter at about a 46% rate and it's a little higher than we have seen here.
And what we really had is just jurisdictional mix effect between -- within international operations as well as within the Downstream.
In the Downstream too we also had the asset sales and those came through with essentially a very low effective tax rates.
And so by default that in fact makes our overall worldwide income more internationally Upstream-oriented here from a tax rate standpoint and so that tends to boost the number.
If you look forward I would say our best guidance would be in the mid-40% range on a go-forward basis for us.
Our final question comes from Allen Good of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions surrounding your comments on domestic drilling and the preference for liquids over dry gas.
Was that in reference just sort of drilling activity or were you referring as well to acreage additions? And if so was there any acreage additions in the first quarter that would be material compared to what the -- I guess the acreage breakout you gave us during the Analyst Day that would have changed in those allocations significantly? All right.
We haven't had any material acreage additions here in the first quarter.
So what we provided back in March is the latest update that we have there.
And I was really talking about drilling activity and our focus on production and trying to ensure that we are value-focused in our production efforts and our drilling efforts.
Research Division</strong> So as far as acreage additions and I don't even want to go as far as saying maybe potentially acquisitions but as far as dry gas I mean is there any more interest here given the level of prices and potential attractiveness of assets? Or is that just something that's completely off the table at this point? I don't think we want to -- I don't think we ever take anything off the table.
I think we're -- I just would emphasize our value approach here.
And if there is a combination of opportunity where we can see value down the line then that's something that we would take a look at but it has to be able to compete in our portfolio.
We've got a very strong portfolio and so the hurdle is already very high for any sort of additions to it.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then can you just give us an update on the Downstream assets that were currently being marketed if there's any sort of progress there or there's any additions to the list that you provided about a month ago as far as what you're looking at to dispose of? Yes no additions to the list.
The real changes that have happened we called out with Spain and the Envirofuels in Canada and then also the Perth Amboy terminal but nothing additional other than what Mark presented at the Security Analyst Meeting.
Okay thank you.
I think that's kind of run through the queue here.
So I'd like to close off here.
Let me just say that I appreciate everybody's participation on the call and in particular your interest in Chevron.
I want to thank all of the analysts for putting your questions forward because it helps everybody's understanding of the company.
Thank you very much everyone.
Goodbye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes Chevron's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Kevin and I'll be your conference operator today.
Welcome to the Chevron Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Good morning and thank you Kevin.
Welcome to Chevron's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
On the call with me today are George Kirkland Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Upstream and Gas; and Jeanette Ourada General Manager Investor Relations.
We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement on Slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
Financially it was a strong quarter.
The company's second-quarter earnings were $7.2 billion or $3.66 per diluted share.
Comparing the second quarter 2012 to the same quarter a year earlier our earnings declined 7%.
Upstream was down on lower crude prices and volumes while Downstream benefited from improved margins and gains on asset sales.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was about 20%.
Our debt ratio at the end of June was 7.3%.
In the second quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares.
In the third quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.
Relative to our peers as of June 30 we hold the #1 ranking in total shareholder return for the 3-year 5-year and 10-year periods and actually for every period in between.
We believe this clearly demonstrates the long-term value we are creating for our shareholders.
Turning to Slide 4 cash generated from operations was almost $10 billion during the second quarter.
At quarter end our cash balances totaled over $21 billion.
This puts us in a net cash position of $11 billion.
Jeanette will now take us through the quarterly comparison.
Jeanette? Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 5.
I'll compare results of the second quarter 2012 with the first quarter 2012.
As a reminder our earnings release compares second quarter 2012 with the same quarter a year ago.
Second-quarter earnings were $7.2 billion over $700 million higher than the first-quarter results.
Upstream earnings were down $551 million on lower crude oil realizations partly offset by favorable foreign exchange effects.
Downstream results improved $1.1 billion between quarters driven by better margins and favorable inventory effects.
The variance in the Other bar reflects lower corporate charges and a favorable swing in corporate tax items.
On Slide 6 our U.S.
upstream earnings for the second quarter were $211 million lower than the first quarter's results.
Combined liquids and natural gas realizations reduced earnings by $145 million.
Chevron's average U.S.
crude oil realizations decreased 4% between consecutive quarters substantially less than the roughly 9% drop in average WTI spot and posted Midway Sunset prices.
Gulf of Mexico realizations actually increased between quarters due to the monthly lag on pricing of HLS Mars and LLS.
Natural gas realizations also dropped decreasing 13% between quarters.
Higher production volumes primarily in the Gulf of Mexico and California increased earnings by $40 million between periods.
The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including incremental abandonment costs due to 2005 and 2008 hurricanes and higher exploration expense.
Turning to Slide 7.
International upstream earnings were $340 million lower than the first quarter.
Lower realizations reduced earnings by $525 million.
Liquids realizations decreased 10% in line with the decrease in average Brent spot prices.
Partially offsetting were higher natural gas realizations which increased earnings by $25 million.
Lower liftings mainly in Brazil and Australia decreased earnings by $130 million.
Higher operating expenses reduced earnings by $40 million reflecting higher costs across multiple categories.
Moving to the next bar.
A favorable swing in foreign currency effects increased earnings by about $425 million.
The second quarter had a gain of $219 million compared to a loss of $208 million in the first quarter.
The total year-to-date impact is a favorable $11 million.
The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including higher exploration expense.
Slide 8 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production decreased 7 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Lower prices increased volumes as the production sharing and variable-royalty contracts during the second quarter increasing production about 7 000 barrels per day.
Average Brent spot prices decreased about $10 per barrel between quarters which resulted in about a 700 barrel per day volume increase for each dollar decrease in Brent.
Moving to the next bar our Frade field in Brazil remained shut in for the quarter reducing production by 25 000 barrels per day.
Recall in mid-March the Frade field shut down as a precautionary measure.
It remained shut down throughout the second quarter.
Base business production decreased 30 000 barrels per day largely driven by lower Tengiz volumes due to a planned KTL turnaround a shortfall in rail cars resulting from railroad repairs at the Russian border and lower processing efficiency.
Incremental production for major capital projects benefited second-quarter production by 41 000 barrels per day primarily driven by ramp-ups at Usan in Nigeria and Caesar/Tonga in the Gulf of Mexico.
Next let's move to downstream.
Turning to slide 9 U.S.
downstream earnings increased $343 million in the second quarter.
Improved margins increased earnings by $275 million driven by significantly better marketing margins in the West Coast and higher refining margins on both the Gulf and West Coasts.
Industry refinery maintenance in both regions and continued strong product export demand on the Gulf Coast combined with a rapid drop in crude prices generated higher margins.
Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $35 million resulting from higher costs across multiple categories.
Timing effects represented a $130 million positive earnings variance between quarters primarily driven by favorable mark-to-market effects on derivative tied to underlying physical positions.
The Other bar consists of several unrelated items.
On Slide 10 international downstream earnings were $734 million higher this quarter.
Refining and marketing margins rose increasing earnings by $305 million.
This resulted from the absence of first-quarter planned turnaround activities in South Korea and from declining crude price impacts across the system.
Inventory effects increased earnings by $325 million primarily due to falling prices in the second quarter following rising first-quarter prices.
Recall in the first quarter I called out a $225 million negative earnings variance due to unfavorable inventory impacts.
The net impact for the year is a $29 million positive impact to earnings.
Gains from asset sales were slightly lower decreasing earnings by $15 million.
Approximately $200 million of gains on assets in the second quarter nearly matched first quarter's gains on asset sales in Spain and Canada.
The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated item including higher volumes improved trading results and lower turnaround costs.
Slide 11 covers all Other.
Second-quarter net charges were $291 million compared to a net $504 million charge in the first quarter a decrease of $213 million between periods.
A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $77 million benefit to earnings.
Corporate charges were $136 million lower in the second quarter.
Year-to-date corporate charges were $795 million.
We believe our quarterly guidance range of $300 million to $400 million for net charges in the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.
George is now going to provide an update on our upstream operations.
George? Thank you Jeanette.
It's good to be back to discuss upstream performance and to provide an update on our operations.
I'll begin by looking at our second quarter competitive position on earnings margins.
So far this year upstream margins were approximately $26 per barrel.
Although not all our peers have announced second quarter results we expect to continue to lead our competitors in this key metric.
Based on the peers that have reported through the first half we are almost $7 per barrel ahead of our nearest competitor.
We have now held this top position for 12 consecutive quarters reinforcing the quality of our investment decisions the strength of our portfolio and the consistency of our performance.
Next let's look at returns.
Our investments continue to deliver superior financial performance.
For the second quarter our return on capital employed was 25%.
This too is expected to rank at the top of our peer group.
Now I'll turn to 2012 production.
Please turn to Slide 14.
Our first half production averaged 2.63 million barrels a day at an average year-to-date Brent price of $114 per barrel.
Based on the results to date we are lagging the full year production guidance we gave you in January of 2.68 million barrels per day.
There are 4 key drivers that will impact our full year production results.
First the Frade field has been shut in since mid-March.
We are conducting an extensive technical evaluation of the area.
Once all the technical evaluations are complete partner support is in place and we obtain regulatory approvals production is expected to restart and ramp up over time.
Timing of the restart remains somewhat uncertain.
Second we have our first major turnaround at Tengiz SGI/SGP and this is scheduled to start early in August and last for 6 weeks.
The turnaround involves more than 6 000 workers.
It includes normal inspections and repairs of equipment to maintain mechanical reliability and integrity.
We will also take the opportunity to make improvements that are expected to slightly increase production capacity over the next few years.
Next we had commissioning delays at Angola LNG.
We originally planned to start up in the second quarter.
Commissioning activities are underway and we've completed LNG berthing trials and LNG tankers are available for third-quarter cargoes.
We are currently expecting the first cargo in September.
Also influencing our production this year and I mean in a positive way are several MCPs that started up early relative to our plan.
We have been pleased with their performance.
Currently we're performing at 98% of our initial guidance.
And based on the items we just discussed enough uncertainties remain so that I expect we will end the year slightly under our target.
More importantly our long-term guidance remains intact.
Looking to 2017 we continue to expect production to grow to 3.3 million barrels per day at a Brent price of $79 per barrel.
Now let's turn to Slide 15.
We have an active year of exploration and we plan to invest nearly $3 billion.
The Gulf of Mexico is a key focus area for us where we continue to build our portfolio of prospects.
During the recently sale we were apparent high bidder on 15 deepwater blocks and 15 shelf blocks.
We are currently drilling the Coronado well in the deepwater and the Lineham Creek well and ultra-deep Wilcox gas play on the Gulf of Mexico shelf.
In another key focus area Australia we recently announced the Pontus-1 Carnavon Basin discovery the fourth successful discovery out of the last 15 wells.
We have several more exploratory wells to be drilled in Australia this year.
We are also actively pursuing new test areas.
One is South America West Africa cretaceous play.
We have an active drilling program in Liberia where we are on our second exploration well.
And we recently acquired additional acreage in Suriname.
We made a new entry in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
This acreage is in the appraisal and exploration phases which is consistent with our strategy of seeking early opportunities.
We are also progressing our unconventional portfolio.
We have drilling activities in the U.S.
both in the Permian Basin and the Marcellus the Canadian Duvernay Poland Argentina and China.
In the Ukraine we were awarded a tender that gives us the right to negotiate a production-sharing contract for 1.6 million acres.
This acreage is on trend with our Poland and Romania acreage.
Next we'll talk about our progress on major capital projects.
Please turn to Slide 16.
We continue to see good performance from our first quarter start-ups Usan Tahiti 2 and Caesar/Tonga.
In the second quarter we achieved start-up of Agbami 2.
We have brought online 1 new producer and 1 water injection well.
Our plan includes 10 wells in total 6 of which are producers.
We reached a Final Investment Decision to expand our Bibiyana natural gas field in Bangladesh where we have a 98% interest.
This new project will include expansion of the gas plant to process increased gas volumes from the Bibiyana field additional development wells and an enhanced condensate recovery unit.
The project is expected to boost Chevron's total natural gas production capacity in Bangladesh by more than 300 million cubic feet per day to 1.4 billion cubic feet per day.
Our start-up is expected in 2014.
We entered front engineering and design for the Rosebank Project in the U.K.
This is our first operated development in the west of Shetlands basin.
This field holds significant potential with estimated total potential recoverable oil equivalent resources of 240 million barrels.
Turning to Slide 17 I'd like to give you an update on our Australia LNG projects.
Let's start with Wheatstone.
We made a Final Investment Decision on Wheatstone last September.
We have achieved our key milestones for the year.
We have completed the pioneer camp with 100 beds and continue work on phase one of the fly camp which will add an additional 500 beds.
We currently have about 300 workers on site.
Just this month we cut first deal on the platform top sides in the DSME fabrication yard in South Korea.
We now have long-term contracts in place for over 80% of our equity LNG volumes.
The remaining activities for 2012 focus on detailed design and preparing for plant site works to commence in the fourth quarter of this year.
To date approximately $15 billion in contracts have been awarded including more than $7 billion in local Australian contracts.
The contracts are a mix of lump sum reimbursable time and material and unit rate.
During the quarter we signed a non-binding Heads of Agreement with Tohoku for LNG offtake.
We also executed an equity Sales and Purchase Agreement with TEPCO bringing Chevron's interest in the offshore platform and facilities downstream of the platform to 64% and our interest in the upstream permits to 80%.
We do not intend to farm down any further.
With this sale Chevron's net capital investment is expected to be about $20 billion.
We're in the process of obtaining final government approvals of this sale.
Now let's turn to Gorgon.
Please turn to Slide 18.
Gorgon achieved FID in September 2009 and is now over 45% complete.
We're making good progress on our 2012 milestones.
In June the first 4 pipe rack modules arrived on Barrow Island.
In July construction began on the domestic pipeline.
Next month the first plant equipment module is expected to arrive.
And later in the year we expect to start installation of the Train 1 compressors.
I'd like to update you also on a few areas -- additional areas of progress.
Through design optimizations we have upgraded the nameplate capacity of the individual trains to 5.2 million tons per annum for a total of 15.6 million tons.
This is a 4% increase in capacity.
Fabrication and delivery of modules are on track.
We have completed 2 of the 3 main berths at the material offloading facility allowing efficient simultaneous offloading of modules and other construction materials.
Two LNG tanks are under construction and we've completed all 14 ring sections of the first tank.
The roof is now structurally complete and is ready to be floated into its final position.
This strong progress on the tanks has taken them off the critical path which is unusual for an LNG project.
We have drilled 8 of the 18 development wells 7 in Gorgon and 1 in Jansz and we're pleased with the sub-surface results we're seeing.
Progress on the upstream facilities and subsea pipelines are on plan.
We posted several photos of our progress at Gorgon on the web page chevron.com.
You will see links on the home page and Investor page called Gorgon progress photos.
I encourage you to check in occasionally as we will periodically update Gorgon project pictures.
Moving to Slide 19.
We've received many questions about Gorgon cost.
We want to be responsive as we can and provide the insights we can with the information we have to date.
As you are aware the project was sanctioned in 2009 at USD 37 billion and at the current exchange rate at the time of USD 0.86 to the Australian dollar.
The stacked bars chart shows the budgeted cost at FID and how they were broken down 30% upstream and 70% downstream.
We have now awarded more than $28 billion in contracts with more than half to local contractors.
The contracts include a mix of lump sum unit rate and reimbursable time and material.
The contract mix will change over time as contracts are completed and/or converted.
Procurement and fabrication along with the upstream component are mostly non-Australian-dollar-based.
These are the top 2 seconds on the stacked bar.
The other component shown on the bar chart are primarily Australian-dollar-based.
Overall about half of the total costs are in Australian dollars.
Procurement and fabrication and the upstream components are on plan in terms of both cost and schedule.
Regarding logistics the 5% component we have 3 primary supply bases.
Activities at the Dampier and Perth supply bases are meeting or exceeding plan.
However the Australian Marine Complex at Henderson which handles transshipment of larger cargo has not been as productive.
To mitigate we are streamlining our logistics processes and have added additional resources.
We have a strong focus on insuring critical materials arrive in sequence and on time to support construction activities.
Looking at the construction and labor segment we have experienced some delays due to weather.
We are still in the early stages of our on-island activity and we'll need several months on Barrow Island to assess labor productivity.
Remember that by design the project is modularized to limit on-island activities.
We've also seen Australian labor costs trending higher.
This could impact both construction and management services.
Because there are a number of variables in play we currently have a detailed cost review underway.
We're evaluating our performance to date and incorporating new information to update our expectations for the remainder of the project.
Over the next few months our assessments will help us gauge movements in costs which we expect to provide towards the end of the year.
I would like to emphasize that our view of the Gorgon project has only been enhanced since FID.
I remain very confident in the economics and the value created by this project.
While we are seeing cost pressures in large part associated with a 20% strengthening of the Australian dollar it's important to note that oil prices which determine the project's revenue stream are about 60% higher than at the time of project sanction.
Further the development well results to date are encouraging which has greatly reduced the reservoir uncertainty.
We've increased the capacity of the foundation project by 4% and we continue having success with our exploration program providing us with confidence that we will have additional gas volumes to support further expansions at Gorgon.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Pat.
Okay.
Thank you George.
I'm turning now to Slide 20.
George has provided an update of recent progress on upstream and exploration activity so I won't comment further on the left-hand side of the chart.
In the downstream CPChem initiated front-end engineering and design on our Gulf Coast petrochemical project.
Initial contracts for design of the derivative unit and the ethane cracker have been awarded.
We continued our downstream portfolio rationalization efforts completing the sale of our fuels marketing and aviation business in the Caribbean along with the power operations of our GS Caltex affiliate in South Korea.
And earlier this week our 50% affiliate Caltex Australia Limited announced plans to restructure its supply chain which will include the conversion of the Kurnell refinery in Sydney to an import terminal.
Caltex will continue to operate the Lytton refinery in Brisbane.
In support of this restructuring plan we have entered into a long-term agreement with Caltex to supply transportation fuels at market-based prices.
Given the timing of this announcement the financial impact of this decision will be recorded in the third quarter.
We don't expect the impact to be material to our results.
Turning to Slide 21.
I'd like to close with a few important points.
First 2012 is all about execution for us.
We know that and we're executing well.
We continue to progress our major capital projects both upstream and downstream.
Second our Australian projects remain squarely on track.
George gave you more insight on the progress we're making at Gorgon and Wheatstone.
I encourage you to view the Gorgon photos on our website.
We did not talk specifically this morning about our 2 major deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico that are under construction Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot but both of these projects remain on schedule and on budget.
And it is these 4 projects that form the cornerstone of our production growth mid-decade and beyond.
Third we delivered a strong financial performance in the second quarter.
Earnings and cash generation for the quarter were amongst our strongest ever.
And if you look at the first 6 months of 2012 as a whole where foreign exchange and downstream timing effects each largely net out you will note the quality of our earnings.
Both upstream and downstream segments are delivering leading earnings per barrel and ROCE compared to the peers who have reported so far this earnings season.
At the 6-month mark Chevron's upstream is #1 on both of these measures and Chevron's downstream is #1 on both of these measures.
An investment in Chevron offers many advantages: a very compelling growth story beginning mid-decade; hugely competitive cash and earnings margin; margins we believe will be supported in the future by the quality of investments we're making today; and the sustained growth pattern on dividends which are yielding 3.3%.
We believe we are well positioned for strong cash generation in the years to come and with that cash generation our capacity to increase dividends and maintain peer-leading total shareholder returns is enhanced.
Now that concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll welcome your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will ensure everyone gets a chance to ask a question even if we need to run over a few minutes.
Kevin please open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I have somewhat of a strategic question and specifically one with regard to portfolio management where you guys have had extensive activity during the past decade in the refining and marketing business and your returns have clearly increased.
But at E&amp;P while I realize that your returns are already about the highest in peer group as Pat and George pointed out it seems like that might be an area of opportunity for the company over the next couple of years.
So I just want to see if we could get an update on your thinking or strategy in this area? And whether or not you even consider the opportunity to be meaningful for Chevron given your return level? Doug are you asking us about expectations for E&amp;P asset restructuring and portfolio divestment? Research Division</strong> Along those lines.
I mean there's always areas of underperformance or declining strategic importance.
And it seems like you've rationalized a lot more in the downstream than the upstream and is this an opportunity for you over the next couple of years until the big wave of growth is present? Doug let me take that.
First off I would take you to our earnings per barrel and where they stand relative to everyone else and what that means for our portfolio.
The average of our portfolio has got a significant shift if you will to the right versus what's out there.
We always are upgrading our portfolio on a continued basis looking at the tail end of the portfolio looking at those pieces that are not performing that well.
An example of course is Alaska.
We sold over 20 000 barrels a day in Alaska that went off our books in December of last year.
So that was an opportunity that we took.
What we also looked at -- is there anything when we do that that we can do with that money that gives us better assets? And I would tell you one other thing we look very carefully at we try to make sure that anything we sell doesn't have future opportunities related to different stratigraphic levels on that acreage.
And very importantly that we -- it doesn't have a technology opportunity to unlock more barrels.
We find if you sell out of a place then you lose that opportunity.
It's really tough coming back and buying the same acreage back because you exited too soon.
So I would tell you we're cautious but we do cut off that poor part of our portfolio and we usually get good prices for it.
Research Division</strong> Yes you're clearly in a high-quality position.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Thanks very much for all the details on Gorgon.
We're going to be watching that website closely.
Just -- you spoke about talking about releasing costs at the end of the year and we can do some maths given the details you've given.
But you've also spoken about weather impacts and logistics learnings.
Maybe if you could sort of assess for us the risk of start-up delay at Gorgon as you see it today? There's Ed always risk with every project.
I mean every big project like this is a constant mitigation of things in the project materials equipment contracts that could impact the critical path.
And I think we do really a good job of trying to mitigate those issues and keeping any problem off of the critical path.
We still believe we're going to make the 2014 start-up.
We look at it very carefully every month all the way through the chain.
I mean me and John look -- we spend a good amount of time every month on these projects with our team.
So we got great focus on it.
We got good people -- very good people in Australia on our project teams focused on delivering and they're very good at dealing with the mitigations to try to move us and hold us to that schedule.
At this point we still think we're on the 2014 -- the late 2014 schedule.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-on in terms of Wheatstone.
So say you get to the end of 2012 and you can sort of make an update on costs for Gorgon would we presume given the amount of effort that you have to put in that you might be able to be able to narrow down costs and start up timing for Wheatstone end of 2013? And then you'll have substantially derisked the CapEx and start-up for investors? First let me -- where we are on Wheatstone is much earlier in cycle.
Remember Wheatstone's 2 years behind.
So in 2013 we are not going to be as far along.
We will be telling you every time -- every quarter and every update where we stand on percent complete and how we're doing.
We're going to provide similar kind of informational Wheatstone progress and milestones as we are on the case for Gorgon.
We will be more knowledgeable at that point in time but we won't have the same knowledge level since Gorgon is once again 2 years out in front.
I will tell you one other item on -- specifically on Wheatstone.
Wheatstone when we authorized that project for the Final Investment Decisions we had used a different exchange rate.
We used parity between the U.S.
dollar and the Australian dollar at authorization.
So we don't see at this point in time the Australian dollar or the foreign exchange impact hitting us on Wheatstone.
Well once again we have to make the same commitment on Wheatstone we have on Gorgon.
We are going to give you very detailed updates at every opportunity.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> George 2 questions if I may.
The first one is you've kept again your $79 oil price assumption when you talk you about your production target on 2017.
I'm just curious that if oil prices had to be substantially higher let's say $100 or something like that I mean you could pick a number.
I realize that the strategy that you laid out that it doesn't necessarily impact the PSC production type of an issue.
But what I'm particularly curious about is what it means in terms of production cliffs as you work through costs recovery because clearly oil prices already have been substantially higher.
I guess my question is because you've accelerated or realized a lot of revenue much earlier than you would have done at $79 can you give us a road map as to whether there are any major production cliffs on your major PSCs? And I've got a quick follow-up please.
I think we've been consistently saying we one would be telling you if we saw cliffs.
We have not seen any of those in the near term.
We don't see any of those.
We have in our estimate that we give once every quarter of price impacts we tell you what it is and any movements in our PSCs are included in that.
Most of the cliffs that I think we have seen in the past we are past and we will give warnings if we see future ones.
I hope that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Well if I may George what I'm really getting at is that if you're assuming $79 for the next 6 years and it turns out to be $100 it's the future cliffs I'm really talking about with that $20 difference is there any meaningful changes vis-a-vis $100 versus let's say your $79 assumption? No we don't see any meaningful ones at this point in time.
And if we do in the future see any we will give you warning or information on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second one is really hopefully fairly quick.
Unit margins obviously continue to be very strong.
We monitor I guess we kind of call it a capture rate we monitor your weighted revenues and your unit earnings.
And it looked like that actually dropped a fair bit this quarter relative to the recent trend.
Is there anything unusual that you can point to? Have you seen the same thing or any commentary you could offer there? And I'll leave it at that.
Our correlations it still looks pretty good and consistent with the past history for us.
There are always going to be some ups and downs when you look at quarters on -- one quarter may have a well write-off or it may have G&amp;G effects in it that may move it around a little bit.
But the early stuff that I've looked at I don't see anything.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> George thank you as well for the detailed budget breakdown for Gorgon.
My question related to that is can you talk about what type of contingency was reflected in that original budget? Did you have a 15% to 20% contingency for potential cost overruns? Obviously the FX movement is pretty straightforward.
But I'm wondering if there is some wiggle room either within contingency or some of the other buckets? Yes we did have contingency but we do not ever disclose what that contingency is or was.
We'll be able to give you a lot more information about where we think this project is going I think towards the end of the year after we finish our reviews of cost and schedule.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And maybe a related follow-up is if you've awarded $28 billion of contracts presumably that's primarily on the facilities and the -- what you call here procurement and fabrication can we think about that portion therefore basically as being derisked? And then we are kind of just down to the labor productivity and the FX and weather you've mentioned here? Can we think about the facilities and procurement as being derisked now? Yes in my statement I tried to cover particularly a portion of that and particularly looked at even full upstream portion and the equipment and the fabrication area.
We have good confidence in that.
We think those -- we know a lot about those costs.
We feel extremely good about our upstream costs on the well side the drilling side.
And matter of fact all the upstream costs look to be very much in line with our expectations.
What we don't know is we don't know labor productivity.
We're getting some indications now because we've got the 2 tanks going up quite nicely.
But then we've got foundation work and a lot of underground.
So we've got an awful lot of work before we even get to mechanical piping and instrumentation and electrical tie in.
So that piece we just don't know and we'll have a better feel for it as we get to the end of the year.
But we just don't have enough run time to know that.
And a lot of our costs a lot of our costs are -- as we've mentioned 50% of our costs are in Australian dollars and a significant portion of that once again is related to on-island work.
Now remember we tried to minimize that as much as we could by bringing in modules.
That's what we got big pipe rack modules coming in and big process modules coming in with a lot of work to minimize that on-island work.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
George I wanted to ask a couple of questions about activity in the U.S.
maybe start with deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
You did mention that Coronado is drilling and that Jack/St.
Malo are essentially on schedule.
Do you feel like you're essentially now fully back to work there? And can you maybe talk about the production levels in the Gulf of Mexico? And whether you may be seeing an inflection point and would hope to grow from the levels that you're at right now? Okay.
Jason.
We have 5 rigs -- deepwater rigs running in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
This is the most rigs we've ever run in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
This is more than before the Macondo incident.
Four of our 5 rigs at this point in time are supporting major capital projects.
The Discoverer Clear Leader is on the Jack -- on a Jack-producing well.
The Discoverer Deep Seas is on the Tahiti -- on a Tahiti development well the Tahiti 2 development well.
The Deep Seas is like I just mentioned let me go back in and say we've got Clear Leader on Jack.
We've got Deep Seas on Tahiti.
We got the Inspiration which is another Discoverer -- is another Transocean rig is completing the St.
Malo production well.
Then we have a rig on the Discoverer India.
That's on the Big Foot.
So 4 development projects 4 of our rigs.
We have 1 rig the Pacific Santa Ana drilling on the Coronado exploration well.
And this is the second time we've been at Coronado.
We had some difficulty with the first well there.
So we're at Coronado on exploration.
Jason actually we have more activity we'd like to do on the exploration side.
We're limiting ourselves to 5 rigs.
It does take an awful lot of technical people to really push all these permits through the system.
So we're -- I think we're close to what we can do on that.
With regards to production down the road we're going to see production growth because we've got so many of these large projects coming on.
Remember 2014 is our target start-up for Jack/St.
Malo and also for Big Foot.
And we are -- the work we're doing right now at Tahiti 2 is to get access to more resources and reserves there to hold production and limit decline rates there.
So my expectation is growth.
Just a reminder Big Foot is a 60 000 to 70 000 barrel a day type opportunity where we hold 60%.
Jack/St.
Malo is 120 000 to 150 000 kind of barrel facility and we hold 50% of Jack and 51% of St.
Malo.
So all of these projects are very significant.
Like Pat said these are very significant projects and they're 2014.
And once again they look to be on schedule and on cost.
Appreciate all that George.
I realize it was a multipart but maybe if I could just sneak in one more.
You mentioned the Lineham Creek well.
Can you to talk about the potential you see in the lower Wilcox ultra-deep from a resource standpoint and how you're dealing with the technical challenges there? I think at this point in time it's a belief for us like you normally have in exploration we have existing leases and have acquired in recent lease sales additional leases where we believe that trend on the shelf could be productive.
I'm going to hold on how big it could be until we have some results.
We are encouraged by what we've seen in the industry some of the industry wells in that -- for that trend.
But once again we've got to drill the wells to see.
And we'll speak more of it -- I'd rather speak more of it after I have some results.
Our next question comes from Robert Kessler with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions on the numbers for Gorgon.
How much have you spent to date on the project? We don't share that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I ask for some color then around -- you mentioned the tanks and progress on the tanks taking the team off path I think you said? Did you mean they were getting faster or slower or what was unusual about that in your sense? Most LNG projects the tank readiness for production is one of the critical path items and controls schedule.
We've seen that on several projects before that we've been involved with and the tank work to date has gone well.
It's taken all the tank construction off the critical path schedule for the project.
So it's a big positive to -- it's -- projects are always about eliminating problems with the critical path item.
And we're very pleased where we are on the tanks.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
Can I ask on the 45% complete if you don't think of that in terms of costs or is that a cost completion or is that a time completion? How do you think about that particular percentage disclosure? It's an activity level completion which we value certain activities.
So I would put it more in the sense of really a schedule but it really reflects the amount of effort and work that has to be done activity by activity and it's weighted that way.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last component from these -- all right.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One real short.
George have you guys hedged your FX exposure in Gorgon? And also Wheatstone at the time of [indiscernible] how much if you can share? And the second question...
If it's okay I'll just answer that.
The answer is no we did not hedge okay? Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any plan to change it in the future or that this will be continue to be the company policy? I'm going to let Pat answer that one.
Right.
No I mean we really look at this as -- particularly when you're dealing with a resource country like Australia when the movement in the Australian dollar is really driven by what's happening in the resource sector we look at the tide and the correlation between that and what happens to oil prices typically and have found a very strong correlation.
So we have made the decision to not hedge.
We are -- we really have a hedge in the overall portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
The second question George from an organizational -- I mean you guys are working on a lot of different projects and no doubt have a full plate.
So from an organizational capability and limit standpoint in terms of your human resources your supply chain availability can you really -- can you increase your current pace or that this is as fast as you can run? And if you don't really have any more slack and I know that periodically people are asking that whether you're going to acquire something that's in mix sense that when you don't have excess or high-dosed spare organizational capability therefore you do acquire anything outside what you already have? Well that's a -- Paul its a multipart.
Let me see if I can take a quick stab at that.
First when you look at the major capital projects we are having around the world and the organization -- the people it requires to do one of those we could not add another large project in the execution stage at this point.
Now we can -- we're always preparing ourselves for the next set of projects.
So we have to stage out people in earlier phases to move the next set of opportunities through the pipeline.
So we try to do that.
But we could not just plunk down another big project in the execution stage.
Now we have to plan for people coming off of these big projects and that's happening too.
So we try to manage that I think in a very holistic sense.
Otherwise on our organization could we do more smaller projects or a little more drilling? Yes we have some capability to do that.
It's not a huge impact on our capital budgets.
It would be relatively small monies compared to what we're presently doing.
We don't want to get over-extended on that either.
So we try to make good choices on that part.
But very importantly we try to time once again next set of projects get the work the preparatory work for them ready by the time some of these other projects are rolling off.
And I guess maybe one final point the reason for all that is we want to have good execution.
And of course on the front end we want to make very good decisions on doing the right projects.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> George can I ask a couple of questions about Tengiz? I noticed the future growth FEED hasn't started that.
Are there still issues there with the government? And do you still believe that there's going to be volumes from that in your 2017 numbers? Good question Iain.
Let me give you a little bit of background where we are on -- at TCO.
TCO has received partial funding for partners for future growth FEED.
That allows us to move the FEED forward and we have commenced engineering on that -- on the FEED engineering for future growth.
Down the road we've of course got to finish that.
And then another big hurdle on -- for future growth is also funding for partners in particular funding for our Kazakh partner KMG.
So that is yet to come.
When I look at the timing for the expansion of TCO it is in the 2017 period.
That's where it's planned.
It's not a full year's worth of production but we are very focused on trying to move that project to meet that schedule.
So I'm convinced we're either going to have it in '17 or it's going to be in '18.
And I've got it in my plan that way and we look at it every quarter to try to make sure that we have it in the schedule at the right time.
And I'm also always looking on my 2017 3.3 million about other opportunities that I have in queue that I could offset any barrels that would slip out of 2017.
So got a great -- we have a great focus on that.
I'll bring you back -- we're going to move that project at the right speed to execute it well to get everything in place to have an excellent project.
And for a reminder for everyone that's on the phone this project is another big project.
It's a 250 000 to 300 000 barrel a day expansion.
This project is made possible by the CPC expansion Caspian pipeline expansion which is moving forward well.
We see the first part of additional barrel capacity coming on the CPC actually in 2013 which is good news for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That was great.
And second bit is the turnaround you're taking over the next several weeks how many barrels is that going to impact? Is it the whole plant or just a portion of it? It's the SGI/SGPs which is round numbers is approaching 300 000 barrels a day.
So it's about half of our production at Tengiz.
This is the first real big full turnaround for the plant and the compression equipment in total.
Like I mentioned 6 000 workers a lot of people there.
We are also trying to do a little bit of additional work that we think will be improving future capacity but the real focus at this point is changing out catalysts and increasing reliability and efficiency of the plant.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And that's all built into your full-year production forecast? That is correct.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin with the Socit Gnrale.
George you mentioned that the development wells at Gorgon were going -- you were pleased with them.
Does this mean that we could see some resource uplift or greater recoverable reserve potential for Gorgon? That's possible.
Let me make sure I can characterize that.
What we've seen to date is -- we look at every well as we're moving forward.
And we have a distribution of outcomes between a if you will a probabilistic distribution and we're seeing outcomes that are greater than our mid-value.
These are all static results.
These are based on logs.
Once we really wouldn't move very much off of that until we got performance so we got the dynamic results when we actually start up.
Now we will take some looks at this net pay counts and looking at actually reservoir quality.
But at this point we feel very good that we feel we are -- we did a good job estimating and it's come in just a little better than our midpoint.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First one is for Pat.
Your referenced of course the very large cash balance.
What would it take for you to consider upsizing the quarterly share buyback? Well Pavel I think I would just point you to the fact that we had from a Brent standpoint a $28 decline in realizations over the course of the second quarter and just point to the volatility there and say -- as I've said in the past that we keep the cash balance where it is right now while we're in the midst of heavy construction period particularly on these LNG projects.
And that is -- our priority is to be able to fund those projects through the thick and thin of commodity cycles and to be able to weather any sort of downside excursion which we have just seen.
So fundamentally I think it would take a hugely different and more robust commodity price environment and a sustained environment for us to think at this point in time of moving it beyond the 1.25 billion per quarter.
We are returning a lot of cash.
Yes we are.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quick one for George as well.
Lots of conflicting comments from your peer companies in relation to shale gas in Europe.
What are your latest thoughts on the commercialization prospects and maybe any sense of timing on when we might see some volumes out of there? I think we've been pretty consistent on what we thought on timing for shale gas coming out or gas for shale coming out of Central Europe or elsewhere on the European continent.
We've always looked at this as a exploration play.
So it's very early days.
You have to drill a lot of exploratory wells.
You got to understand the resource.
You got to understand the performance.
We are once again in a very early start of that.
My expectations on a success basis that you're really talking next decade before you get significant volumes.
Europe is in a much different situation and I think actually almost all the rest of the world on the shale opportunities than the United States.
The knowledge level in the U.S.
about a shale I mean we've -- is high compared to any place else in the world because there is so many wells being drilled in the United States in every region.
So your knowledge level going in is high.
You're able to more quickly assess the opportunity here and then very importantly remember the infrastructure.
The North American infrastructure to move the gas is in place.
Most cases you had short tie-ins.
You got all these big interstate pipelines.
It's a much different situation.
And you don't have that in Europe.
So there's a lot -- lot of things must happen from the point of discovery assessment and then moving gas to market.
And my expectation hasn't changed.
It's really predominantly a next decade and maybe early in the next decade.
But it's the next decade.
Yes our last question comes from Allen Good with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> If I could just try a couple on Iraq.
As far as the acreage add there what is your perspective on the long-term potential there? What's your long-term outlook that you may see that Reliance didn't particularly see there that makes the entry there attractive? And then secondly were there -- are there any sort of near-term plans for exploration or any other sort of development or is there a situation we just got to sort of wait out the political situation there until you get some more clarity? Well let me start off.
We have been engaged in Iraq and trying to find opportunities at Iraq for quite a period.
We want to participate in their expansion.
We believe what we have in front of us fits with what we'd like to do.
It's early exploration.
Our preference always is to explore find appraise and develop an opportunity.
This fits with that.
We're there to try to do once again that exploratory work to prove it.
We've got wells to drill.
We will be drilling a couple of wells in the near term.
That was part of the commitment that was made for those blocks.
We will be meeting that commitment.
So we're encouraged from what we see of the geology.
But once again it's exploration.
I don't know what's going to happen until we drill the wells.
We feel good about the ability to actually get in there and do the work.
We do see the terms -- the economic terms there would be attractive.
It would fit in the portfolio with geologic success.
So we feel good about it as an exploration play.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is this -- do you feel like it's enough of a position for now or are you continuing to look and potentially add acreage in the future? Once again we always are looking for an opportunity to expand particularly where we have a belief that we have a good technical prospect.
So I'd just leave it at that broad point.
Okay.
I think that wraps things up for this morning.
In closing let me say that we appreciate everyone's participation in the call today and your interest in Chevron.
I especially want to thank each of the analysts on behalf of the participants for their questions during the session.
Kevin I'll turn it back to you.
Thank you everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Thank you Sean.
Welcome to Chevron's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
On the call with me today is Mike Wirth Executive Vice President Downstream &amp; Chemicals; and Jeff Gustavson General Manager Investor Relations.
We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
Financially it was another solid quarter.
The company's third quarter earnings were $5.3 billion or $2.69 per diluted share.
Current quarter earnings are down about 30% compared to both second quarter 2012 and to third quarter 2011.
It is important to note that both comparative periods second quarter this year and third quarter last year are among the strongest quarters we've ever had.
It is also important to note as you will see in the remainder of the presentation that a number of items negatively affect our third quarter comparisons including swings in foreign exchange and timing effects in the downstream as well as timing of asset sale gains and other transactions.
Year-to-date earnings are down about 13% versus 2011 which was a record earnings year.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 17.4% and our debt ratio at the end of September was 8.5%.
In the third quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares.
In the fourth quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.
Turning to Slide 4.
Cash generated from operations was almost $8 billion during the quarter bringing our year-to-date operating cash flow to just over $26 billion which is net of about $2 billion build in inventory.
At quarter end our cash balances were approximately $21 billion and our net cash position was approximately $9 billion.
We've had the right strategies and executed well against them.
This has led to excellent financial performance strong cash generation and total shareholder returns that lead the peer group.
Jeff will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 5.
I'll compare results of the third quarter 2012 with the second quarter 2012.
As a reminder our earnings release compares third quarter 2012 with the same quarter a year ago.
Third quarter earnings were $5.3 billion a decrease of approximately $2 billion from second quarter results.
Overall foreign exchange movements accounted for about 25% of this decline.
We moved from a net positive foreign exchange position in second quarter of almost $200 million to a net negative position of nearly $300 million in the third quarter.
Upstream earnings were down $481 million on unfavorable foreign exchange effects and lower production partly offset by a gain on an asset sale.
Downstream results decreased by approximately $1.2 billion between quarters driven primarily by unfavorable inventory valuation effects lower volumes and lower realized margins.
The variance in the Other bar reflects higher corporate charges and an unfavorable swing in corporate tax items.
On Slide 6.
Our U.S.
upstream earnings for the third quarter were $196 million lower than second quarter's results.
Lower realizations reduced earnings by $140 million.
Although key benchmark crude spot prices were roughly flat between quarters Chevron's average U.S.
crude oil realizations decreased 6% due to the monthly lag on pricing for most of our Gulf of Mexico volumes.
This was partly offset by a 21% increase in natural gas realizations between periods.
Lower production volumes primarily due to disruptions from Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico decreased earnings by $85 million between periods.
The Other bar reflects a number of items including an increase in operating expenses related to higher maintenance and other production-related activities as well as lower exploration expenses during the quarter.
Turning to Slide 7.
International upstream earnings were $285 million lower than the second quarter.
An unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects decreased earnings by $470 million.
The third quarter had foreign exchange losses of approximately $250 million compared to gains of $220 million during the second quarter.
As a reminder these are primarily balance sheet translation effects.
Lower liftings primarily due to planned turnarounds in Kazakhstan and the U.K.
decreased earnings by $235 million.
The gain from the previously announced sale of an equity interest in the Wheatstone LNG Project increased earnings by about $600 million.
The sale supports our strategies and growth plans for LNG in the region expanding our existing partnership with Tokyo Electric who have committed to total LNG offerings of 4.2 million tons per year from the Wheatstone Project.
The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including higher DD&amp;A as well as higher operating expenses largely associated with turnaround activities.
Slide 8 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production decreased 108 000 barrels per day between quarters.
We had previously indicated that the third quarter would include higher turnaround in maintenance activity and it did.
Planned turnaround activities primarily in Kazakhstan and the U.K.
decreased production by 78 000 barrels per day.
The second generation plant or SGP turnaround at Tengizchevroil or TCO started the 1st of August and lasted approximately 6 weeks.
This was the first-ever turnaround for this facility and was one of the largest turnarounds Chevron has ever executed.
Annual maintenance at TCO Sour Gas Injection or SGI facility was conducted simultaneously with the SGP turnaround to maximize efficiency and limit production downtime.
More than 6 500 employees and contractors were involved and more than 2.6 million man-hours were worked.
Gas and crude were reintroduced into the units in mid-September and production was safely restored.
TCO's facilities are currently producing at full capacity.
While of a smaller impact turnarounds in the North Sea at Captain Britannia and Jade also hurt production this quarter.
Production has been restored here as well.
The next bar relates to weather.
Weather impacts primarily Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico decreased production by 23 000 barrels per day.
The Base Business bar is largely related to the change in our normal field decline rate between periods which was essentially flat between quarters.
The last bar shows production from recent major capital project startups which decreased by 5 000 barrels per day compared to the second quarter.
We expect production in the fourth quarter to be higher than in the third quarter as production is restored following the weather- and maintenance-related downtimes I just described.
For the full year we expect to come in somewhere around 97% of our original target.
You will recall our original target was 2.68 million barrels of oil-equivalent production per day.
The shortfall is driven primarily by the precautionary shutdown of the Frade Field earlier in the year and delayed startup at Angola LNG.
Next let's move to downstream.
Turning to Slide 9.
U.S.
downstream earnings decreased $346 million in the third quarter.
Lower margins decreased earnings by $20 million driven by significantly weaker marketing margins which were only partly offset by stronger refining margins.
West Coast marketing margins fell more than 40% during the third quarter while product tightness in the West Coast and export demand in the Gulf Coast lifted refining margins modestly.
Overall the August fire at our Richmond Refinery crude unit had little earnings impact for the quarter.
The Richmond crude unit is expected to remain offline through the fourth quarter with restart currently planned for the first quarter of next year.
Other units in the refinery continue to operate although at reduced rates.
Lower volumes decreased earnings by $125 million primarily related to our Richmond Refinery operating at a reduced rate as well as the slowdown at the Pascagoula Refinery due to Hurricane Isaac.
Timing effects represented a $180 million negative earnings variance between quarters driven by the revaluation of inventory and mark-to-market effects on derivatives tied to underlying physical positions.
The swing between quarters was primarily driven by rising crude and product prices during the third quarter compared to sharply falling prices during the second quarter.
The Other bar consists of several unrelated items.
On Slide 10.
International downstream earnings were $936 million lower this quarter.
Lower realized margins contributed $125 million to the decline.
Better crack spreads in Asia were more than offset by falling marketing margins and pricing lag effects for sales of naphtha and jet fuel in key markets.
An unfavorable swing in timing effects mostly attributable to inventory revaluation decreased earnings by $340 million.
Falling prices in the second quarter resulted in a $190 million gain whereas rising prices in the third quarter resulted in a $150 million loss.
The net earnings impact for the year related to timing is negligible as compared to year-to-date earnings of approximately $1.7 billion in the international downstream segment.
Lower gains on asset transactions as well as charges associated with portfolio restructuring in Australia negatively affected the quarter-to-quarter comparison by $245 million and $100 million respectively.
The Other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including lower shipping results and the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange effects.
Slide 11 covers All Other.
Third quarter net charges were $575 million an increase of $284 million between periods.
An unfavorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $134 million decrease to earnings.
Corporate charges were $150 million higher in the third quarter.
Year-to-date corporate charges were $1.4 billion which is higher than our quarterly guidance range of $300 million to $400 million.
However we currently expect fourth quarter corporate charges to be in line with this guidance.
Mike is now going to provide an update on our downstream operations.
Mike? Thanks Jeff.
I know many of you on the line are in New York and have had a pretty tough week so I hope your families are safe and that things get back to normal as soon as possible for you.
Moving to Downstream &amp; Chemicals.
Overall it's been another good year so far.
We continue to deliver on the commitments we've made and our results back that up.
Turning to Slide 13 I'll start with financial performance.
Through 3 quarters we've earned $3.4 billion.
This translates to downstream unit earnings adjusted to exclude special items of $3.10 per barrel which ranks a close second year-to-date based on competitor earnings announcements earlier this week.
Year-to-date adjusted return on capital employed for the full Downstream &amp; Chemicals segment is 18.6% which also ranks #2 among our peers.
Our relative competitive performance on these 2 measures has steadily improved over 2010 and 2011 and continues to remain strong in 2012.
We've got the right strategies and are keenly focused on execution.
I'm confident we'll continue to further improve in the quarters to come.
Moving to Slide 14 here's an update on portfolio actions and the milestones we've achieved this year.
We've exited 8 countries in the Caribbean Islands.
We've also completed several asset divestments including our interest in the Alberta Envirofuels iso-octane plant in Canada; the fuels terminal and former refinery at Perth Amboy in New Jersey; fuels marketing in Spain and certain businesses of GS Caltex in Korea.
And we've recently begun reviewing bids for our fuels businesses in Egypt and Pakistan.
We continue to place emphasis on core markets.
We've simplified our model.
We've reduced costs while returning scale where we have competitive positions all designed to deliver stronger returns.
Our focus is on value not volume.
Now let's move to Slide 15.
Here's an update on our major capital projects starting with Chevron Phillips Chemical.
Already a leader in the production of normal alpha olefins CPChem is constructing the world's largest on-purpose 1-hexene plant at Cedar Bayou Texas expected to start up in 2014.
CPChem continues to make good progress in developing a new world-scale ethylene cracker at Cedar Bayou and new polyethylene units at Sweeny.
Startup of these plants is expected in 2017 with attractive NGL supply underpinning this new capacity.
And CPChem's Saudi joint venture Saudi Polymers Company began commercial production last month at their new olefins and derivatives facility in Al Jubail.
With this startup CPChem becomes the world's largest producer of high-density polyethylene.
Moving to lubricants.
Construction continues in our Pascagoula base oil plant which remains on track for planned startup next year.
This will leverage surplus hydrogen capacity and make Chevron the largest premium base oil supplier in the world.
Our joint venture in Korea GS Caltex is building a gas oil cracker which when completed early next year will make Yeosu the largest processor of heavy oil in Korea.
This will provide greater feedstock flexibility and additional production of high-value products.
And our additive company Oronite is expanding its manufacturing plant in Singapore.
Upon completion of this project expected in 2014 Oronite will have effectively doubled the original size of what is already the largest additives plant in the region.
You can see the focus of our investment here primarily into the more attractive chemicals and lubricants segments.
As these projects are brought online in the coming years they are positioned to generate good returns and earnings growth.
Moving to Slide 16 I'd like to close with a few observations on market dynamics this year.
We continue to see a lot of volatility in both crude and product prices as represented here by the WTI Brent spread and the Gulf Coast unleaded gasoline price.
This volatility not only impacts margins but also creates other effects related to inventory derivative mark-to-market values et cetera that move through our books as Jeff discussed earlier.
Interestingly the peaks and valleys this year have largely coincided with quarter ends which tends to magnify these effects even though average pricing across the quarters would suggest much less movement.
I realize that these are difficult to anticipate and model which is why Jeff provided some insight into the direction and magnitude of these effects in the prior 2 quarters.
I tend to look at our performance on a year-to-date basis or a rolling multiple quarter basis where these movements tend to reverse or offset themselves.
On Slide 17 I've got data over a 2-month stretch of time for the U.S.
West Coast.
The West Coast market -- West Coast gasoline market in particular is somewhat unique in that it's relatively isolated from the world market by geography logistics and product specification.
When the West Coast refineries are all operating normally product supply is adequate to meet demand.
In fact given the demand declines of recent years we even tend to see some capacity to export.
However when supplies move to the low end of their historical range for whatever reason the price typically moves up.
This reflects the higher cost of resupply due to both specification and logistical hurdles and the uncertainty on timing of resupply.
This happened earlier this year and again last month when some capacity went offline due to power interruptions at a time when inventories had already been declining.
The move up in prices was sharp until the market recognized that the capacity would come back online and supplies would rebuild.
I note this because California has embarked on a path of even greater isolation from world fuel markets with its greenhouse gas regulations.
The industry is facing requirements to source blendstocks like Brazilian ethanol from relatively small and distant sources or to blend in nonexistent stocks like cellulosic biofuels.
The pressure on an already high-cost supply chain and potential for further refinery rationalization is only likely to further increase the price premium California consumers pay and also the likelihood of price spikes like we've seen this year.
Chevron has 2 of the 3 largest refineries on the West Coast with good feedstock and product flexibility.
We have the leading retail market share.
We've been in California for more than 100 years.
We understand these markets and are positioned to compete well through a rule period of change and uncertainty.
That concludes my remarks and now I'd like to turn it back over to Pat.
All right.
Thanks Mike.
Turning now to Slide 18 I'd like to focus on recent upstream developments and strategic progress.
On the exploration front we announced further drilling in the Greater Gorgon area with the Satyr-2 and Satyr-4 wells our 15th and 16th discoveries in Australia since mid-2009.
These new discoveries further highlight the quality of Chevron's exploration capabilities and the continued growth of our vast natural gas resources base -- resource base in the Carnarvon Basin.
On a related note I want to point out that the picture that you see on this slide we have now successfully raised the roof on the second LNG tank at Gorgon.
We also made new additions to our worldwide exploration portfolio having been awarded participation in 2 deepwater blocks located offshore Sierra Leone.
We have a significant presence in this region already and are pleased to have the opportunity to participate in the Republic of Sierra Leone's promising deepwater exploration effort.
The Sanctions the Lianzi Project located in the unitized offshore zone between Angola and the Republic of Congo it is the first cross-border development in the region and builds on Chevron's strong position in West Africa.
We acquired additional interest in the Clio and Acme fields through an exchange which was announced in August.
This exchange is strategic and fits nicely with our long-term plans to grow our Australian resource base and create expansion opportunities for the Wheatstone Project.
Also of note this quarter we completed the previously announced sale of an equity interest in the Wheatstone Project to Tokyo Electric.
And finally as recently announced we acquired an additional 246 000 net acres in the Permian Basin.
This new acreage plus our existing acreage gives us a net leasehold position of about 1.5 million acres.
I'd like to say a bit more about this acquisition and our overall positioning plans in the Permian.
Turning to Slide 19.
This slide shows our significant acreage position both within and adjacent to the Permian Basin shown in dark green on the chart.
The map on the chart shows our existing lease positions in yellow as well as the recently acquired acreage in light blue.
The new acreage strategically complements our existing operation and provides us with additional growth potential in the Permian.
The Permian extends from West Texas into the Southeast New Mexico and includes several component basins including the Midland and Delaware Basins.
Chevron is one of the largest hydrocarbon producers in the Permian with approximately 114 000 barrels of oil-equivalent per day production during 2011.
We have over 550 000 net acres in the Midland Basin.
Our current focus areas include the Wolfcamp Cline and Atoka shales and we are on pace to drill ourselves and with partners over 300 wells in 2012.
In the highly prospective Delaware Basin where most  of the recently acquired acreage resides our near-term focus will be on the Bone Springs formation as well as the Avalon and Wolfcamp shales.
We are on pace to drill 12 operated wells during 2012 as well as 16 non-operated wells.
The acquisition has also provided us access to additional people and resources to execute our base business and growth strategy in the area.
While our production in the basin dates back to the 1920s our existing and recently acquired acreage hold significant future potential as these are early-in-life liquids-rich unconventional assets in a premier emerging play.
We plan to provide greater detail on our plans in these area at our Security Analyst Meeting this coming March in New York City.
Turning now to Slide 20 I'd like to close my prepared remarks with a few key points.
2012 is all about execution and we're doing well.
We continue to progress our major capital projects both upstream and downstream.
We are over 50% complete on Gorgon.
Our Wheatstone Project is also progressing well.
I encourage you to follow our progress and to view some recent Gorgon and Wheatstone flyover videos and presentations which are now available on our website.
Our 2 key deepwater Gulf of Mexico major capital projects Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot continue to be on schedule.
We remain confident we are on track to hit our longer-term target of 3.3 million barrels of oil-equivalent production per day by 2017.
This volume growth combined with industry-leading upstream margins which were $23.88 per barrel year-to-date is a large part of the Chevron value proposition for investors.
Another strong and growing element of value for investors has been our distributions to shareholders.
We're currently paying out about $12 billion annually through dividends and share repurchases and we offer an attractive 3.2% yield.
Now this concludes our prepared remarks and we'd now like to take your questions.
We do have a full queue so please limit yourself to one question and a single follow-up if necessary.
We'll do our best to see that we get your questions answered.
Sean please open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My first question is for Pat.
I mean I know it may be premature but I know last year Chevron made a competitive dividend raise and with CapEx likely higher in '13 how do you think about drawing on the large net cash balance to continue to drive a superior and competitive dividend yield as you really bridge to the production growth and harvesting the capital investment that you're making now and in 2014 and beyond? And then I have a follow-up please.
Okay Evan I think it's a good question but frankly I think you've sort of outlined our philosophy there just in asking the question.
We do pay attention to and want to remain highly competitive on our dividend stream and that's why you have seen us over the last several years grow the dividend rate at a -- very aggressively 11% compounded per year.
As we look forward we want to continue that pattern.
We obviously do see once we get into the high-growth periods when major capital projects come online we do see significant cash generation coming forward there.
We take that into account.
We take a look at what our investment profile needs to be between now and then.
And all of those factors get brought into the mix.
Our view of medium-term commodity prices get brought into the mix.
And it's based on all of those factors that we then go forward and have a discussion with our board about our dividend policy.
I think it's very safe to say that our board takes our dividend responsibility very seriously and our desire to remain competitive and grow that stream of income for our investors is a high-priority item.
In fact it's the single highest priority of cash use.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And if I could have a follow-up to take advantage of Mike being on the call.
Mike I know you've talked about the positive trends in the base oil business in the past and you're increasing your premium base oil capacity at Pascagoula.
This is generally a less transparent business in general maybe you could give us an overview of just that U.S.
market your returns expectations for this $1.4 billion expansion? And whether or not there's any additional base oil expansion potential in places like Salt Lake where I know there's also a local high paraffinic crude source? Yes so it is a market that is a little less transparent a little less well understood.
In broad terms the largest portion of the current base oil is a lower technology product called Group I which is made through a relatively simpler process of solvent dewaxing.
That is a lower-performing product.
And ultimately as we see specifications evolve to higher-performance standards and engines evolve to meet more stringent environmental regulations you're seeing the OEMs migrate to a higher-quality lubricant which is the Group II+ or premium base oils which are made through a hydroprocessing technology which Chevron actually is 1 of the 2 primary licensors in the world for and we have some distinct technology advantages there.
So it's -- the Group II or the premium base oil market is a higher-margin market and it is the rapidly growing market as the Group I market declines in demand.
So you've got absolute demand growth for lubricants.
And within that you've got Group I which is the larger portion today shrinking in size.
And so you -- the premium market is growing quite rapidly with the higher margins.
So that's the broad context for that.
We've got a large facility at Richmond right now that manufactures premium base oils with Pascagoula we'll move past Shell to be the largest in the world.
And that product will go not only into the U.S.
market but Europe is a large market and has a very high specification standard.
There's growth in Latin America.
So Pascagoula will feed markets well beyond North America and actually allow us to rebalance some of the Richmond barrels into the growth markets in Asia.
We do have reviews underway for additional investments in that sector.
They likely would be in Asia rather than in Salt Lake City because of the proximity to the markets and some of our existing refining infrastructure that we have in Asia.
While you might have an advantaged feedstock that you could use at Salt Lake City the volumes there would be relatively small but logistics disadvantage to get it to the large growth markets would be nontrivial.
And so I wouldn't expect to see something happen at Salt Lake City but you certainly could expect to hear more in the future about potential projects in Asia.
Research Division</strong> Any comment on returns? And I'll leave it at that.
The returns would be well higher than what we typically get out of our refining projects.
And we expect returns on these kinds of projects to be up in the 20%-ish range.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess while we got Mike on the phone some downstream questions.
Just an update on Richmond? Yes.
So at Richmond as Jeff mentioned the crude unit remains offline today and will remain offline through the balance of the fourth quarter with an expected startup in the first quarter of next year.
We are working closely with outside investigators as well as conducting our own investigation to determine the root cause of the incident and then to share the learnings of that not only broadly within our own organization but also across the industry to try to prevent similar things from happening anywhere.
The preliminary results of our investigation have identified a damage mechanism known as high temperature sulfidation corrosion which led to a general thinning of the piping component that failed.
We're waiting for definitive metallurgical testing to confirm that.
But it is strongly suspected that that is the technical mechanism.
The questions as to why that corrosion had not been identified and addressed are really still the focus of our investigation.
We're working closely with multiple agencies in the city the county and the regional air quality district to expedite the permitting process and effect the repairs to the crude unit.
That work is well underway.
Long lead items have been ordered and some have already arrived.
The work is underway to thoroughly inspect every component within the crude unit and complete the repairs with as I said an expected restart in the first quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> Mike and then just switching to chemicals.
I mean obviously you've got the big ethane cracker.
You've got the hexene-1 plant.
Global demand for chemicals is still going to grow but you know the Middle East is maybe a little bit short on low-cost gas.
When you're thinking about participating in global growth just maybe a philosophical question is it -- are there opportunities for you to continue to deploy capital beyond that ethane cracker or is it better to just sort of hold with what you have and focus on sort of free cash generation for the corporation? Well it's a good question.
It's one that we spend time on with CPChem and certainly at the board there where our partner participates.
We are I think pretty well aligned but we would look for other attractive opportunities.
CPChem's real strengths have been in the olefins and polyolefins chain.
It's underpinned by attractive feedstock in the Middle East as you mentioned and also the position they have in the U.S.
which is highly leveraged to NGL cracking as opposed to naphtha cracking.
So the keys in that business are scale cost efficiency and good feedstock pricing.
I think the big opportunities continue to be in the Middle East and North America although you can't ignore Asia given the size of the market and the demand growth that you see over there.
But some of the feed opportunities are not the same in Asia.
So we are supportive of growth beyond the ethane cracker if we can find a project that has the characteristics that have underpinned the success of CPChem's investments here in recent years.
And we continue to look for those.
And while they may not be easy in the Middle East or North America for that matter they're -- I don't think they're impossible.
So we continue to look for further opportunities.
But we wouldn't support projects that are not strong in their underlying fundamentals for the sake of growth.
Our next question comes from Doug Terreson of ISI.
Research Division</strong> I also have a couple of questions for Mike.
First I wanted to see if there was an update on the $1 billion return enhancement plan for 2012 meaning what progress has been made on the operating expense and margin improvement categories? And also you guys have been -- had continuous improvement over the last several years I think as you mentioned a minute ago.
Are new programs possible for '13? And then second the plan to close the Sydney Refinery should reduce the losses at Caltex in refining and while I realize that the Brisbane plant's advantage from a yield perspective is it clear that it's advantaged enough given the scale of some of the new plants that are coming up in the region or were there other strategic reasons to keep that plant open? So 2 questions.
Okay.
On the $1 billion improvement target that we had set for our refining system I will tell you that we are well on our way to meeting that.
In fact that was measured against an '08 baseline and that was a multiyear program.
And as we began this year we were closing in on the billion.
I can tell you that we are very very close to that.
And I fully anticipate that as we close this year we will have more than met the commitment there.
The extension of the improvement efforts that we've seen over the recent years I would tell you are really going to be in the area of continual improvement on margin self-created margin improvements and continued focus on cost.
The big things that we've done in the portfolio are largely behind us.
I mentioned a number of those today and we are closing out some pieces of that.
The large restructuring of our organization is behind us.
We're managing to hold that in terms of headcount and costs very steady and not see erosion of those benefits.
And now I think the future improvements will come in the form of steady regular expectations for continual improvement on both the margin and the cost side within the business as opposed to the big transformational effort that you saw over the last few years.
And I think that we have every reason to believe that we can continue to grind out further improvements in that arena.
The other thing that will drive financial performance will be some of the investments I talked about which will add strong returns and good earnings growth.
So we intend to continue to improve the financial performance of the business.
On Australia the Kurnell closure was announced and you mentioned the plant at Litton which is in Brisbane.
The decisions on those assets are made by the board of Caltex Australia which is 50% owned by Chevron and 50% publicly traded.
And so really comments on the future of that particular asset are best addressed to them through their IR group.
I think they've made some public statements about Brisbane.
And the fact that it is of similar scale to Kurnell and it faces similar to competitors as you mentioned regionally is not something that I think is lost on the board or the management of that company.
But they're really the ones that need to address the future of that.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just another CPChem question.
When that joint venture was formed I think it was originally with Phillips Petroleum over 10 years ago I mean the outlook for U.S.
chemicals and chemicals itself was very different.
It was more about cost cutting rationalization and you've been very successful with that.
As the business shifts towards potentially being more of a growth mode are you still comfortable with the 50-50 joint venture? And I know you've been very aligned with all the successor companies ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66 but is that still the right structure for this asset? Are there other or better ways to optimize value? Is there a requirement for it to generate free cash flow or would you be willing for this asset to take in cash if there were more attractive investment opportunities? Well you're a good student of the history there Arjun.
It really did start out in a pretty tough environment particularly in North America.
The first decade or a large part of it was characterized by cost reductions and essentially a fix-it-or-exit approach to a number of the businesses that had been struggling to perform.
And that's been a very successful strategy.
The latter part of the last decade we began to see some of these new projects particularly in the Middle East come on and those have been quite successful.
And now we find a portfolio in North America that's well positioned relative to NGL feedstock.
So it's been a very successful venture I think for both shareholders.
And as you mentioned we've stayed quite well aligned with our partners even as they've gone through some changes in ownership from Phillips to ConocoPhillips and now Phillips 66.
Both companies injected not only their assets but really their human capability in the chemicals sector into that business.
And I think we've been well served by that.
I don't have any particular reason to believe that the structure we've got right now won't continue to be successful for us.
We have -- CPChem has actually paid down their debt and so we've not asked for cash to come back to the shareholders but rather asked for them to pay down the debt.
And they have substantial cash generation capability today which will sell-fund all the projects that we see on the drawing board for them for the foreseeable future.
And I think we would deal with -- if there were attractive opportunities to invest in that business that required us to bring cash into the entity there's no reason why we wouldn't do that.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful Mike.
And maybe just a related follow-up.
You've obviously got a massive Marcellus position in Utica potentially as well.
Do the economics of a cracker in that area make sense to you or is it more logical for the gas to get shipped to the Gulf Coast and get processed there into a potential cracker? Well it's a really interesting question.
And I think there are some different opinions out there on that Arjun.
The plus on the Marcellus and potentially the Utica is obviously the high volumes of gas liquids that we could see in that area.
What is lacking is the infrastructure so the frac plans the logistics and the ability to support a cracker with the midstream assets that are so plentiful and well developed down in the Gulf Coast.
And so I think it remains an open question as to whether or not enough of that midstream supporting infrastructure will really emerge that would give you the reliable supply and the ability to operate a world-scale cracker on a highly competitive and reliable basis or not.
Somebody's going to have to build out some of that infrastructure and there's certainly some of that activity underway.
But the Gulf Coast has clearly got that in abundance.
And to the extent you can transport the gas liquids to Mont Belvieu and into that infrastructure that is a real advantage.
And so at this point that's certainly where we've chosen to place our bet on the belief that that infrastructure is mature and in place.
And I think we'll just have to wait and see how the future unfolds for potential investments up in Pennsylvania West Virginia et cetera.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have one for Pat and one for Mike please.
Pat just quickly on the CapEx.
It looks like we're running a little bit light versus the budget for the year.
Can you just give us an update do you expect things to be back-end loaded or are we actually going to come in a little bit less than we thought? Doug if you look at our pattern over the last several years first quarter second quarter third quarter and then fourth quarter we typically are back-end loaded in terms of the expenditure profile.
But if you look at 2012 and how that pattern has unfolded relative to the pattern in '11 the pattern in '10 the pattern in '09 et cetera it's exactly per a typical approach for us.
So yes I think the answer is we will be back-end loaded but it's nothing that is unanticipated or not expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Mike this one is kind of a double-edged question I guess.
Richmond obviously has had its issues in the past and the commentary you made in the -- in your prepared remarks regarding California we've seen a couple of your competitors talk about whether strategically California makes sense for them going forward given the amount of capital it could be required or cost basis and so on.
I'm just curious as to whether you would ever consider either exiting I guess is unlikely but you doing something different with those assets or to go completely in the other direction if there were opportunities to maybe consolidate the West Coast and maybe reap some synergies that could offset some of those additional costs? I was just wondering strategically how you view your position on downstream on the West Coast whether it's core or not? And I'll leave it at that.
Okay.
Well I'll start out with the fact that it is core.
I mean it has been the -- it's where our downstream business began.
It's where -- as I said we've been here for 110 years.
It's one of the largest markets for fuels in the world.
And we've weathered the good times and the difficult times here and we've seen the cycles.
The second part of your question would we consider some sort of a consolidation I'll tell you that's pretty difficult to do from the standpoint of market concentration.
We've got -- as I said we've got 2 of the 3 largest refiners on the West Coast today.
And I'm not sure it's practical that we would be able to acquire another refining asset and get that through all the approval processes.
So unless something changes externally I'm not sure that's a realistic scenario.
We do look at alternate configurations.
We look at alternate modes of operations.
We're pretty circumspect about capital investment into a market that has this overhang of regulatory uncertainty that exists today.
But it has been a very good business for us.
A couple of key attributes.
Our refineries sit very high in the competitive stack on complexity and net cash margin.
So they're not only large but they are able to take in a variety of feedstocks.
They make a good slate of high-value products and relative to our competition they generate margins that sit at the very top.
So they're big and they're more profitable than the competition.
El Segundo in particular also is well integrated into our upstream business.
We run a lot of San Joaquin Valley heavy crude at El Segundo.
And in fact a number of projects in recent years have allowed us to bring more of that into El Segundo.
And so there are benefits that not only accrue in the downstream but also accrue in the upstream.
So it's a core position.
It's a highly competitive position.
We have weathered the cycles here and would believe that we can make a go of it here if anybody can because we know these markets and we've been through the cycles.
The uncertainty that you refer to and I know -- I've heard some of the others in the industry talk about it California has a go-it-alone plan on greenhouse gas emissions.
And it will further deteriorate what is already a weak economy and it will make no meaningful impact on global greenhouse gas emissions.
There'll be a negative impact on jobs on consumers and by design and by intent AB32 and the Low Carbon Fuel Standard will raise fuel prices and further isolate this market from the rest of the world.
So it runs the risk of disadvantaging California businesses by imposing higher costs that aren't borne by out-of-state competitors and the policy is one that we have real questions about.
So we're working with a variety of stakeholders to make sure that the additional costs and market risks are well understood and transparent not only understood by the government and regulators but also consumers and businesses.
And we think they need to understand what we're headed into.
And at the same time we're working on our own plans for how to operate and compete in a world where those regulations come into effect and how we can continue to be the strongest competitor in that market.
So it's not simple or straightforward and there are some uncertainties.
But we believe we can compete better than anybody in that environment.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple 2 upstream questions.
On Kazakhstan and specifically TCO can you just give us an idea of where we are in the cycle of the turnarounds because I know this year was a significant turnaround one of the largest you said in the history of the plant.
And it looks like last year there may have been some downtime too.
So I'm struggling to understand a little bit the cycle of these turnarounds and how large they can be because it has a very large impact on production? Right.
I mean this -- the turnaround that we had this time of SGI really was the first time that we have had a significant turnaround in over the 5-year period of time.
But there can be intermittent once-a-year KTL Train downtimes that are just a normal part of the maintenance program.
This was a very significant turnaround.
It's not expected to have this kind of an impact in successive years here until there's the next big turnaround 5 years from now.
But you can get individual KTL Trains that go down per year.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then can you give us an update on Angola LNG? I may have missed your prepared remarks on that but just trying to figure out where we are with the gas to the plant and also with the LNG production? Sure.
I mean we are still going through kind of the startup process for the plant.
We have had some startup problems and we're not anticipating at this point that there'll be any significant production from A LNG in 2012.
It's not unusual to have startup problems as you're going through the commissioning efforts.
Admittedly we've had a little bit more problems this time than we would have typically expected.
But we do look for A LNG production first LNG to be with us in the first quarter of 2013.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Mike 2 quick questions.
On Slide 10 when you're looking at sequentially to the second quarter say in international refining the margin is down $125 million.
Can you say how much -- I must be missing something because all the benchmark indicator I track whether it is in Singapore Japan they seems to have sequentially up from the second quarter and all your competitors seems to have that.
So is there any particular market that you -- that have seen a down margin environment or were there any particular product that's important to you that have seen that? Yes so let me -- it is a little counterintuitive Paul.
If you look at the Dubai 311 [ph] which is a pretty good proxy for Asian refining margins the 111 is gasoline diesel and fuel oil.
It doesn't include naphtha or LPG both of which have been hammered really hard in the marketplace.
So the realized refining margin that you would expect out of 311 isn't actually a strong as -- what you get isn't a strong as what you would expect because you get the naphtha and LPG.
Couple of our refineries our GS Caltex and our Singapore refinery large and they make a fair amount of both of those products.
There's also some crude lags in a couple of those affiliates that can squeeze their margins that you wouldn't see in the 311.
So there's a piece of it where the capture on that is not as strong as the indicator.
The other thing that's not as transparent I think if you're looking at those indicators is as we see in our actuals are the marketing margins.
And marketing margins are down in general in a rising market.
In particular our large position in Korea has been squeezed by the government and some government intervention in that market and more so than in other markets.
And so we've definitely seen some under-realization of what we would like to see in marketing margins in Korea.
And then we have lagged pricing on a number of our products in marketing.
So jet and naphtha both get sold on a prior month basis.
And in a rising market those prices were weak anyway and now you're selling at a prior month so you're selling even at a lower value relative to current in a rising market.
So there's a number of components like that that are not apparent in a headline refining crack indicator all of which in this market that we've seen in the third quarter were going in the opposite direction of the stronger refining margin.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question is that on the -- I think a lot of people that has been looking at using railroad that maybe as a relatively near term and effective way to ship the discount crude to the refining operation.
Can you maybe help us to understand if there's any active or major initiative that you guys are contemplating or just currently thinking to ship those discount crude to your say 3 coastal refinery or that the opportunities are just not really there for California at all? Well it is certainly something that we look at.
We've run Bakken crude on the West Coast already.
We've run Eagle Ford at Pascagoula not in large volumes but we do understand the logistics to get those discounted crudes into our big coastal refineries.
As you say this crude disconnect it's like real estate.
It's location location location.
And our large coastal refineries are distant from where these advantages really are.
And you can get Bakken crude up into the Pacific Northwest via rail.
You then have the challenge of how do you get it down to the West Coast.
You can do that with barge you can do it with further rail.
And so you've got transhipment costs and then you've got to have the offloading capability in your refineries.
And our refineries really weren't set up for large rail-based receipts of crudes.
So the logistics are tough into the coastal refineries.
They are very good into a couple of our smaller refineries.
So our refinery in British Columbia and our refinery in Salt Lake City have pipeline connections to discounted crudes and they've been able to take full advantage of that.
So we have seen some of our assets that have benefited.
The other thing I would just remind you on the big coastal refineries Paul is they have other advantages that they've historically had which they continue to capture relative to our lightering on the West Coast and some advantages we have there.
Pascagoula runs some discounted Latin American grades and has a lot of flexibility to bring those in.
And so you're constantly optimizing the crude slate on your landed cost of crude via rail or versus these other modalities.
And so that's a part of the normal business.
And we're certainly doing everything we can to take advantage of the discounted crudes in those refineries.
But the opportunities get chewed up a lot in the transportation.
Research Division</strong> Pat can I sneak in a quick one for you? Well we've got some more folks on the line Paul.
Let's move on if you don't mind and we can obviously take them offline.
Thanks very much.
And actually before we get to the next call I just want to make a point out.
I misspoke before on the turnarounds got my acronyms mixed up here.
So the SGP is the unit that goes down once every 4 years or so.
SGI and the KTLs are down typically once a year.
So I just wanted to make that clarification.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
At the risk of exasperating Mike on the California issues Mike have you done any -- or do you have any estimates on what the potential incremental cost is going to be from complying with the greenhouse emissions? And I guess I'm thinking both in terms of any environmental CapEx that you have to put into the business and any uplift in the operating expense although recognizing you might be able to pass that on to the consumer.
And then I guess really what I'm leading to do you get to a situation where you may be better off sourcing CARBOB outside of California and then just shipping it to your refineries? Well there's a wide range of potential incremental costs Jason.
And the reality is our refineries are amongst the most energy-efficient refineries in the world.
And our stationary source emissions are very very low.
The opportunity to spend further capital to mitigate stack emissions of CO2 are -- they're just about tapped out.
And so your choices are go into the market to buy credits and that could be something that we'll see where the market price goes on that.
But we really don't have a lot of opportunity other than cutting runs and restricting supply.
And there are some who believe that is the ultimate way that we'll see people comply is just reducing their coupons which tightens up the market which runs the price risk.
When you get -- if you get fuels under the cap and trade which is anticipated out towards the middle of this decade the costs explode.
And that's where you go from costs in the hundreds of millions of dollars a year to costs in the billions of dollars a year.
And frankly all of this stuff has got to go through to the market.
We cannot absorb it and I don't intend to absorb it.
And so the expectation is that as we see hundreds of millions or billions of dollars of increased costs that translates through into the price of the product and that was the basis for my comment earlier that California's consumers will continue to pay a higher premium than the rest of the country.
And that is the policy path that we are on.
The issue of CARBOB imports is one that we're very sensitive to because if those imports are not subject to some of the same obligations that manufacturers are then you've got a competitive disadvantage.
And that's a subject of discussion with the regulators.
And if in fact it were more economic to import than to manufacture and that's very well what we could do that's got real implications for jobs and investment.
So it's still an evolving and uncertain environment and frankly we're trying to help people understand that the implications of these things if it stays on the track that it's on right now the implications are all bad.
As a former California resident you've got my sympathies.
Okay.
I think we're running over our time here so perhaps one more question and then we'll have to close it off.
Our next question comes from Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mike I'll ask you more of a macro question.
I heard one of your competitors say yesterday they thought we are close to the bottom of a chemical cycle.
I'm not sure whether they're talking about the naphtha base or ethane base but can you maybe make a comment that? And then also from your perspective where you think the downstream product market is in terms of demand growth or decline in your areas of focus Asia and the U.S.? Yes I don't know exactly what you heard yesterday.
What I would tell you is that the chemicals business has been good for those that have gas liquids based feeds.
And so -- and that's mostly what CPChem has.
Naphtha-based crackers have been in a pretty tough environment.
They are the marginal producer and with high crude oil prices naphtha-based cracking margins have not been very attractive at all.
And so we do continue to see growth in demand for the derivatives in the polyolefin chain.
So if there is a belief we're at the bottom of the cycle because you see market demand growth and perhaps some improvement in naphtha-based cracking margins that comes on top of what are already pretty good ethane-based cracking margins.
And so it very well could be the portfolio differences between what we see in our portfolio and what somebody else may see in theirs would account for a different view of the cycle.
The second question on the broader fuels trends and demand.
I am a pessimist to be honest with you.
Europe continues to be a real problem.
The recovery in the U.S.
is not as in my view and the things we see through the people we sell to not as robust as you might believe if you read the headlines.
And I'd give you a couple of other specific data points more globally.
If I look at our sales of marine lubricants they have steadily declined for the last several months.
If I look at our sales of base oil they have steadily declined for the last several months.
Our sales of lubricants in Asia have steadily declined for the last several months.
Our sales of additives in Asia have steadily declined for the last several months.
And so we watch these trends pretty carefully because those are sales into industrial sectors and marine transport is a leading indicator of global economic activity.
And you can see destocking and sometimes there's a fake out where you just see inventories being pulled down and there really isn't an underlying demand trend.
But what we've seen has gone on for enough months that it causes concerns in my mind about the direction of the global economy.
I think China has definitely been slower than people anticipated.
And you don't have the strength in the other regions in the world as well.
So I continue to believe that refining margins although this year we've seen a little bit of strength primarily in the distillate part of the barrel I do not believe the fundamentals for stronger refining margins exist out there.
We see more capacity coming online particularly in China and I think there are real risks on the demand side of the equation.
So we are not building our plans or banking on maintenance of refining margins that we've seen this year and certainly not on improvements.
I think we have to be prepared for a tough refining margin market out there for the near to medium term.
All right.
Let me close off here.
Let me say that we really do appreciate everyone's participation in the call today and your interest in Chevron.
I especially want to thank the analysts on behalf of all the participants for their questions during the session.
So with that I'll close it off and with -- and turn it back to you Sean.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean and Ill be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.<br><br>Id now like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation Mr.
John Watson.
Please go ahead Sean.
Welcome to Chevrons fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington our Chief Financial Officer and Jeff Gustavson who is the General Manager of Investor Relations.
We will of course refer to slides that are available on Chevrons website.<br><br>Before we get started please be reminded that the presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the usual cautionary statement that we have on Slide 2.<br><br>Turning to slide 3 I want to begin where we always do is safety.
We continue to achieve world-class low industrial injury and illness rates.
We had our lowest ever days away from work rate and once the date is finalized we expect to again lead the industry for the second consecutive year on this measure.
We are also focused on process safety with many successes.
Last year we had our fewest number of spills ever which translated to record low spill volume.
We believe this two will be the best in the industry.
Having said this it was not a perfect year.
We do believe that zero incidence is attainable.
We are not there yet but were striving to learn and improve to get incidence free operations.<br><br>Our financial performance in 2012 was quite strong.
We expect when all the 2012 results were in to again post the highest Upstream earnings per barrel by a significant margin and to be very near the top and Downstream earnings per barrel as well.
These excellent financial results validate our strategies and the many past investment decisions.<br><br>Wed like to summarize just a few additional accomplishments from last year.
In our Upstream business were steadily progressing our major capital projects the Gorgon project was over 55% complete at year-end.
And Wheatstone has made good progress as well both from a construction standpoint and in securing of tick commitments through several new long-term LNG supply agreements.
We just posted a short video of recent Gorgon construction progress on our webpage <a href="http://www.chevron.com/" rel="nofollow"><u> </u><u>www.chevron.com</u></a>.
I encourage you to take a few minutes to view the video.
The progress is quite impressive.<br><br>We also continued construction activities on our projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico where Big Foot and Jack/St.
Malo are both on budget and on schedule for start-up in 2014.
We achieved start-up at Usan and Agbami Phase 2 developments in Nigeria as well as Caesar/Tonga Tahiti 2 deepwater projects in the Gulf of Mexico.<br><br>We continue to expand our discovered resource base with asset acquisitions in the Delaware basin in the U.S.
and in Western Canada through an agreement to join the Kitimat LNG project.
We also grew our exploration portfolio by acquiring positions in several new areas and including the Kurdistan region of Iraq Suriname Sierra Leone Lithuania and the Ukraine.<br><br>Our reserve replacement ratio was 112% with ads distributed broadly across Upstream portfolio.
In our Downstream business we completed our three year restructuring plan and have delivered on the commitments we made when we first began simplifying our business streamlining our portfolio.
We do see cost and improving returns all while retaining skill where we have competitive positions.
We also continue to make progress on key growth projects in our lubricants and chemical businesses.
Were very proud of our performance this past year.<br><br>With that Ill turn it over to Pat thank you John.
Slide 4 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The Companys fourth quarter earnings were $7.2 billion or $3.70 per diluted share.
For the year earnings were an impressive $26.2 billion.
This equates to $13.32 per diluted share nearly tied with 2011s record performance.
Return on capital employed for the year approached 19% and our debt ratio at year-end was 8.2%.
2012 marked our 25th consecutive annual dividend increase with an 11.1% rise in the quarterly rate.
This demonstrates our confidence in our future performance and is consistent with our priority of rewarding our shareholders with sustained and competitive dividend growth.<br><br>In the fourth quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares bringing the full year share repurchase total to $5 billion.
In the first quarter of 2013 we expect to repurchase the same amount $1.25 billion of shares.<br><br>Finally Chevron's 2012 TSR was 5%.
We continue to lead our peer group on total shareholder returns for the three-year the five-year and the ten-year period as well as all periods in between.
And you probably noticed we are also off to a strong TSR start so far this year.<br><br>Turning to slide 5 cash generated from operations was $12.9 billion during the fourth quarter.
For the full year cash from operations was nearly $39 billion reflecting our impressive operating performance and the cash generating strength of our portfolio.<br><br>At year end our cash balances totaled $22 billion.
This kept us in a net cash position of about $10 billion at year end.
Our strong cash flow and solid balance sheet continued to be a competitive advantage.<br><br>Now on slide 6 I'll compare the results of fourth quarter 2012 with the third quarter of 2012.
As a reminder our earnings release compares fourth quarter 2012 with the same quarter a year ago.<br><br>Fourth quarter earnings were $7.2 billion nearly $2 billion higher than third quarter results.
Upstream earnings increased $1.7 billion reflecting increased gains on asset transactions and higher liftings.<br><br>Downstream results were up $236 million between quarters driven by favorable inventory effects and gains on asset transactions.
The variance in the other bar reflects a favorable swing in corporate tax items partially offset by higher corporate charges.<br><br>On slide 7 our U.S.
Upstream earnings for the fourth quarter were $241 million higher than third quarter's results.
Higher realizations improved earnings by $40 million driven largely by a 22% increase in natural gas realizations.<br><br>Higher production volumes increased earnings by $85 million between periods reflecting recovery in production post Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico and increased production associated with recently acquired acreage in the Permian Basin.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including favorable tax impacts and the net effect of small asset transactions.<br><br>Now on slide 8 international Upstream earnings were about $1.5 billion higher than the third quarter.
Higher liftings increased earnings by $295 million.
Planned turnarounds in Kazakhstan and in the UK in the third quarter were completed and production from these fields returned to normal levels in the fourth quarter.<br><br>Realizations increased earnings by $95 million reflecting a 2% improvement in average liquid realizations currently in line with the increase in Brent prices.
A favorable swing in foreign currency effects improved earnings by about $220 million.
The fourth quarter had a loss of about $30 million compared to a loss of $250 million in the third quarter.<br><br>Asset sales gains increased earnings by a net $830 million.
Fourth quarter results included a gain of $1.4 billion from the previously announced asset exchange in Australia while the third quarter contained a gain of $600 million associated with the sale of an equity interest in the Wheatstone Project.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including lower exploration expenses.<br><br>Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production increased 152 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Recovery from the impacts of Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico increased production by 23 000 barrels per day.
Absence of planned turnaround activity primarily in Kazakhstan and the UK increased production by 94 000 barrels a day.<br><br>The base business bar includes higher cost recovery volumes and production from newly acquired acreage in the Permian Basin partially offset by normal field declines.
Production for major capital projects increased in the fourth quarter by 7 000 barrels a day primarily driven by the ramp-up of Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico.<br><br>Slide 10 compares full year 2012 net oil equivalent production to that of 2011.
Production decreased by 63 000 barrels per day in 2012.
Frade remained shut-in for the year reducing daily production by 29 000 barrels.
The base business and other bar reflects normal sale decline as well as the impact of smaller asset sales.
Our base decline rate for the year was approximately 4% in line with prior guidance.
Incremental production for major capital projects contributed 85 000 barrels a day driven by the ramp up of Platong 2 gas project in Thailand and Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico as well as the start-up of Usan in Nigeria.
Our original production guidance for 2012 was 2.68 million barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We got short of that guidance by 70 000 barrels per day predominantly due to the Suriname project and the delayed experience with the start-up of Angola LNG.<br><br>Turning to slide 11.
U.S.
Downstream Earnings decreased $125 million in the fourth quarter.
Realized margins decreased earnings by $90 million driven mainly by weaker refining margins on both the Gulf and West coast due to lower demand and higher seasonal gasoline inventory levels.
Improved marketing margins only partly offset the decline in refining margins.<br><br>Volumes reduced earnings by $30 million primarily due to the continued shutdown of the Richmond California refinery crude unit.
A return to normal operations at the Pascagoula Mississippi refinery post hurricane Isaac partly offset the decrease.
Inventory effects represented a $95 million improvement in earnings between quarters largely reflecting favorable year-end LIFO effect.
Operating expenses increased $100 million largely due to higher maintenance transportation and environmental related expenses.<br><br>On slide 12 International Downstream Earnings improved $361 million this quarter.
Higher realized margins benefited earnings by $60 million.
Lower crack spreads in Asia were more than offset by improved marketing margins and pricing lag effects for sales in naphtha and jet fuel in key markets.
Inventory effects represented a $145 million improvement in earnings between quarters mostly reflecting the absence of negative inventory impacts during the third quarter.<br><br>Gains on asset sales combined with the absence of charges associated with the portfolio restructuring in Australia in the third quarter improved earnings by $210 million.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including unfavorable swing and foreign exchange impact.<br><br>Slide 13 covers All Other.
Fourth quarter net charges were $538 million compared to a net $575 million net charge in the third quarter so a decrease of $37 million between periods.
A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in $99 million benefit to earnings while corporate costs was $62 million higher this quarter.<br><br>For the full-year this segment had net charges of $1.9 billion which is higher than our quarterly guidance range of $300 million to $400 million.
Given the number of discrete items that impacted this segment in 2012 we are upping our guidance range for 2013 to $400 million to $500 million per quarter to reflect several miscellaneous items including increased environment remediation costs and higher corporate expenses.<br><br>With that Id like to now turn it back over to John thanks Pat.
Lets turn to slide 14.
In early December we announced $36.7 billion capital program for 2013.
Our capital program is well aligned with our long stated strategy of investing in attractive projects that will deliver volume growth and value growth for our shareholders.
The program supports continued progress at several large Upstream projects under construction notably our legacy LNG projects in Australia and our deepwater Gulf of Mexico developments.<br><br>Continued investments in our current project queue is expected to drive profitable growth through the end of the decade.
We are also increasing our exploration activities including the initial appraisal of recently acquired acreage in the Kurdistan region of Iraq Suriname Sierra Leone and several international unconventional players among other areas.<br><br>Our Downstream investments for 2013 are directed toward our premium base oil facility at our Pascagoula refinery expanded additives production in Singapore and our projects which will enhance the reliability and flexibility of our Global Refining system.
Additional projects will be funded by affiliates in our refining and chemicals joint venture.<br><br>Turning to slide 15 our net production outlook for the year is $2.65 million barrels of oil equivalent per day an increase of about 1.5% from 2012 levels.
This is based on average Brent price of $112 per barrel the same average prices as 2012 and does not assume OPEC curtailments material security or market impacts.<br><br>Our full-year estimate for 2013 is about on par with our fourth quarter 2012 production.
The start up of Angola LNG as well as increased production from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico Thailand and Nigeria are expected to roughly offset base business decline and normal turnaround activities later in the year.<br><br>Although we expect restart production  to restart production at the Frade field in Brazil it will not contribute materially to this year's net production.
Base business decline is still expected to about 4%.<br><br>Our 2017 production target remains intact at 3.3 million barrels per day.
In fact over 90% of the volume contributing to the target is either currently producing or under construction with the remaining volume well understood.<br><br>We'll keep you posted through the year on developments and progress in both our Upstream and Downstream businesses.
We also plan to provide a greater amount of additional detail at our upcoming Security Analyst Meeting in early March.<br><br>That concludes our prepared marks.
We know welcome your questions.
We do have a full queue so please limit yourself to one question and a single follow-up if necessary.
We'll do our best to see that we get your questions answered.<br><br>Sean Research Division</strong><br><br>John I believe you guys hold over 950 000 acres in the Delaware Basin inclusive of last year's asset acquisition and in a larger position in the Permian total making Chevron one of the larger acreage holders we are ramping up rig activity.
In fact we're just looking at some of the material we're going to show you for the SAM meeting that's coming up and we'll give you actually some pretty good rig count data.
And what you'll see is we are ramping up rapidly in the Delaware Basin as you would expect.
We got over  really over 20 in the Permian region that are running right now and we'll give you more specifics about the ramp-up that is headed there.<br><br>Activity in a fewer number of rigs are running up in the Marcellus region Research Division</strong><br><br>Yes.
I just was curious within that if you saw any internal constraints meaning you're able to organically we are.
Having said that I think the industry is very focused on building organizational capability and we've added a significant number of new people and added to our drilling training programs that we have in place both in the United States and overseas.
And so organizational capability we're not going to operate if we don't have people that we think are trained and capable and I think there are pressures on the industry Research Division</strong><br><br>Understood.
And my second question was John I know it's not your favorite topics as well as Pat is the Ecuador litigation.
I know still there has been some positive movement there in the most recent quarter.
We've read the judge directly implicating himself improper conduct as well as plaintiff but also your legal involvement is spreading across the globe now in Argentina and Brazilian courts as well as U.S.
and Canada and The Hague.
So I was wondering if you could just provide any roadmap for activity in 2013 in these various theaters of operation and when the RICO case is set to commence and I'll leave it there.
Thanks.<br> your premises is correct.
We continue to uncover evidence of quite profound fraud in the case and you mentioned that a judge that was actually involved in ghost riding the opinions based on bribes he was receiving from the plaintiffs lawyers has come forward and given a statement in U.S.
court and has provided corroborating physical evidence to support his allegations that he ghost wrote the opinion for the plaintiffs lawyers.<br><br>So you now have a circumstance where we have through video through sworn testimony through email and other means clear evidence that the plaintiffs lawyers have thoroughly corrupted the judicial process in Ecuador and this is an invalid opinion.
I think thats pretty well known by you and others out there.
I think the question is well how do you bring this thing to an end? And I would say that were moving forward in several areas.
The RICO case the wheels of justice move at a certain pace.
We then  weve been moving our RICO case forward we go to trial in New York in October of this year.<br><br>We are actively in the courts in Hague and we expect there are series of rulings that will take place over time.
But there are  weve won virtually every procedural ruling there and expect that we will see some judge  there were already been some judgments that have been put out indicating for example the Government of Ecuador should not do  they should do everything in their power to prevent this false judgment from being enforced which of course theyve ignored.
And so we do expect that there will be possible rulings out of that panel as well.
But there are multiple stages to that  to those cases.
Weve had multiple discovery proceedings in the U.S.
The area that youre probably interested in is the  we believe its an illegal verdict but the plaintiffs lawyers are taking it and trying to use that judgment for recoveries in other countries.
Our view has been that any country that on a rule of law will not uphold this verdict and in fact will throw it out.<br><br>Having said that we have to defend ourselves.
And so were doing it in Canada Argentina and Brazil.
You should know that these cases take time.
There are number of procedural steps that take place.
And so first there are jurisdictional issues that are worked and it takes a while if you ever get through those hoops to get to the merits.
And our view is that when theres been a fraud committed by the court that no government with a functioning judiciary is going to uphold this and the countries where these enforcement actions have been filed we think ultimately well support our rule of law Im still perplexed by what's the large subsequent to the Gorgon CapEx announcement.
John and Pat Paul.
We've talked about the priorities for our cash made.
Ill just -- for the benefit of everyone online Ill just repeat them.
Our uses of cash were geared toward paying and sustaining and growing the dividend funding the capital programs that are required to make our earnings and cash flow grow keeping some capacity on the balance sheet for the ups and downs in the commodity markets and changes that can take place in the business and finally returning cash to shareholders through repurchases and thats been our strategy for a long long time.
Youre correct; we have more cash than debt on our balance sheet.
But I think if you look at our capital program that weve announced this year where the cash portion of the C&amp;E is about $33 billion.
If you look at the cash that we generated this year and you can use your own estimate of what commodity prices and margins are going to be.
It would be pretty easy to add at the current rate of dividend and repurchases some $12 billion in distributions and see that our net cash balances will come down this year based on a reasonable forecast.
Ill tell you that between now and the end of 2014 you should see our net cash less debt -- that net number that we talk about will come down over time.
I dont know exactly what commodity prices will be during that period but it will come down to a combination of significant capital spending which we have underway this year and next dividends and repurchases the we'll size to get our balance sheet back down to something with a little more net debt on the balance sheet than we've had previously.
We have had a conservative balance sheet.
Prices have been a little bit higher than we've expected John.
John you said you're relatively bullish on oil prices and you like the shape of your portfolio.
There is a U.S.
oil revolution underway and you do seem relatively underway in that area we are investing in a big way in the United States of course offshore with our developments at Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot and the exploration program that we have in the Gulf of Mexico.
I think you're probably referring to some of the onshore activity.
And again we've had a longstanding position in California that produces oil.
We've had a mature business and a lot of acreage in West Texas.
And then we've recently added to that with the acquisition that we  well we picked up some acreage in New Mexico from Chesapeake.<br><br>Our unconventional production we told you last year that our unconventional production around the world 175 000 barrels a day by 2017 that was not an insignificant portion of the increase in our production between now and 2017 would be in the unconventional and a lot of that's in the United States.
And I think what you'll see when we come back for the SAM presentation in a month or so is that number will be higher.
And it will be a function of the ramp-up of activity in the Permian area as well as some successes that we expect to see in the Marcellus and in the Utica.<br><br>So I'll tell you we tend to be returns focused when we make investments.
And I'll tell you right now a lot of what we see a lot of transactions come across our desk but we take on opportunities where we think on a full cycle basis including the acquisition costs we can generate solid returns.
And right now there are assets that are selling that we think are very pricey.<br><br>Now we feel very good about the acquisition of acreage from Chesapeake.
That was a complex transaction but we think we negotiated a good deal there.
We feel particularly good -- although it's not oil we feel particularly good about the transaction in Canada.
It's an enormous resource that we picked up that ultimately will produce LNG for export that will be at oil-linked pricing.
And so I'd prefer an area where we can make a good return.
Being very honest we don't have a position in the Bakken.
I think I've said before if I can wind back the clock and see that well it'd be nice to have a position.
But it's very pricy right now.
And to just pour a bunch of capital in there and enter that fray when we went to FID back in 2009 oil prices were in the 60s the Australian dollar was at 86 or so.
And we don't hedge foreign exchange exposure because we think the Upstream dollar is pretty well hedged to commodity prices.
And that actually has proven to be accurate.
So part of the increase which you saw in cost was from foreign exchange in fact about a third of the cost increase.<br><br>The areas where we had some challenges were really in the area of logistics and that was fairly unique to Barrow Island which some of the quantities of materials proved to be larger than expected.
And the logistics there's a large fleet of vessels moving goods and materials onto Barrow Island.
And we have learnt from that.
So I think that in terms of things that triggered the cost increases at Gorgon I think we've learned well about the logistics.
But I  Wheatstone is an onshore project its not on Barrow Island so I think the circumstances are just a little bit different.
Some of the learnings that are key to us are that you better get your infrastructure in order.
So for example were working very hard right now on simple things like beds and roads and infrastructure and that is going quite well at Wheatstone.
At times we were impacted by weather as we were constructing the beds and other facilities in the infrastructure in the early days at Gorgon.
There were a number of cyclones that went through the area and that impacted us.<br><br>So we know that infrastructure is critical path and were working very hard there.
Now there are number of other learnings and synergies if you will that will come from the people and procurement and other activity on Gorgon that of course will be applied to Wheatstone.
So were doing our best to learn from Gorgon and other projects as we move forward.
Now remember Wheatstone went to FID at  sort of parity with the Australian dollar if I could just follow-up please on the comment that you made about oiling pricing for the Kitimat project that might be considered somewhat of a controversial remark in that as soon as it was announced that we were coming into that project our phone started to ring.
So buyers  were a credible buyer in the marketplace and I think buyers throughout Asia Japan Korea etcetera are very interested in Chevron and interested in the project.
Im going to show you a little bit information at the SAM coming up in a month or so because there is a lot of talk about the different pricing for LNG and there is always a balance between supply and demand.
And what we see is continuing growth in demand there is a lot of gas out there but pulling these projects together and getting them online getting them online in time to meet that demand is a different matter.
And I can tell you that it takes a large capital commitment and most companies in the world arent going to make that commitment without having pricing that gives them a fair return and that pricing is going to need to be something close to oil parity or the projects  the projects won't get built.
And so well talk more about that.
I know that there are different contract negotiations going on in the industry but and talk of S-curves and things of that sort but so far we have been able to keep our contracts on an oil link basis and have expectations that well have strong pricing going forward or frankly these projects won't go.
So I mean Research Division</strong><br><br>Ive got a couple of quick ones hopefully.
First of all a follow-up to Jasons question Research Division</strong><br><br>Yeah Research Division</strong><br><br>On the Downstream side since that time we've been going through the regulatory reviews as you would expect and going through the repairs that have been necessary and were nearing the end of that repair work and we really have a couple of steps that are left one is an order prohibiting use which has to be lifted by Cal/OSHA and the second is our own sort of pre-start safety reviews that would be normal and customary to bring the crude unit back up.
So were really targeting the first quarter and I have no reason to think it will be other than that at this time.
The repair work is going well.
And it's been arduous getting permits and going through the process here in Richmond Research Division</strong><br><br>Okay actually no.
I mean we did have a third quarter -- there was the asset transaction a negative impact associated with the Australia restructuring.
So Research Division</strong><br><br>Okay Research Division</strong><br><br>Absolute Research Division</strong><br><br>Okay Research Division</strong><br><br>Hi Research Division</strong><br><br>Great you know what I'm going to wait until we close the transaction before I comment.
Apache has been doing -- Apache and partners have been doing the work thus far and we hope to close the transaction soon and we'll become the operator at the plant and pick up where they've left off and they have done quite a bit of work.
But it's too early for me to talk about the specifics because frankly we're not yet in the project per se.
So give us a pass for now and as we close the transaction and can follow-up on the due diligence work that we've done and really look more closely Research Division</strong><br><br>Great.
Thanks.
So my follow-up is going back to our lunch in December I wish I could give you an update but there's been a petroleum bill in progress in Nigeria for several years now.
And frankly I was just going to say the bill is currently in the National Assembly and as John said it's been under review for a long period of time and we really can't say much more about which way we think this will go.
We've been on record as saying that as it's constructed it's not an incentive for further investment Research Division</strong><br><br>So (indiscernible) pretty far along though right now the uncertainty is resulting in reduced activity.
So they do need to come to resolution Research Division</strong><br><br>All right folks.
Thanks for the answers Research Division</strong><br><br>Thank you.
Good morning.
John maybe it's a little bit of an oddball question.
Over the last 10 years I think a lot of people both in the industry and host government believe the resources become more scarce.
You see oil has already been tapped and so they have been pushing tougher and tougher terms.
With the last several years of the newfound opportunity set in North America and quite frankly Paul.
I can't say that I've seen a relaxation in terms.
What I will say is that it's a competitive market out there and countries that put forward terms and conditions that don't allow us to make a fair return we look elsewhere.
The reality is we have a long queue of opportunities.
It's as good as it's ever been since I've been in the Company and we have more opportunities coming at us every day at all phases of development from exploration all the way up through discovered resources and other opportunities and so we can be a little bit choosey and capital does move across the globe and goes to where the returns are.<br><br>I'm not going to single out specific countries but I think you know well that there are a number of countries where activity has ground to a halt and it's ground to a halt because investors do have choices and they are not going to go where they don't have the certainty of the returns of fiscal environment and other conditions necessary to invest.
So Research Division</strong><br><br>Can I ask as a follow-up that on in the last say 10 years that in some times that we have seen some foolish behavior from some of your competitors in rushing in some project and are setting really bad terms.
In your discussion and when you chat with your peer or what you can see in your partner I am not going to comment on our competitors.
What I will say is for us is we have to see the right fiscal terms in order for us to invest.
One of the areas we've talked about before that was frankly disappointing to me in many ways because we worked very hard within Iraq.
Where going way back to 2003 we had been providing technical support and training and we had hoped that there would be an opportunity to enter Southern Iraq.
And when we  when push came to shove in those bid rounds we just didnt see that the opportunity measured up.
Were always value focused in what we do.
We are not barrel focused per se.
Those are great resources but we didn't see an opportunity to make money.
So we politely passed on bidding and moved on to other opportunities.
I can't speak for others but thats the calculus we go through.
We want to help nations grow and develop their resources and we are working closely with the regulatory authorities to restart production but I won't give you an estimated date until we can complete the discussions to settle some of the litigation that's involved there and the discussions have been good.
Angola LNG is different.
We do expect Angola LNG to start up in the second quarter so we do have a partial year of production and in fact that's the single largest contributor.
If you look at our major capital project wedge on production for 2013 Angola LNG is the largest single project.
It will start up in the second quarter and will ramp-up over the course of the year.
At full capacity after full ramp-up Angola LNG contributes about 60 Inc.
Research Division</strong><br><br>Okay.
My follow-up is on your 2017 production.
You said that you had 90% of the volumes in  ongoing in order to meet that.
Whats the extra 10%? And Im just wondering but a significant number of those are producing today and will be online and still be online in 2017.
We have projects that are under construction projects like Jack/St.
Malo in the Gulf of Mexico.
That will be on production and ramped up and will contribute but it's not contributing today.
So that's a project that's under construction.<br><br>We also have projects that are in FEED or front-end engineering and design and then we have that will come to a final investment decision investments will be made and they will start up.
And then we have other smaller capital projects that have a shorter cycle time to them.
So that remaining 10% are typically shorter cycle time projects that we know are coming or projects that have not yet -- are not yet under construction.<br><br>An example of some of the projects that will ramp up are some of -- the very activity in the Permian and elsewhere in the United States smaller projects in Thailand and Indonesia places like that.
So we have good knowledge of what's in there.
What we're saying is is the project itself may not be under construction right now on that remaining 10%.
We're going to give you heck of a lot of detail on all of this information as we get up to the SAM meeting.
I'll just say that we have greater certainty and knowledge and confidence today than a year ago on that 2017 target.
We have work to do Inc.
there was some contribution from the future growth project.
We've been working with the government and our partners on FGP.
In fact I was in Kazakhstan late last year and the President was very supportive of the project and wanted us to move it forward expeditiously.
It does have a long lead time to it.
We've had to work through issues with our partners.
We've done that and we expect that startup will be in 2018.
So we've been able to replace the barrels that we had previously earmarked for 2017 from Tengiz with other opportunities.
And of course that means that we will have growth beyond 2017 from that very significant project Inc.
Inc.
you understand why we keep it at the $79 rate Inc.
the next project at Tengiz is a 250 000 to 300 000 barrel a day gross project and we have about half of that.
So it's a significant contributor but there are other changes that have taken place in the portfolio.
There are other opportunities as well.
But essentially as that project moved out just a little bit Inc.
Research Division</strong><br><br>Okay.
Thanks very much actually I just had a review recently and both Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot are on schedule for start-up next year.
They're both going well.
They're both over 50% complete.
Big Foot some two-thirds of the way long; Jack/St.
Malo is close to 60% along.
We've got development drilling that's taking place a couple of rigs that are working in Jack/St.
Malo now.
So the progress is good.
We'll give you a little more color around that next month at the SAM meeting but the progress is good.<br><br>2014 will be a good year for us production-wise.
We'll have in addition to those projects coming on during the year we'll have full year of activity from Angola LNG.
We'll have substantial contribution from Papa-Terra Escravos gas to liquid and others.
So we expect 2014 to be a pretty good year.
And pretty consistent with what we've talked to you about before where on this 2017 pathway the growth would be back-end loaded Research Division</strong><br><br>And then just switching to Shale I mean you mentioned 175 000 barrels a day contribution to 2017.
You may not have the numbers but just maybe a rough sense of how much of that 175 000 comes from say the Permian the Duvernay Inc</strong><br><br>John previously you mentioned the value of integration given that you never really know where the rents are going to be in the oil and gas business.
Given the growing U.S.
volumes your participation in the unconventional and Gulf of Mexico some of these volumes that may trade at a discount to global oil prices.
Does it make sense at this point to maybe reevaluate your U.S.
refining position and particularly get involved in maybe some of these areas in the U.S.
whether it be the Mid-Con or the Gulf Coast that may see long-term benefits from this or is the focus still more are we thinking about buying a refinery I would tell you thats not something that were looking to do.
Our involvement really is along the lines you described where we do have low cost liquids and our terrific position with Chevron Phillips Chemical Company allows us to take advantage of that both for existing assets and this expansion project at the Chemical Company has discussed.
So thats the primary way that we will take advantage of it.<br><br>Now I will say that weve got two refineries that do take advantage of low-cost feedstock.
We have a refinery at Salt Lake; we have a refinery at Burnaby in British Columbia and those two refineries take advantage of low-cost feedstocks and were always looking for ways to try to get lower-cost feedstocks into our West Coast and Pascagoula refineries.
Thats a little tougher.
Weve moved a little bit there but its a longer haul.
So its not clear that we will be able to take advantage of it in that way.
But weve got quite a bit of efforts really  were pretty full up on what we think as goods investments in the Upstream end of the business.<br><br>But over time Inc</strong><br><br>Okay.
Thanks.
And then you mentioned sort of the premium that was on unconventional opportunities here in the U.S.
particularly in the Bakken do you see more value and maybe internationally where the markets are a little bit less developed and maybe where you can apply a bit more expertise and have a bit more value add on the unconventional side or  if you look internationally as well our commercial philosophy is to go in where we can bring technology or something unique.
We favor early low cost entries where we can add value over time through the application of our technology or know-how.
When it gets down to a pure bidding war with a lot of different players  in the U.S.
there is a lot of money thats looking for opportunities and if its not a particularly difficult entry for a party it means there will be a lot of bidders and prices get bid up.<br><br>So while the resources are very good and well understood in the U.S.
and in many cases are quite prolific were focused on the kind of returns we can get.
And so we have made selective entries in the U.S.
we feel good about those entries done well in Canada.
And weve picked some acreage overseas notably in half a dozen countries in Central Europe we have a preliminary agreement in South Africa Argentina China et cetera.
Those are more exploration plays and are early stage entries.
They dont represent a significant capital commitments but the upside if they're successful will be significant.
We think we will be able to add value.<br><br>Similarly in more conventional exploration there are parties that come to us because of our knowledge and expertise in deepwater that they want an experienced partner and were able to typically negotiate arrangements that are better than just an open bidding.
In some cases we work directly with the government on awards and in other cases we work with smaller companies that may have accumulated acreage over time.
Thats why youve seen weve added in acreage in Sierra Leone Inc</strong><br><br>Okay I don't think we have anything new to talk about on the contracts.
We're over 80% placed on Wheatstone and in the mid-60s on Gorgon.
So I just wanted to make sure I just didn't misunderstand obviously I did.
Next one on the Gulf of Mexico you have to do more BOP testing today.
How has that kind of changed your development costs given the new regulations in the Gulf several things have changed in the Gulf of Mexico for us.
If you really look at what's happened the regulatory environment of course is -- obviously there's a great deal of attention to the regulatory environment.
So the permitting process itself takes time the n-number of inspections that takes place is significant.
There are extra casing strings that can be required at times added BOP inspections added costs being a part of the Marine Well Containment Company et cetera.
So  plus other cost pressures that you're seeing in the business.
So we have seen some cost increases in addition to that rig rate.
So over the past several years it's not unusual to say 20% to 25% increase in costs have been seen by the industry.
And that's just the reality of doing business today.
Of course I think that's been speculated about.
Our view is that there are always a queue of projects that are discussed.
And if you look closely at what's discussed versus what actually gets built there is a difference between the two.
I said earlier on the call that I don't think that you'll see what I could call speculative development of LNG sites without some certainty around contracts and sales prices.
My view is is it's going to take substantial prices to underpin developments of these tens of billions of dollars in spending that's going to be required.
And therefore some projects will go and some will not.
We think that we have a leg up in terms of the relationships we have the credibility we have our ability to construct facilities in our discussions with the buyers.<br><br>Next month at the SAM meeting I'll show you a little bit of information about our view of both supply and demand for worldwide LNG and what we see is continued growth in demand and supply that tends to continually get pushed out because the lead time on these projects is long.
It's now at a point that -- it's pretty close to six years.
And so you can see these projects coming and there maybe announcements made but until you see FID until you see construction happen we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
My name is Sean and Ill be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Ill now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Good morning everyone and thank you Sean.
Welcome to Chevrons first quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today is Jeff Gustavson General Manager Investor Relations.
We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevrons website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown on Slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The Company's first-quarter earnings were $6.2 billion or $3.18 per diluted share.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 18%.
Our debt ratio at the end of March was approximately 9%.
In the first quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares.
In the second quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.
Turning to slide 4 this week Chevrons Board of Directors declared a $1 per share quarterly common stock dividend payable in mid-June.
This is an 11% increase and reflects the performance and strength of our current portfolio and are confident in our compelling growth prospects.
Since 2004 our dividend has grown at a compound annual rate of 11% a growth rate that is well in excess of the S&amp;P 500 and better than our peers.
You can see this on the left chart.
This pattern demonstrates the priority be placed on rewarding our investors through increasing distribution.
The chart on the right provides updated information on five-year rolling total return to shareholders through the end of the first quarter.
Our strong financial and operational performance and superior growth prospects for both production and value are being recognized by the market.
We have led on this rolling total shareholder return for an extended period of time now and we are off to a strong start in 2013.
Turning to slide 5 cash generated from operations was $5.7 billion during the first quarter a lower level than it has been in some time.
This was primarily the result of working capital impact.
Overall working capital requirements for the Company increased by $3.4 billion in the quarter.
This working capital consumption of cash was principally in our Downstream operation.
This is not an atypical pattern for us for the first quarter of the year though this quarters increasing working capital requirements is larger than we have usually seen.
The increase reflects the timing and pricing of commodity purchases and sales between quarters as well as the operational downtime we had at several refineries this quarter.
The vast majority of these effects are temporary in nature and the impact that cash flow are expected to reverse in future quarters.
Importantly our Upstream business continues to generate strong cash flow.
Capital and exploratory expenditures were $8.2 billion during the quarter including expenditures associated with our buying to the Kitimat LNG project.
We've continued to maintain a strong balance sheet and at quarter end cash balances exceeded $19 billion giving us a net cash position of almost $5 billion.
Jeff will now take us through the quarterly comparisons.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to slide 6 I'll compare results of the first quarter 2013 with the fourth quarter 2012.
As a reminder our earnings release compares first quarter 2013 with the same quarter a year ago.
First quarter earnings were $6.2 billion about 1 billion lower than fourth quarter results.
Upstream earnings were down $942 million reflecting the absence of fourth quarter asset transaction gains partly offset by higher realizations and a favorable swing in foreign currency effects.
Downstream results decreased $224 million between quarters driven by lower volumes largely associated with seasonal maintenance activity in the absence of fourth quarter asset transactions partly offset by a positive swing in foreign currency effects.
The variance in the other bar largely reflects lower corporate charges.
On slide 7 our U.S.
Upstream earnings for the first quarter were $231 million lower than fourth quarter's results.
Higher realizations improved earnings by 95 million driven largely by an increase in crude oil prices.
Lower production volumes decreased earnings by $80 million mainly due to increased maintenance activity in the Gulf of Mexico and fewer producing days in the quarter.
The net of higher DD&amp;A and lower operating expenses reduced earnings by $85 million.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including the absence of favorable tax effects and gains on small asset transactions in the fourth quarter.
Turning to slide 8 international Upstream earnings were $711 million lower than the fourth quarter.
Earnings increased approximately $130 million due to higher realizations partly offset by lower liftings.
A favorable swing in foreign currency effects improved earnings by about $200 million.
The first quarter had a gain of $170 million compared to a loss of $30 million in the fourth quarter.
Lower operating expenses increased earnings by about $200 million between periods primarily due to reduced maintenance activities and employee costs.
The other bar reflects a number of items including favorable tax effects in addition to lower exploration expenses.
Finally earnings decreased by about $1.5 billion between quarters primarily due to the absence of the gain on the Browse asset exchange recognized during the fourth quarter.
Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production decreased 23 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Lower cost recoveries on production-sharing contracts spread across multiple countries reduced production by about 16 000 barrels per day.
This is an investment timing issue which we noted in our interim update.
The base business and the other bar includes the impact of planned turnaround activity weather disruptions and normal field declines.
Contributions for major capital projects increased first quarter production by 9 000 barrels per day primarily driven by Perdido in the Gulf of Mexico and Platong II in Thailand.
Turning to slide 10 U.S.
Downstream earnings fell $196 million between periods.
Lower volumes reduced earnings by 190 million primarily due to planned maintenance at the Pascagoula Mississippi and El Segundo California refineries.
First quarter 2013 was a particularly heavy refinery maintenance period for the company.
Maintenance at both Pascagoula and El Segundo has now been successfully completed.
We also reintroduced feedstock to our Richmond Refinery crude unit earlier this week and will continue bringing the Downstream conversion units to full capacity over the coming days.
Weaker margins decreased earnings by $65 million.
Seasonally weak demand particularly for gasoline combined with rising crude cost pressured refining and marketing margins.
The other bar reflects several miscellaneous items including lower operating expenses higher chemical earnings and the absence of year-end LIFO inventory drawdown benefits that were recognized last quarter.
On slide 11 International Downstream earnings were $28 million lower this quarter.
Lower volumes reduced earnings by $75 million primarily due to plant maintenance at the Burnaby Canada and Cape Town South Africa refineries.
Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $95 million reflecting lower transportation and environmental expenses.
Foreign currency effects represented $175 million positive earnings variance between quarters.
First quarters FX gain was about $75 million compared to a fourth quarter loss of $100 million.
Gains on asset transactions were $135 million lower reflecting the absence of prior quarter asset sales.
The other bar again reflects a number of unrelated items including lower shipping results weaker lubricants margins and higher withholding and other tax related charges.
Slide 12 covers all other.
This segment broadly consists of corporate administrative functions our worldwide cash management and financing activities as well as our mining power generation real estate and energy technology and services businesses.
First quarter net charges were $439 million compared to $538 million in the fourth quarter a decrease of $99 million between periods.
A favorable swing in corporate charges resulted in $111 million benefit to earnings while corporate tax items were $12 million higher this quarter.
With that I would now like to turn it back to Pat.
Okay.
Now turning to slide 13 last month we held our annual security analyst meeting where we provided updates on our projects and future growth plan as well as our financial performance relative to our key competitors.
We now have fully updated relative performance data in a couple of areas.
Segment returns on capital employed and Upstream cash margins.
First our Upstream adjusted return on capital employed was 21.5% for 2012 and we can confirm this placed us in the number one position relative to our major piers for the second year in a row.
We completed the restructuring of our Downstream business and our adjusted return on capital employed in 2012 improved again to over 18%.
Here we rank a strong number two against our piers and we have been closing the gap versus the leader for each of the last five years.
Slide 14 shows our updated Upstream cash margin comparison.
We have led the pier group in Upstream realizations for several years a trend which continued in 2012 combined with our competitive cost structure and the quality of our portfolio we also continue to lead the pier group on unit cash margins.
In fact our cash margin of just under $37 per barrel exceeded the average cash margin for our pier group by $11 per barrel or over 40%.
This superior performance is a function of the quality of our assets as well as our strong execution capabilities.
Turning to slide 15.
I would like to share some highlights of the strategic progress we made during the quarter.
We announced successful well test results at St.
Malo in the U.S.
deepwater Gulf of Mexico where oil flow rates while limited by testing equipment constraints exceeded 13 000 barrels per day.
With new technology we saw drilling efficiencies and good reservoir stimulation and this boards well for improving the recovery and the economics on our existing and future Gulf of Mexico projects.
The Big Foot haul has arrived in the Gulf of Mexico and the Jack/St.
Malo haul is on its way.
The picture is of the Jack haul being transported.
We announced the signing of a binding long-term sales and purchase agreement with Chubu Electric to deliver one million tons per year of LNG from the Wheatstone Project.
Our Wheatstone LNG project has over 80% of its off-take secured under long-term sales contracts.
In the Downstream our new gas oil cracker achieved start-up making the Yeosu Refinery in South Korea the largest processor of heavy oil in that country.
We continue to be successful with our exploration program with new discoveries at Coronado in the U.S.
deepwater Gulf of Mexico and in Australias Carnarvon Basin where we announced discoveries at Kentish Knock South and the Elfin-1 prospect.
The Elfin-1 prospect is our 21<sup>st</sup> discovery since 2009.
We added new offshore exploration acreage in both Morocco and China.
We also reached an agreement to enter the Cooper Basin in Australia another early low cost entry opportunity focused on unconventional resources.
And finally we recently sanctioned the Moho Nord development located in the Republic of Congo the largest ever oil and gas development in that country.
I'd like to close by saying we're off to a great start in 2013.
Earnings were strong.
Upstream activity is on plan not only in terms of production but also in terms of executing well against our major development project milestones.
I encourage you to visit our investor website where we recently posted updated photos of our progress on our Gorgon and Wheatstone projects.
We also continue to pursue future profitable growth opportunities which will create additional value for our shareholders over time.
Our healthy dividend growth pattern remains in place.
This marks our 101st year of paying dividends and our 26th consecutive year of growing our annual dividend distributions.
We continue to provide the strongest returns to shareholders offering a good balance between share price appreciations and dividend yield.
We truly appreciate you listening in this morning and your interest in the company.
I'd like to know open up the microphones for questions.
We do have a full queue so please limit yourself to one question and a single follow-up if necessary.
We'll certainly do our best to see that we get all your questions answered.
Sean please open up the lines for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from Ed Westlake with Crdit Suisse.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
Good morning Pat.
I've got a quick question on the tax rate if I may.
Obviously it dropped down to 39.3% and you flagged favorable tax rates in some of the commentary.
Are there any sort of structural changes here in terms of shifts or is this just tax optimization in the quarter? There's nothing structural here Ed.
As you probably know that as certain projects mature and particularly as they get to the FID stage it's not unusual to have certain tax impacts triggered by reaching that project milestone and that's really what we saw occurring here in the first quarter.
That's what gave us a low effective tax rate in first quarter '13.
We expect this to balance out over the end of the year.
And so I think from a longer term perspective thinking back to the 2012 effective tax rate which is about 43% that's a pretty reasonable place for you to peg the overall expectation for the year.
Thanks that's very helpful.
And then just switching topics on natural gas in the U.S.
obviously a bit of benefit from Marcellus and Atlas over the last couple of quarters but the gas price I guess it's rebounded a little bit.
Should we expect that gas production probably turns down a little bit as it started to in the first quarter as you go through the balance of the year? Well I think what we have said in the past we have really restricted all of our dry gas production to minimal amounts principally in the Marcellus area.
And of course we're being helped there economically by the carry that it's still in place.
All the rest of our gas production efforts really are geared towards heavy liquids concentration efforts.
And so we should continue to see those ramp up.
Okay thanks very helpful.
Thanks very much.
Okay.
Thanks Ed.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Good morning Pat and Jeff.
Good morning Evan.
Good morning.
Let me ask maybe a longer term question of how you think about the longer term CapEx and cash return strategy.
And I ask in the context of my view Chevron's relative free cash flow inflection in 2014 '15 time period as you begin to see the cash benefit of these relatively heavier and current period of capital investment.
And the question hence becomes do you believe that when you likely have incremental cash during this period the cash returns to shareholders via buybacks or dividends increase or that you see additional reinvestment opportunities in the portfolio to maybe replicate this '14 to '17 growth period.
How do you think about that? Okay.
Well I would say broadly.
I mean first of all we believe the best way over time that we create value for our shareholders is by making the right investment choices.
And if we have a strong queue if we have projects that are very nicely attractive nicely economic then obviously that's an important element for us.
We have been in a stage where we have had very nicely attractive projects.
And so that is really what has given rise to the heavy investment period of time.
We do take our dividend commitment to our shareholders very very seriously.
That is the first priority of return of distributions to the shareholders.
So you should expect that to continue to grow as long as earnings and cash flows continue to grow and we of course are able to grow earnings and cash flows if we invest appropriately.
So we work very harder trying to get that balance right between attractive projects for investment in the business and then also dividend distributions to the shareholders.
If we get into periods of times where we have surplus cash free cash flow beyond the C&amp;E requirement beyond the dividend requirement thats really what we pay to your share repurchase program to distribute.
And we look at that every quarter we evaluate what we think the kind of the medium term requirements for the firm are in terms of reinvestment we obviously have a hypothesis about what our Board might do on dividends.
We look at what we think is happening from a commodity price standpoint and therefore what net generation into the firm might be and that's how we take our share repurchases.
It is the most flexible element of our cash distribution formula.
I mean then I understood I mean let me try may be what  kind of one different way and if I could I mean the percentage of CAPM thats invested in the project queue that is not anything I need to know about today is relatively higher than where its been historically.
I think you gave a 35% number at the Analyst Day and I know there is lot of variabilities but under current conditions would you expect that to normalize back into this -- 25% to 30% range once you are exiting this kind of peak spending period through call them the 2015 timeframe? I will leave it at that.
Thanks.
Okay and I think the best guidance I can give you on that would be to have you take a look at the duration of the investment cycles for some of the projects that we have underway.
When you're talking about LNG projects of course we have got Gorgon and Wheatstone underway we have Kitimat which is just in a very very embryonic stage here but those have very long investment cycle 60 months plus.
That's much different than what you would get in sort of the factory investment types of cycles that you might achieve and say a Permian ramp up for example.
So I think you need to look at the kinds of projects that we have in our queue and the overall investment cycle times for those projects in the queue.
And that is going to give you an indication of how much pre-productive capital we might have built up on our balance sheet at any point of time.
I did say back in March that our pre-productive capital was in the high 30s and that is an abnormally high level for us.
And so all things being equal once you get through the heavy spend period we would expect that to come down as long as we don't have another set of projects moving forward.
We do try to balance this all out and in the end I think we have certainly demonstrated a history of doing that being able to that successfully because our project queue has been very economic and its producing the returns that we're benefiting from a cash flow standpoint and our investors are benefiting from a distribution standpoint.
Great thanks.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Question on the Cooper Basin when we were over in Perth last fall sometime Chevron did not sound particularly excited about some of the East Coast LNG opportunities or stuff over in Queensland.
Just curious whether this Cooper Basin entry signals any change to that view? Maybe I misread it.
You know Arjun I wouldn't read too much into them and I think we were talking very broadly back in the fall and as a general rule as a Company we are always on the look out for what I will consider low-cost early entry opportunities and that's really what the Cooper Basin represent.
It's a very new play I cant really indicate how that may in fact turn out for us we just think it was an opportunity to expand our unconventional portfolio and there is an off a lot of work that will need to be done to evaluate the Basin.
But we're hopeful that something could turn out there.
I think you need to think of it as low-cost entry and very early in the evaluation phase.
Got it.
That's helpful Pat.
Thank you.
And just a quick follow-up.
Any update on the timing of Angola LNG start-up and Frade start-up? Thank you very much.
Sure.
So on Angola LNG our expectation is that we will have first LNG here in the second quarter.
Assuming that happens we would expect then to get to full capacity by year-end.
And again assuming that things move as we think they will it's probably going to add to us about 20 000 barrels a day for the full year.
Obviously that would just be a partial year contribution for us.
It's worth about 60 000 barrels a day net to us once fully operational.
From a Frade standpoint we have received approval for a production restart for four wells basically no injection activity.
And that should be here in the second quarter as well.
But it will be ramping up relatively slowly and so the contribution for the year will be relatively modest only about 5 000 barrels a day.
That's great.
Thank you so much.
Okay.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Paul.
Pat just a quick one.
Was there some tax changes in Kazakhstan as related to exports is the first one? And the bigger one which you may be able to answer or not is can you talk a little bit about the sensitivity of your CapEx levels to the dollar  to appreciation in the dollar? I assume an appreciating dollar would bring down your global CapEx.
I wondered if you had a sense for sensitivities.
Thanks.
Right.
So the first answer no the tax change didnt relate to Kazakhstan.
And in terms of our capital program we're really most sensitive to movement from a capital program standpoint to the Australian dollar versus the U.S.
dollar.
And I think we've explained in the past that yes it's been a component.
We have had higher foreign exchange impacts that was part of the Gorgon cost increase up to $52 billion.
About a third of that increase from the original FID number was related to foreign exchange effects so that has impacted us there.
This year it has really been much more modest than that.
And as we said in the past we haven't hedged against the Australian dollar or hedged the Gorgon or Wheatstone activities because usually the Australian dollar is moving with commodity prices and usually that means that we've got a natural hedge.
Yeah I was just kind of wondering because I guess it's the dollar strength and just globally it would tend to imply that the oil price will come down but clearly what you're saying is the main sensitivity by far is the Aussie dollar.
That's exactly right.
Not some  for example the euro wouldn't make a whole lot of difference either way.
Not from a C&amp;E standpoint no.
By the way going back to the first question that Kazakhstan had changed its exports tariffs.
Was I wrong? No Paul.
This is Jeff.
That's correct.
They did increase the export tax but our assets are not affected by the increase  our netbacks are not impacted.
Thank you.
That's perfect.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Doug your line is open.
Could you try pressing your mute button? I'm sorry I had mute on.
Good morning everybody.
Hello Doug.
Hi Pat.
We were looking forward a couple of years just some very substantial step-ups in production but we don't really hear you talk much about portfolio high grading.
Is that something that  you're very happy with the asset base you have now or is it an ongoing effort to pair if you like the bottom 10% in portfolio on a regular basis? And I've got a follow-up please.
I would say that we have a standard practice of pairing components of our portfolio and I'm speaking here about the Upstream pairing components of our portfolio where we find that it's not going to continue to attract the capital that it needs to perform well where we feel others might find more value in that asset.
So we will continue to do that pairing I think about a year-and-a-half ago because I'm a little shy on the timing but it's fourth quarter  last year I think it was 11 the Cook Inlet sale occurred.
So thats just a good example of continued pairing of the portfolio.
I will say on balance were very happy with our portfolio because you see it in our earnings margins and you see it in our cash margins.
So on balance we like the assets that we have but having said that we obviously looked for opportunities to pair if we think the asset has more value to somebody else and it's not going to compete in our portfolio.
[Indiscernible) particularly material how does that result a fair assessment? I think thats true thats fair.
I mean normally you can expect for the enterprise somewhere between $1 billion and $3 billion of asset sales in a given year.
Over the last few years more recently we have had a little bit heavier restructuring occurring in our Downstream segment and so that effort is largely behind us and so you wouldnt expect that continuing size to go forward in 2013.
Great.
My follow-up is really  I guess it's kind of a related issue.
We monitor your if you like cap rate on your Upstream business and for most of the last year it was  I won't give numbers but let's assume it was relatively low and in Q1 we have seen a big jump in your international margins relative to your weighted revenues if you like.
Has something changed there? Was it an absence of maintenance thats more sustainable going forward or to Pauls point has there been any kind of incremental tax changes that have led to that rebound.
I am just trying to understand how sustainable this might be on a go-forward basis because it was quite a significant number relative to what you were expecting? Youre talking about our Upstream  International  international margins.
Upstream international margins right.
I think that it really when you look at 2012 if you look at the whole quarterly pattern for 2012 had a significant deterioration in the third quarter really associated with the downtime at TCO.
And now we have really just moved backup into what would be a more normal pattern.
And that impact of the downturn in the third quarter and the re-ramping backup here in the fourth quarter you can see in last years results.
Okay.
Thats great.
Thank you.
Were back to a more normal position for us.
Thats what I need.
Thank you Thanks Doug.
Our next question comes from Doug Terreson with ISI Group.
Please go ahead with your question.
Congratulations on your results everybody.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Pat I want to say -- if youd provide an update on the situation in Argentina and also the plan or next steps for Kurdistan for 2013 if there are any? Okay well Argentina we continue to work with YPF on the Vaca Muerta discussion.
We're hopeful that that will be able to be concluded.
So far we have drilled about three shale wells on our existing acreage and were encouraged by the results that we have there.
There are some above ground complications I guess I would say that exists in Ecuador as they relate to Ecuador and we need to have satisfactory resolution of those above ground complications before we proceed in a material way on Vaca Muerta.
Yeah.
In fact could you just provide a little color on that point? Okay well basically Ecuador has  You dont have to go that far back.
Just kind of the next steps I guess legally that you guys envision? Yeah.
On the Ecuador  on the overall Ecuador case? No no.
Just the Argentina component.
Im sorry yes.
On Argentina.
Argentina okay.
So right now theres a I guess I would call it a partial freeze of assets in Ecuador.
Sure.
It really hasnt impacted our liquidity in a substantial way.
Weve been able to modify our liquidity provisions and so operationally were in good shape.
There is a freeze underway.
Right.
We are basically petitioning to the Supreme Court in Argentina to have them review that case.
I dont know when the Supreme Court may take it up or if they will take it up.
Were certainly hopeful that they will take it up.
Okay.
We dont believe that there is any merit to having the freeze in place.
And we believe in a country that abides by the rule of law that kind of justice will prevail on this element as well.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
I just wanted to ask a couple of follow-up questions on the exploration success in the quarter.
First of all in Coronado obviously in a pretty good neighborhood there.
Can you talk about any follow-on drilling plans that you have? I believe that you're about to spud a sidetrack or maybe already have spud a sidetrack on the discovery well? Well not really sure what I want to be saying here on Coronado.
I mean we do like the area.
Let's see here So we're still evaluating that  Jason we have spud  a sidetrack on it.
But there's not much more that we really want to say Not right now it's still under evaluation.
Okay that's fine.
And then maybe if I could just shift to the Australian exploration success.
Obviously between drilling results and then the swap that you had with Shell for Carnarvon Basin versus Browse Basin a quite a bit of incremental gas.
Now you've talked about being able to move into a Gorgon feed for a training 4 relatively soon.
But given the gas you've accumulated when do you think you could actually start evaluating a training 3 at Wheatstone? Well I think that is more distant certainly.
I think we need to get trains 1 and 2 up and moving forward.
We're only the second year into that the whole development construction phase here for Wheatstone.
So I think it will come.
It is a hugely prolific area as you know and with both the Kentish Knock and Elfin-1 prospects may just continue to add.
And so the more that full region continues to add to our gas holding then it gives us more flexibility about which particular or gas molecule we send to which particular plant.
So I think you should think of it as after discussions around training 4 for Gorgon.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And any further expansion of Wheatstone.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Please go ahead with you questions.
Hi guys.
Nigeria GTL are we still on track for the year-end start-up? And based on your experience with the GTL I presume that you're probably not interested in a GTL plan in the U.S.
natural gas market? So with regard to EGTL we're in the process here of commissioning the plant.
It's a complex plant and the commissioning activity really go on for the bulk of this year for the rest of this year.
I would say we don't see  GTL will not rank high in terms of our project alternatives for U.S.
natural gas.
In Nigeria Pat you're saying should be continued to be ramping up is that any PSC you said related to Nigerian production or your just natural under 90 rate? No there's no PSC of fracs there.
I'd say there are some cost recovery there Paul.
So investment levels were slightly lower because quarters since we had lower cost to our barrels.
And that's really a timing issue not anything more sustaining than that timing of investments and therefore the timing of cost recovery barrels.
Okay.
Can I just maybe a real quick one for clarification.
On the favorable tax impact for the international E&amp;P do you have an absolute dollar amount in the first quarter? You showed in the chart saying that sequentially it's a benefit of $214 million.
What is the absolute dollar amount in the first quarter? We're not going to disclose that.
Again I think the important point about this is to understand that that was a timing event associated with moving some projects through various project milestones and the taxes that are triggered commensurate with that.
For the overall year you should think about the overall effective rate for the company of being in the low 40%.
All right thank you.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I just wanted to actually get some clarification on the Downstream business.
You guys mentioned a lot of sort of downtime between Pascagoula El Segundo Burnaby South Africa Richmond the OC Refinery that's just all of that.
Could you guys just let us know what was down and whats back up in its full production right now and maybe give us a little bit more detail on the upgrader here which is so youre going to consume more heavy oil at Yeosu? And I just have a follow-up.
Thanks.
Okay.
So I think what we can say we really have said already.
So El Segundo and Pascagoula are back at normal operating level.
Richmond crude unit is just now taking FEED and we will continue to line that out over the next several days so certainly as we progress through the quarter you should expect that to be back to full operation.
The downtime at the smaller refineries is same sort of circumstance has occurred.
So it was just a very heavy first quarter of maintenance period.
You should expect the second quarter will be substantially back fully operational.
We don't go into specific details about which units we have down at which plant for which duration for commercial reasons and I'm sure you can appreciate that.
And then in terms of South Korea here we did have the new VGO FCC up and online with on-spec product during the first quarter.
It's a 53 000 barrel a day plant; it does allow us to process heavier oil.
Okay got it.
Perfect.
And then my follow-up is on the Marcellus.
Is there any chance you give us sort of how production has going for you in the Marcellus last year and for this year.
So you talked about it I guess in your prepared remarks so just trying to understand how much growth youre seeing at that particular asset of yours? So that  I will take that there has been production growth between year-on-year quarters and a lot of thats driven in the U.S.
by both Marcellus and the Midcontinent for us which is respectably the Permian and some of the assets we picked up from Chesapeake later last year.
So Marcellus continued these carry and continue to bring on production.
And we would expect the Permian component to continue to grow during the year.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Asit Sen with Cowen Securities.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Two quick questions one with Brazil and one on Australia.
Just a follow-on on Brazil given Fridays start in second quarter and small contribution in 2013 how should we think about Papa Terra still at 2013 start-up or slips into 2014? Right.
So  we really need to refer you to the operator on this but the operators continues to have a 2013 start-up.
Okay.
And then secondly on Australia a more strategic question in a scenario were floating LNG becomes viable.
How does it impact your thought process and future LNG trains that either Gorgon or Wheatstone any early thoughts on that would be appreciated.
Thank you.
Right.
So I think the floating LNG obviously is a technology that is still yet to be proven and my expectation will be over time that will prove out to be a development design that will be appropriate for certain types of reservoirs.
In terms of Wheatstone and Gorgon were really in a position where we have invested already in the Greenfield and our best opportunity for further expansion obviously will be Brownfield.
Brownfield as you know can be much more economic particularly on the Downstream component of the plant certainly we think may be 15% or so  15% to 20% more capital efficient on the Downstream side.
So we think the Brownfield expansion that we have at Gorgon and Wheatstone and given the resource size that we have at Gorgon and Wheatstone will allow those developments when the time is right to be attractive and competitive.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Allen Good with Morningstar.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc</strong> Good morning.
I just wonder if I get a follow-up on the Marcellus I guess in March you announced you had the $850 million left on the drilling carries there and were running about eight rigs.
At your current level when would you expect to exhaust that drilling carry and when you do would you imagine that you continue almost on with that eight rig drilling program or would you reduce the activity at that time? Right.
So the 850 is the number that we have at this particular point in time.
We are not going to continue to provide interim updates on that.
That really is a function of kind of the drilling program and the rate at which the investments occur.
Our expectation really is and I think we've said this for some time here that our expectation is that the drilling carry works through a period of what I'll call relatively low US gas prices it allows us to understand the reservoir allow for kind of the build up the development plans for that basin and by the time the carry is over it's our expectation that we would be sitting in a stronger US natural gas price environment.
At the same time we've had good success and improving the economics of our drilling program in terms of cost per well the footprint per well and also the environmental impacts per well.
So we're really pleased with the progress that we've been able to make and we're happy to have that carry and we'll continue to prosecute the plan over the next 12 18 24 months just as we have in the last couple of years.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And I wondered if I could just get your update also on the acquisition front obviously you did a deal with last year a couple of years ago the Atlas deal.
What's your view right now as far as evaluations are concerned in the US unconventional space whether it be natural gas and oil and how much opportunities do you see today relative to last year given I guess some of the oil prices and maybe some of the other evaluations of some of these small EMPs that are out there that may fit into your portfolio.
And I think that I don't want to have a generic statement on this because I think it really does depend on the quality of the asset in the unconventional space.
As we have no  as we've seen there's a big difference between sweet spot areas and non sweet spot areas and we continue to always be focused on the value proposition first and that really stems from the quality of the asset and in certain times here we have seen that the high quality assets have been very very expensive and that our entry point was really too late.
In other circumstances we have found that for whatever reason in Chesapeake I think was a good example of this.
There were certain circumstantial above ground issues that were face that we could get in and get a good value for that.
Kitimat in the unconventional space we feel very pleased with having the opportunity to buy into that particular project.
It's a tremendous resource space and we like the overall dynamics between the partners now.
There's only two partners and we've got a good partner in Apache with a strong capability on the Upstream side.
We obviously bring the Downstream side.
So we tend to look at the overall project.
And if we can find value in the overall project we're going forward but it's not  there's not a blanket gee everything's overpriced or gee everything's under priced right now.
It's very resource specific and circumstantial specific.
Inc</strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
Our final question comes from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Please go ahead with your question.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for squeezing me in.
Just a big picture question on your overseas unconventional one of your European competitors recently made some very downbeat comments on shale development outside North America.
You guys have been about as active as everyone in the cumulating acreage.
I would just like to get your latest thoughts on that? Right.
Pavel I think we have said that I know George has said that this is a long-term development opportunity and we have always had the expectation that it would take several years to understand what this play could develop into.
You just don't have the same infrastructure in these European countries as you have in the US.
You don't have the same knowledge of the reservoir.
In the US of course the US have been drilled for decades and decades and there was an awful lot of reservoir knowledge that is not the case in Europe.
In the US we have a lot of service providers and a lot of infrastructure.
In Europe that is not the case.
We have well established fiscal and political regimes here.
As it relates to hydrocarbons that's not always the case in Europe.
And so there are a number of differences between the US environment and the European environment and so we have always thought that this would be a longer term development opportunity.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Just a quick one on Kitimat.
Is it still your sense that you will only move forward with the project if you can get crude linked off take? Our belief is that selling Kitimat gas into an Asian market will require I guess I would say economic provisioning that will underpin the asset investment.
And in our belief the best mechanism for doing that is the oil linked contract.
So we believe that that will continue to be the basis that will be needed to spur on the investment for new LNG developments like Kitimat.
Inc.</strong> All right.
I appreciate it guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
I am showing one follow-up from Paul Cheng with Barclays Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hey Pat two quick one actually.
One in page 10 of your presentation you show in the U.S.
Downstream a negative bar of $190 million and youre saying that primarily relate to the downtime.
Is that just the we take also thats including your estimate of the opportunity cost.
And if you are not into the opportunity cost do you have a rough estimate that how big that may be? No I mean this is -- I mean theres an analytical derivation to get to the volume bar and what were really trying to say there is that that compared to last quarter and the volumes that we had running through the equipment and the margins that were achieved back then relative to this quarter and the margins achieved this year we break that up between the volume and margin analysis here various analysis.
And thats really just trying to say that the primary driver for poor U.S.
Downstream earnings really had to do with having so much of our equipment down Pascagoula Richmond El Segundo.
So thats the best estimated opportunity cost to you? No.
Thats fine.
I'll just follow-up with Jeff later on.
A final one at the end of the first quarter from an inventory level do you roughly balance at a normal level or that youre under-levered or over-levered and do you have any under-lift or over-lift in the first quarter also? Were slightly over lifted but it's immaterial.
It's less than half a percent in the first quarter.
How about at the end of the quarter.
Are you roughly balanced? Well that is the end of the quarter.
That is the end.
Oh that is the end.
How about in the first quarter did you have any over-lift or under-lift at all? Well like I said we were slightly over lifted but less than a half a percent.
So it's not material to our results.
Okay.
Thank you.
Im not showing any other questions.
Thank you.
Okay.
Then Id like to thank everybody for your participation here today especially for the folks who asked the questions.
With that again Ill reiterate my appreciation for your interest in the company and I wish you well for the day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron's first quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Sean and Ill be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Ill now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Hey thank you Sean.
Welcome to Chevrons second quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today is George Kirkland Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Upstream and Gas and Jeff Gustavson General Manager for Investor Relations.
We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevrons website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement shown on slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The company's second quarter earnings were $5.4 billion or $2.77 per diluted share.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was about 16%.
Our debt ratio at the end of June was approximately 12%.
In the second quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares and in the third quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.
Turning to slide 4 cash generated from operations was $8.5 billion during the second quarter and $14.2 billion year to date.
On last quarters call I noted adverse working capital effects which reduced first quarter cash generation.
In the second quarter we saw some but not complete reversal of these effects.
We expect further working capital release as remainder of the year unfolds.
In June the company executed a $6 billion bond offering taking advantage of historically low borrowing costs.
Capital and exploratory expenditures were $8.6 billion during the second quarter and $16.8 billion year to date.
The year to date amount includes incremental resource acquisition outlays associated with Kitimat in Canada Cooper Basin in Australia and Kurdistan.
George will speak to the value drivers behind these additions a little later.
At quarter end our cash balances exceeded $22 billion giving us a net cash position of approximately $2 billion.
As we indicated to you in March and as you saw in the first quarter the company is moving toward a more traditional net debt structure.
Jeff will now take us through the quarterly comparison.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to slide five I'll compare results of the second quarter 2013 with the first quarter 2013.
As a reminder our earnings release compares second quarter 2013 with the same quarter a year ago.
Second quarter earnings were $5.4 billion about $800 million lower than first quarter results.
Upstream earnings were down $967 million reflecting lower liquids realizations and higher operating expenses associated with increase maintenance activities partly offset by a favorable swing in foreign currency effects.
Downstream results increased $65 million between quarters.
The increase was driven by higher downstream volumes following heavy maintenance during the prior quarter which was partially offset by an increase in operating expenses in lower chemical earnings.
The variance in the other bar largely reflects favorable corporate tax items during the quarter.
On slide six our U.S.
Upstream earnings for the second quarter were $49 million lower than first quarter's results.
Lower realizations decreased earnings by $25 million driven by decline in crude oil prices partially offset by an increase in natural gas prices.
Higher production volumes primarily from our San Joaquin Valley California and Delaware Basin New Mexico operations increased earnings by $40million.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including higher operating expenses related to maintenance and other production related activities as well as slightly higher exploration expenses.
Turning to slide seven International Upstream earnings were $918 million lower than the first quarter.
Realizations decreased earnings by $550 million average liquids unit realizations declined by 8% in line with the decrease in average current spot prices between quarters.
The timing of lifting in Kazakhstan and across multiple other countries decrease earnings by $60 million higher operating expenses due to increase maintenance activities in the startup of the LNG plant in Angola decrease earnings by $195 million between periods.
A favorable swing in foreign currency effects improved earnings by about $105 million.
The second quarter had a gain of about $275 million compared to a gain of about $170 million in the first quarter.
The other bar includes the absence of favorable tax effects during the first quarter and higher exploration expenses.
Slide eight; summarizes the quarterly change in Chevrons worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production decrease 63 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Lower prices increase volumes under production sharing in variable royalty contracts during the second quarter by about 5 000 barrels per day.
Plan turnaround activities in Kazakhstan and Australia have the largest impact reducing production by 45 000 barrels per day.
The base business in other bar includes normal fuel declines in lower natural gas demand primarily in Thailand.
Turning to slide nine U.S.
Downstream earnings were essentially flat between periods.
Higher volumes increased earnings by $245 million at several refineries came back on line during the second quarter following a particularly heavy maintenance period during the first quarter.
Stronger margins increased earnings by $50 million due to lower crude prices as well as tighter product inventories operating expenses increased by $180 million largely due to higher fuel consumption transportation and environmental related expenses.
Lower chemicals results reduced earnings by $110 million primarily due to lower ethylene margins and reduced volumes on planned and unplanned downtime at two separate plans.
On slide 10 International Downstream earnings improved by $63 million between quarters.
Higher volume increased earnings by $80 million primarily on the absence of maintenance activities at the Cap Town South Africa and Burnaby Canada refineries.
Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $50 million reflecting higher fuel usage and employee cost.
The other bar includes a number of unrelated items including an unfavorable swing in foreign exchange impacts and weaker refining margins partially offset by positive inventory evaluation effects driven by following prices during the second quarter.
Slide 11 covers all other.
Second quarter net charges were $350 million compared to $439 million in the first quarter a decrease of $89 million between periods.
Favorable corporate tax items resulted in $145 million benefit to earnings while corporate charges were $56 million higher this quarter.
In part higher corporate charges reflected an asset impairment as noted in our interim update.
Year-to-date net charges in the All Other segment were 789 million at the end of the second quarter.
We believe our quarterly guidance range of $400 million to $500 million for the All Other segment is still appropriate going forward.
George is now going to provide an update on our upstream operations.
George?  Thank you Jeff and good morning.
To begin Id like to note the progress of our Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot projects for the Gulf of Mexico.
This photo shows the hulls of both platforms at the yard in Ingleside Texas.
The topside modules and hulls of the projects are currently being integrated.
Since this photo was taken additional modules were set on top of the Big Foot which is pictured on the left.
The Jack/St.
Malo towed to its location is scheduled for year end.
Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot remain on schedule for 2014 startup and these are important contributors to our 2017 production target supporting our profitable growth.
Now lets take a look at our financial performance on slide 13.
Our 2013 year-to-date upstream earnings margin was $23.88 per barrel.
Based on first half results for the peer group we continue to lead the competition by a considerable margin.
We are almost $6.50 per barrel ahead of our nearest competitor.
We have now held this top position for 14 consecutive quarters.
This result flows from the quality of our investment decisions the strength of our portfolio and the strong execution performance of our base business and projects.
Im also very pleased with our upstream return on capital employed which is almost 20%.
I expect this to rank at the top of our peer group.
Now Ill cover our 2013 production on slide 14.
Production in the first half of the year averaged 2.61 million barrels a day at an average year-to-date Brent price of $107.50 per barrel.
The first half results are near our forecast giving our planned turnaround and maintenance activity.
We anticipate an increase in production in the second half of the year.
Our 2013 production guidance remains unchanged at 2.65 million barrels a day at an average Brent price of $112 per barrel.
Im pleased that Angola LNG has achieved startup and has now loaded two cargoes to date with another preparing to load.
This significant milestone is the result of the hard work of many individuals in Angola and around the world.
For the second half of the year we anticipate Angola LNG will be ramping up and will be a large contributor to our production.
We plan to load at least 13 cargoes by year end.
Remember at peak rates ALNG should contribute about 60 000 barrels per day to our production.
We will have additional production rampups from our other major capital projects including Usan and Tahiti 2.
We restarted Frade in Brazil at the end of April and currently have 3 production wells online.
As seen in the graph production growth in the second half also comes from our base operations.
This includes additional cost recovery from production sharing contracts additional production out of the Marcellus and an increased drilling activity in the Permian.
These increases are partially offset by the planned turnarounds.
Overall in 2013 we expect to have a similar level of turnaround activity as we had in 2012 and relatively heavy for both these years.
We continue to have confidence in meeting our 2017 growth target as we bring on new projects and other key developments.
I would like now to update you on the status of a few key projects.
Turn to slide 15.
Gorgon is now almost 67% complete.
Barrow Island construction has achieved major milestones including the installation of the second gas turbine generation for Train 1.
The third of five generators for the site will arrive later this year.
Seven major process modules are on their foundations and now 11 of the 51 modules are on Barrow Island.
The remaining 10 Train 1 modules are schedule for delivery by year end.
We also recently completed the installation of the 20-inch domestic gas pipeline.
The Gorgon team has resolved the logistic challenges they faced earlier additional lay down areas on Barrow Island were established and material handling has significantly improved.
Increase transportation capacity has allowed the project to exceed material delivery targets.
Construction productivity has improved in some key areas and our team is focused on increasing productivity across the Broad for Barrow Island construction.
Gorgon module fabrication is progressing and we are managing it closely.
We also continue to carefully monitor labor costs and weather impacts.
In the Upstream the first five sea -- subsea wellheads were set.
We have finished the lower completion of all the Gorgon wells and 50% of the [Jens Iago] wells.
As one of our key legacy assets with over 200 000 barrels a day of production net Chevron share Gorgon will be a major contributor to our future financial performance.
We have posted several updated photos of progress made at both Gorgon and Wheatstone on our Investor website located at chevron.com and Ill encourage you to go there and look them.
Next I will review progress on some of our other key developments.
Wheatstone made significant progress in 2013 with the team focused onsite infrastructure and upstream fabrication.
We now have over 2 200 people onsite at Onslow.
The offshore platform fabrication began in South Korea with erection of the seller deck.
Offshore dragging began for the pipeline.
The first phase of the construction village has been completed and the new runway at Onslow airport is nearing completion.
The remaining activities for 2013 focused on site work to prepare for module deliveries in 2014.
Wheatstone remains on target for a late 2016 startup.
Kitimat marked an important milestone on July 1<sup>st</sup> with the transfer of operatorship for LNG plant in the Pacific Trail Pipeline development to Chevron.
Front-end engineering is progressing on plan.
Early earthworks continue at the LNG plant site were a total of 6.5 million cubic yards of earth and rock have to move.
LNG marketing activities and engagement with potential foundation customers are underway.
We are focusing on Asian markets and aimed to have 60% to 70% of the LNG volumes under long-term commitment prior to a final investment decision.
In mid-July we entered into an arrangement with YPF to facilitate the development of a section of the Vaca Muerta Shale Basin which has a significant potential for both liquids and gas production.
This initial program includes 100 wells in a Pacific portion of 96 000 acre development area.
This development provides a new opportunity that we believe will be competitive with other projects in our portfolio.
Above ground risk have largely been mitigated through government decrease and the financial structure all in all we are pleased with the deal and the opportunity to participate in the development of this world-class resource.
The projects that Ive just been reviewed provide legacy growth and production and cash flow.
Now Ill provide an update on our exploration activities.
Please turn to slide 17.
We have another active year of exploration where we all plan to invest over $3 billion.
We're making great progress in our key focus areas of the Gulf of Mexico West Africa Australia and North America unconventionals.
Outside of those areas we have a mixture of conventional and unconventional exploration enhanced by key acreage additions.
We have drilled or currently drilling 10 of our 14 plant impact wells for 2013 including the second well in the Kurdistan region of Iraq which spud on Wednesday.
Now I will highlight a few areas of new activity for 2013.
We are maintaining our emphasis on the Permian portfolio and we are increasing drilling activity in exploration appraisal and development.
Weve enhanced our position in the liquid rich Delaware basin and are now the largely leaseholder with significant potential in undeveloped acreage.
We drilled our first two wells in the Utica in Ohio and are encouraged by the preliminary results and we will provide more details on this later this year.
Weve added another block in Kurdistan -- in the Kurdistan region of Iraq and our plan is to complete and begin testing two wells this year.
Our Australian portfolio has increased with the addition of acreage in the Cooper Basin tight gas [point].
Exploration and appraisal wells are in progress.
Weve also acquired new acreage in China Brazil the US Gulf of Mexico and Morocco.
Finally we just announced an agreement for the acquisition of additional acreage in the liquids rich region of the Kaybob Duvernay basin.
This complements our existing acreage position where we had drilled 10 of our 13 well program.
Results for these stage fracs are positive with significant condensate yields.
These portfolio additions demonstrate how we continue to selectively capture future growth opportunities remaining focused on value adding assets that can sustain our strong financial performance.
Now Ill turn it back to Pat.
Turning to slide 18 George just provided an update on recent upstream activity three milestones were met in the quarter in our downstream business.
First the Richmond refinery successfully restarted.
By quarter end the refinery was fully operational and running at planned utilization rate.
Second GS Caltexs Yeosu refinery began commercial operation of the heavy oil upgrading unit which now makes Yeosu one of the largest heavy oil upgraders in South Korea.
This unit came online three months ahead of schedule.
Third our chemical joint venture Chevron Phillips Company announced plans to expand its ethylene production at its Sweeny Complex in Texas.
I will close by highlighting our continued strong performance on total shareholder return as shown on this slide.
We continue to lead the peer group by a significant margin which shows we are executing well against the right strategies.
I would also like to point out the balanced manner in which our returns were achieved.
We know the importance of not only providing returns via a competitive and growing dividend but also from disciplined reinvestments in our business to generate future value.
We are fully committed to delivering disciplined growth and shareholder value and our objective is to continue to lead the peer group on total shareholder returns for a long time to come.
We appreciate you listening in this morning and your interest in the company.
And now I would like to open the microphones for questions.
We do have a full queue so please limit yourself to one question and a single follow-up if necessary.
We will do our best to see that we get all your questions answered.
Sean please open up the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Paul Sankey of Deutsche Bank.
On the recent acquisition commitments in Argentina it was at a time when your CapEx is very elevated and additionally I think there has been some legal issues around can you just underline for us why you are making a move like that at a time as I said when your CapEx is still elevated and (inaudible) the legal complexity that you probably really dont need? Well Paul it always starts back at whats the opportunity set out there and how does it compete in the future wed like the opportunity from a technical point of view.
When you look at it technically this opportunity much of the shale is in 1000 foot range of thickness.
So its very attractive that way.
Weve been in Argentina a long period of time.
So we understand I think Argentina quite well.
So we feel comfortable that way.
And we always have within our portfolio some ability to spend our money in different ways.
We have the ability because of our base business programs that we can move some moneys around.
I go back the other point would be that opportunities are there when they are available and this one is available.
On the legal side I would start off and say first-off we really dont believe there is any legitimate legal claim against us.
So thats -- we're pretty confident about that.
We think were in a good position there.
Back home the development itself we see this very much as a stage development over a long period of time.
The initial work is 100 wells and depending upon that success we will move forward from there.
We also see Argentina as a country thats got a large resource potential.
We really believe that over the long period of time they can move from an importer potentially an exporter accrued.
And once again the time for the opportunity was now.
Okay.
So its.
Go ahead.
So I was just going to follow-on with -- on reference your sales reference this is a high-intensity period of CapEx with the two Australian LNG projects above all simultaneously in your Q.
Can you talk about your longer term CapEx and the potential to bring that down with a view to generating more free cash flow or are you intending to push through to try and grow the company beyond the existing 3.3 million barrel equivalent target that you have for 2017? Thanks.
First Paul weve got to disconnect those two.
They are not necessarily they are totally connected.
At our March meeting when we met in New York we told people that we see our growth beyond 3.3.
We did not disclose what their growth would be.
Its a little premature to go there but we do see growth beyond that.
One of the points that we talked about it that time was the growth that we saw that would be coming from a future growth project and the low pressure management project in Tengiz.
When we originally committed to our 3.3 about 80 000 barrels a day of our growth to 2017 was related to the Tengiz expansion.
And that project is not going to be on line in 2017.
So it contributes to significant growth.
And remember the Tengiz project in total will add -- the expansion will add about 130 000 to 140 000 barrels a day of net production for Chevron.
So we do see growth beyond 2017.
But likewise we always see some projects that tend to move a little bit to the right move a little bit later.
So we take that money and invest it in other opportunities because we have a very strong portfolio.
I would tell you as we get Gorgon and Wheatstone completed those investments we do not have anything as large in our portfolio on a capital expenditure basis as large as those.
So from that perspective we will see some decline in our capital program in a relative sense.
But remember were also going to be a lot bigger in the barrel side.
We will have a lot more barrels to our cash flows.
Our cash flows will be high.
We got very strong margins.
So weve got that combination to go forward.
So its a combination of things that move around but remember portfolio lot of barrels lot of barrel growth 25% growth.
Were looking at holding our margins our margins which are industry leading we think we will hold them.
So were going to have cash flow growth and a flattening and I would call it more a flattening of a capital program going forward.
Thanks George and thanks all of you thanks also for taking the time to come on the call.
Thanks Paul.
Okay next one?  Our next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning everybody and George thanks for the update on the upstream projects and clear on the free cash flow.
My first question is on the Permian.
Now there has clearly been a lot of exciting industry results you entered the Cimarex joint venture.
I know youre building a technology center there.
I mean can you quantify at all for us the activity ramp or potential organic growth there in the basin and how Chevron is building or expanding its Permian capabilities to run a bigger organization? And I have a follow up.
Maybe Ill start back with what we said in March of this year.
We expect to drill over 300 wells in the Permian Basin in the Midland Basin itself we see growth in the Delaware Basin.
Remember we added the Chesapeake acreage in New Mexico to acreage wed already had there.
This recent Cimarex deal in the Permian is really is bringing together a checkerboard of acreage of ours and Cimarex.
Why do we do that? Well we do that to increase efficiency and effectiveness of the dollars we spend.
We reduce geographic acreage loss if you will.
We can drill longer laterals so its just a much more efficient way to develop that acreage.
As we said in March we are going to see our rig count grow considerably over this period.
I dont think weve done anything post-March that doesnt fit with the plans that we showed at the March meeting.
Our plans are pretty consistent in that growth profile both in acreage and in barrels.
We do expect that our net production to grow towards in the Permian Basin into that 200 000 barrels.
But I mean just any color <br>So -- go ahead.
Yeah I didnt know there was any color on the technology center that youre building or people addition or just what investments you are making to build an infrastructure that would support more significant organic growth there.
We will.
We have committed to a tech center there.
We have -- we are starting a building a significant building project there [harness] project.
Weve purchased land and moving forward we are building that.
And I would also tell you remember weve got a big support function for that unit also out of Houston.
So were -- I think were in good shape on what we have in Midland and we have a strong commitment we have lots of acreage and Midland and the Permian Basin and the Delaware Basin are long-term assets for us.
But I dont really have anything thats new beyond what we presented in March.
Thats fair.
And if I could a second on just quickly on Gorgon.
Can you provide any update on cost trends or color since your guidance earlier in the year or when or what key milestones will trigger any cost update there? Well I would tell you were always looking at the cost and watching the cost.
We review the project once every month from my level and John Watson we both take a -- have a project review once a month.
We look at progress we look at costs we look at issues we look at mitigations that our project team are putting in place.
And as you know a big project like this there is always issues that people are solving problems.
And our people are very good at that.
I mentioned today that we really think we have solved the issue around the logistics; that was important for us.
We are not going to know a lot more on costs till we get really much further in.
we dont see any major disconnects at this point.
We see as an example the first half of the year exchange rates are really pretty close to what we assumed in our plan.
Its -- the first part of the year the rates were higher than parity the second quarter they were down but for the year they are pretty close.
And now were seeing a shift in exchange rates that are -- in our -- positive for us with exchange rates coming down and we are in a period where we got major expenditures in Australia.
Weve got a lot of moving parts there so we can always tell where we've been a lot better than where everything is going and any issues once again we try to mitigate those as they go.
But I dont see anything major on the costs side.
Its still back to productivity and Ill emphasize its critical to get productivity on Barrow Island and its important for us to have good weather.
Weather is an extremely important part of our success there and were in the good part of the year right now between now and December we are outside of major weather impacts.
So were in a period that we get to December.
We will know and offer lot more.
We are 67% now and every time you get little bit closer towards 100% you can do a lot better forecasting.
Great.
Always helpful George.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thanks Evan.
Next caller.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thank you.
My thanks for the E&amp;P update as well.
Just a follow-up question on Kitimat where you have now had sometime to look at the project? And I know the two pieces our progressing the feed and then I think you mentioned you want to get 60% 70% of the deal sold to long-term customers? On that later point you now have Exxon with the big project in the area.
I think Shells get one.
Im sure you dont want to give a bunch of specifics though wed certainly welcome them? But can you at all talk about how its going in terms of marketing this.
I know there is a question us to whether theyre might be some linkage to Henry Hub? How are you feeling about Kitimat and it position and your ability to get that gas sold? Thank you.
Well first off Id say I think we have a considerable time lead versus any of the other developments in the BC region.
This project has permits and plays for export.
It has approval and permits in place for the site.
Weve got most of the agreements for the pipeline route with the First Nations.
Matter of fact I think 15 or 16 of the groups of First Nation have already agreed.
So I think we are in quite lead on the early part of a project.
Weve also done a feed one Train and we are now moved into a two Train feed to build two Trains there weve been involved in that.
So we do have more work on feed but we are moving quite well on the feed work.
So well go back once again we are in a great competitive spot on schedule.
That should help us a lot in dealing with those that want to buy gas that puts our project in many ways ahead of others so for the buyers that need gas sooner in a very positive position.
We do not plan to have Henry Hub linkage.
We expect the Henry Hub equivalent value will come through some equity sell-down.
We do plan to have a partner as buyers we are going to offer volumes some volumes and interest in the plant as a combination.
We think thats a big advantage.
We frankly think thats better than Henry Hub pricing.
Henry Hub like any index has variability variability means it goes up or it can go down and we believe that we can get the same or a better situation for a buyer through their participation equity participation in the Kitimat project.
We can do that because the two partners in us and Apache each hold 50%.
We hold very strong working interest in the plant and in the resources.
So we have that ability to move that way.
So our goal is of course to maintain advantage first mover advantage in that.
But at the same time move the project at the right speed having done all the appropriate technical work.
And once again having all the commercial work done to gets us to 60% to 70% position with regard to sales.
Weve had some initial discussions with Asian buyers.
We will not disclose the ones that were talking with at this time.
But we are moving that forward.
Thats just very darn helpful.
Just a very quick follow up in terms of the appropriate speed weve always thought that this is more likely to be a 2014 FID versus 13 which I think at one point had been talked about -- I dont know if you can comment on that.
I wouldnt disagree that it's more likely to be a 2014 FID.
Once again weve got to have all the right work done and what's critical for us and were not progressing the project through FID until we have these agreements at least at a HOA level for 60% to 70% that will take us into 2014 to get those completed.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Yes thanks very much for all of the information this morning.
Just coming to the offshore I mean it feels as if with a loss position in the Permian and some of the LNG projects that you have the write on offshore regrets and subsea costs might mean a shift in the portfolio.
So I guess two questions one is how are you mitigating the rise what are you views on those offshore costs? And how much flexibility do you have to sort of shift capital around to avoid that inflation? Well everything depends upon the economics of the projects and our portfolio which is nice and large we can move monies around.
I will you each one of these investments look a little bit different.
If you look at a deepwater development we end up with large wells on production sands high production rates and because of that huge upfront cash flows these projects come in they have relatively high DD&amp;A rate would you look at their operating expense they are extremely low and they have very strong margins.
And its back to economics.
So now I will tell that the cost structure in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico post Macondo is higher.
We have seen a 20% to 25% rise in the cost of wells.
I will tell you were trying to offset that in many other ways.
Technology is one way.
If you remember at our presentation in March this year and more recent press release of just around -- I think also in the March period where we talked about the performance of our multi-zone the single -- our multi-frac single trip frac pack we had great success with that.
It saved us anywhere from 20 to 50 days in the completion operations of our deepwater Lower Tertiary wells.
This multi-zone frac pack is a huge benefit for us in the cost side and our original -- in our initial test of the well after that we had very high rates.
So I want to take you back this back to what do we think we can get on value proposition weve got the people to do the work in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
We had the oil capability also onshore.
And we will make choices on that but it comes heavily back to the technical quality of the asset.
I mean now that some people have deferred projects but at the moment the rig rates in subsea are they expensive enough given technology for you to do the same is that what I am hearing? Our view of Jack/St.
Malo today on economic basis is stronger than when we went to FID.
Our project view has improved as we learn more and more particularly about the Lower Tertiary and our ability to change the recovery rates in the Lower Tertiary we see this as a better and better opportunity.
Remember Jack/St.
Malo we talked only of about a $500 million barrel tight recovery for those two fields and that was on 8% to 10% recovery rate.
Were focusing on those technologies that can change that recovery rate and potentially raise it up to over 20%.
And when you have the infrastructure in place already that additional production and additional recovery is frankly very economic.
Thank you very much.
But each one of them is a decision into itself.
We have to have to confidence in how much we are going to produce and we have to also have confidence -- when we reach up there we do have confidence in how much we will spend to get that return.
Very clear.
Thanks George.
Okay and thank you.
Next caller? Our next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning George.
Good morning.
Question for you George.
I want to ask you about portfolio capital intensity and I guess what Im really trying to understand is when you set the original target for 2017 the CapEx numbers have been creeping higher but there is lot of stuff coming into the portfolio and the margin anyway that wasnt in the original plan for example the Permian Basin.
So Im trying to understand our things -- good thing for the right as you mentioned in your prepared remarks and the spending basically making up the difference and maybe just in order of magnitude youre spending about 20% more than I guess your largest peer on a per barrel basis Im just curious if you can just give us some flavors as to that whether or not you think that as a sustainable level of spend? Well let me go back and say there are things that we had talked about and I gave the example of the future growth the expansion in Tengiz as moving to the right.
When I move to the right when I moved later it did move capital that way also.
We look at these portfolio additions on the strength of them.
And we dont only think about our investment ratios in per barrel basis.
We are influenced heavily by the cash flow that these barrels give us.
Thats back to -- I dont believe we would be investing for this much growth if we did not have the strength of portfolio to generate the cash.
Our earnings per barrel and our cash flow per barrel that we are generating allows us on a cash flow basis to actually be investing much lower than many of our competitors.
So we are investing on a cash basis less than most.
Its heavily influenced of course by the quality and the amount of cash that were generating from these barrels.
I do believe that youre going to see our capital investment rate flatten with time.
And its really a function of the LNG projects that were in today.
Weve got Gorgon and Wheatstone which are very large.
They build huge infrastructure and capacity for the future.
They have very flat long lives.
So were building for them with them.
I always tell people remember when Gorgon and Wheatstone together are on thats over 400 000 barrels net per day for Chevron.
Those are company side assets.
Maybe I could ask my follow up with Pat is a related question.
Pat you obviously hold a lot of caps in balance sheet thats not generating earnings .What is your expectations for that trend as a proportion of capital rise or fall over the next several years non-producing capital I mean when you get there.
Thank you.
Right.
I think consistent with where George was going I mean you are absolutely right.
We are sustaining a relatively high proportion of pre-productive capital we call it at the present time.
You would expect that rate to be sustained high until you get projects like Gorgon and Wheatstone coming on line.
Both of those two projects combined represent about $45 billion Chevron share of spending over this seven-year period of time if you look at the construction period for both projects.
So thats obviously a significant component and until you get those projects online were going to have relatively high preproductive capital.
Once those projects become online then of course we anticipate that that proportionality will decline.
Ed Id just like to make one additional addition to that.
Id take you back to the ROCE we have in our upstream segment.
Yes we do have a large capital employed that is not yet returning revenues and earnings.
But even with that you look at the return on the capital employed in total we are leading in our segment.
So that tells you where weve invested and the performance of that portfolio is very strong.
So its back to our ability to invest is driven heavily by the quality of the existing portfolio to generate cash flow where we can invest in these large growth projects which are going to give us a 25% volume growth between now and 2017.
Thanks for your answers folks.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng of Barclays Capital.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hey guys good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
George maybe a little bit of this from a strategic standpoint that we are looking at Kitimat in order for this to become a really great project you probably look beyond just Train 1 or 2 I dont know whether that you really have sufficient gas resource up there yourself.
So logistically then how share volume you look at here so you will be just essentially saying okay I have gas resource for the first two train and get it going and then subsequently I would be just be the owner of the train and not necessarily to be the owner of the natural gas and just process other peoples gas or that you actually think that is important for you guys to be fully integrated? Well the second point first I think it is very important to be fully integrated and to have the resource.
Our view is being tempered at this point in time because we havent been in the project as long as Apache has.
But I take you back to the view that Apache is on the press with and what they view Liard and Horn River their view of Liard alone is approximately 50 Tcf of gas.
So if you take 50 Tcf of gas and you take Horn River and Liard youve got something greater than that.
That is much more gas than is needed for a two train plant.
A two train plant is more likely to be in the 15T of gas required.
Bottom line we are not short of gas at all in the Kitimat development.
Our issue is to get foundation customers and the foundation project in place and then find a way to -- the next step is to look at the expansions.
I dont want to spend a lot of time on the expansions yet until we get -- we really get past having the first 2 trains once again sold from a market point of view and then get them post FID.
Right.
But I think I guess my question is that in the event if that those huge numbers that talked by Apache did not materialize and end up to be smaller you still wont willing that you have to integrate model that including the ownership in the resource? Yeah I think we need that -- to have surety of the supply to feed the plant.
So were quite confident at this point for the first two trains.
Weve done enough work that are confidence is high that there is a large volume of gas there.
We have lots of appraisal work that will be done in Liard to confirm those volumes as we go forward.
But I will tell you all my engagement with our partner is quite confident in the quality of this resource.
Second one George can you give somewhat idea that the base on your drilling result and how is the [metric] whether its Brent oil condensate or NGL whats our split we are talking about in the Permian Basin that youre drilling right now as well as Utica? I can give you a lot more on what were seeing in the Permian Basin.
Were focusing on the portion of the basin that we see greater than 50% liquids and I say 50% liquids looking at really the oil and condensate side LNGs pardon me -- LPG is not what Im speaking of.
So its really -- its over 50% OEG in liquid with oil and condensate side.
Thats why we like it so much that that really carries a lot of value.
In the Utica Im not really prepared to give you those numbers I would just simply take you back to what I said in my prepared comments for today that we are pleased with what we see.
Weve had about 30 days of production test production run actually on the first two wells.
Its a little early to speak on that and we should be prepared in a little bit later in the third quarter to give a little bit more information on the Utica.
But flexes just a little bit early I would also tell you probably same time we would be prepared to speak a little bit more about the Duvernay in Canada because it is once again also a liquid play.
And weve just closed this -- closed on this additional 67 000 acres up in the Duvernay.
I would tell you also maybe as the general comment what we try to do every quarter is to have a big anchor position like in the Permian Basin and then build additional acreage around it before we disclose all our results.
It only make sense for us not to get our disclosures out in front of where were trying to move from a commercial point of view.
So we feel very good what we are in the Permian Basin.
And my expectation is that we have other opportunities like Cimarex we will make those happen to.
But we like very much to get a nice position build that position and its particularly nice to build that position after you truly understand the subsurface.
So you understand how the rocks are and really how much of the volume is going to be oil or gas.
George is Permian is a primary frac oil or just primary condensate for you? The Permian is primarily oil.
Frac oil for you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you Paul.
Light oil.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel with Macquarie.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yeah.
Thank you.
I just want to follow up on LNG marketing which has been raised by few others.
When you think about putting Kitimat into the marketplace how do you contrast that with the potential for brownfield expansions at your Australian projects.
How do you prioritize getting one into the market versus the other? And then just related to that whats you sense of urgency in getting volumes into the market right now given that there are projects moving forward pretty quickly in both East Africa and on the U.S.
Golf Coast? Lot of question there Jason Ill try to hit those.
Ill start of with contrasting maybe our Gorgon trains for versus what we have at Kitimat.
First difference is scale and to the buyer we have a bigger offering of volume.
We have 11 million tons with two trains and we are doing the joint marketing.
So we have 11 million tons there on offer that we will be available and once again we want to have 60% to 70% and we would be willing very much to move up to the 80% at the time of start up.
In the case of Gorgon train for its 5.2 million ton per annum additional train the difference there is also the gas coming out of Gorgon is marketed by each of the partners.
We -- we're remarketing about 47% of the gas in Exxon Mobil and Shell each have about 25%.
So its a much smaller volume to move for us the plus for Gorgon is youre brown -- youre brownfield.
So youve got an advantage on the plant side depending upon on where we are going in Asia there is no difference in transportation from in distance and cost from going to Kitimat or coming from Australia.
It actually depending on where youre going in if its in North Asia there may be a slight advantage for Kitimat.
So it could be positive for us there but volumetrically its positive.
We do think from a development cost that -- the development cost at Kitimat on the upstream may end up being less than in the case of Gorgon.
Gorgon has the benefit of the brownfield on the plant side.
We have we think more control on the Kitimat project because of the partnership.
We have 50% there and I think a very aligned partner and we are jointly selling the gas that I mentioned.
In the case of Gorgon Train 4 three companies are selling the gas.
So there is a different alignment there.
Were happy to see both of them move.
They are a little bit of a horserace between them at this point in our own shop.
East Africa I didnt mention and I think people here reminded me I actually see East Africa behind both of these projects.
I dont believe East Africa from my perspective yet has an operator thats in place or a unit thats been created to move that project forward.
So I think we do have a timing advantage on both of those projects to first gas.
Gorgon we know weve got all the gas Kitimat were confident of weve got all the gas for two trains.
So I think we have a little bit of an advantage there.
And we do know our fiscal regime and regulatory regime in both the locations in which we operate very clearly.
Okay thank you Jason.
Next question? I think we have time for a couple more questions.
Okay.
Our next question is all set from Iain Reid with Jefferies.
Please go ahead with your question.
Yeah hi there.
Pat could I ask you a question actually about the share buyback.
You said earlier youre moving into more of a kind of net debt position going forward.
Youre obviously spending both on CapEx and dividend significantly more than youre generating cash flow at the moment and the buyback is kind of accelerating that process into net debt.
What sort of point do you think the buyback has done its job in terms of that process? Have you got a kind of target level of gearing which you are aiming for? And when can we think about you perhaps scaling this back over the next several quarters? Thanks.
Its a good question.
I think Ive explained before how we look at share buybacks and it really is we try to take a medium-term point of view we take a look at whats happening to commodity prices we look at what our opportunity for reinvestment in the business in we look at obviously a growing dividend profile that we want to make sure comes right off the top.
We want to maintain flexibility in our financial structure and after weve done that sort of equation if there are funds left over thats when we fall into the share repurchase category.
We do want to take -- we have tried to take a more medium term point of view here and not be in and out of the market just depending upon instantaneous circumstances in a given quarter.
We do not have a targeted leverage ratio for the corporation.
We look at the leverage ratio really as being an outcome of these other decisions that we have made.
And we have tremendous additional leverage capacity as you well know.
Were sitting here today with a 12% debt ratio; we have a long way to go before being overlevered becomes one of our problems.
So I think you can consider when you look out and forecast your own commodity prices and take a look at the development stream that weve got available to us and you look at our past practice on dividend streams you can put together a cash flow model.
We have a long way to go before net debt becomes a challenge for us.
Okay thanks for that.
And can I just ask one very quick question for George? On Brazil George you talked about Frade coming gradually back on stream.
But in that kind of growth profile youre showing for the second half of the year is Papa Terra in that and also I wonder if you could also comment on Chevrons view of the pre-sold round coming up from Brazil? Frade as you said is part of that addition in second half.
We had no production in Frade in the first quarter -- second quarter an average about 5 000 barrels a day.
Our share at the month of June we were closer to 10 000 barrels a day our share.
So there is some expectation there that we will go grow in the second half or we will have more volume in the second half in our project not too far off from our original plan the field is performing at this point pretty well.
So thats a plus.
On the case of Papa Terra Papa Terra may come on production this year but its not going to be a significant mover on production.
Petrobras is still talking about bringing it own this year but its late in the year.
So we do not believe that it will -- it will be significant mover on our production for the year.
With regards to the deepwater round all our exploration opportunities we review the opportunities set and we never disclosed upfront what we think of it we always talk about what we did afterward and give more color at that point in time.
Okay George.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
I think weve got one more -- time for one more question.
Okay.
Our final question comes from Faisel Khan of Citigroup.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Thanks guys.
Good afternoon.
Just on the key exploration around acreage traditions it seems like you guys definitely had a good amount of acreage during the year and a few bolt-on acquisitions.
Can you give us an idea of what the -- how much of that is your capital budget that made up and whats your appetite going forward.
And I have a follow-up on downstream side.
Faisel Khan Id like to do a little bit of work because I think about 25% of 30% of our moneys are outside of our focus areas on the drilling side.
So its in that range.
We like to keep -- in the past we tried to push usually as much as 80%.
So were more in the 70% this year in our focus areas.
And thats -- once again I have kept the numbers exactly where we are for the year but the plan was we were going to be a little bit lighter in our focus areas this year.
Our appetite is driven by a couple of things.
Its of course the amount of money we have to spend and also the scale in the quality of the opportunity.
It starts very much with quality of the rock that rock doesnt work we dont view the risk and the scale of the opportunity to be attractive.
We dont go there.
So its not about acreage its about quality.
Preferentially if possible we like to be in a low-cost option situation.
We like to get a nice piece of acreage with a seismic obligation and minimal or low numbers of wells to drill.
And thats particularly the case in these test areas these areas outside of our focus areas.
We dont want to get saddled with a really large program and then draw high risk well and find out its not very attractive.
So we tend to try to do that everywhere around the world and a lot of these opportunities that we moved into recently are very much structured that way not a large amount of calls on upfront entry.
And they have seismic obligations and small drilling obligations to answer really the geological question.
Okay.
Got it.
On the downstream earnings -- focus on the U.S.
the U.S.
downstream results if I extract out the chemical earnings which I guess we can get that to Phillips 66 it seems like U.S.
downstream earnings are basically breakeven even first quarter and second quarter and given the refining position and marketing position you guys have I would have thought that there would be a lot more profitability out of these assets.
So can you give us an idea of how these assets are going to deliver that level of profitability? I know youve talked about Richmond being down I know some of the environmental expenses associated with that.
But can you talk about how this -- taking out chemicals how does U.S.
sort of downstream perform in a way it probably should? Right.
Faisel I think the key item is one that you already mentioned for our performance in the first half and it does have to do with unit downtime.
If I look at the first six months of this year and look at what our utilization rates were for our -- this will be worldwide but its obviously heavily influenced by the assets that we have in the U.S.
If I look at our operated utilization rate for the first half its running a good 10 points or so below what would have -- you would have seen on average for the 2011 or 2012 time period.
And that is a big penalty to absorb from an earnings standpoint.
As we go forward and we look at the second half the year I did mention that Richmond is up and fully operational.
But as we look at the second half of the year the vast majority of our downtime is already in the rearview window at this point.
So I think going forward if we can run reliably then youll have a much better outcome.
Okay great.
Thanks for the time.
Appreciate it.
Okay.
Well I think that concludes the call for the day and I appreciate everybodys interest in listening today and I particularly appreciate the questions that came in from the analysts.
Shawn Ill turn it back over to you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron's second quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevrons Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Hey thank you Jonathan.
Welcome to Chevrons third quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Joe Geagea Corporate Vice President and President Gas and Midstream and Jeff Gustavson General Manager Investor Relations.
We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevrons website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement on Slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The companys third quarter earnings were $5 billion or $2.57 per diluted share.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was about 15%.
Our debt ratio at the end of September was approximately 11%.
In the third quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares.
In the fourth quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.
Though not shown on the slide Id like to call attention to our track record on shareholder returns.
We are in first place on total shareholder returns for the three-year five-year and 10-year periods compared to our peer group of global integrated energy companies.
Turning to Slide 4 cash generated from operations was $10 billion during the third quarter and approximately $25 billion year-to-date.
The third quarter was the strongest cash generation quarter this year.
Adverse working capital effects noted earlier in the year continued to abate.
Importantly third quarter also saw stronger operating performance in both our Upstream and Downstream businesses.
Capital and exploratory expenditures were $9.6 billion during the quarter and $26.4 billion year-to-date.
I would like to make it clear that major resource acquisitions stemming from our business development activities are not included in our annual budget targets.
We have found the success rate timing and pricing for this effort to be too uncertain to effectively include in our annual budgeting and Board approval process for C&amp;E.
Because we have been very successful this year in our resource acquisition effort taking up acreage and project opportunities in Canada Australia and the Kurdistan region of Iraq we anticipate we will close the year with C&amp;E outlays above our planned levels.
While there are still some large uncertainties on timing we presently anticipate our 2013 C&amp;E investments will be around 10% or still higher than our original target for the year.
At quarter end our cash balances exceeded $18 billion as total debt balances were identical in size we ended the quarter in a neutral net cash net debt position.
Confirming what Ive said previously the company continues to move toward a more traditional net debt structure.
Jeff will now take us through the quarterly comparison.
Jeff?  Thanks Pat.
Turning to slide five all compared results for the third quarter 2013 with the second quarter of 2013.
As a reminder our earnings release compares third quarter 2013 with the same quarter a year ago.
Third quarter earnings were 5 billion about 400 million lower than second quarter results.
Foreign exchange movements accounted for more than the overall decrease in earnings worth almost 600 million of the decline.
The strengthening of the U.S.
dollar in the second quarter and the weakening of the U.S.
dollar in the third quarter caused a significant swing between the two periods.
We moved from a net positive foreign exchange position in the second quarter of 300 million to a net negative position of nearly the same amount in the third quarter.
Without this element our earnings performance this quarter would actually be better than the prior quarter.
Upstream earnings were up 143 million reflecting higher liquids realizations and liftings mostly offset by unfavorable foreign exchange effects.
Downstream results decreased 386 million between quarters lower margins and unfavorable foreign exchange effects partly offset by higher volumes drove the decrease.
The variance in the other bar largely reflects an unfavorable swing in corporate tax items during the quarter.
On slide 6 our U.S.
upstream earnings for the third quarter were 57 million lower than second quarters results.
Higher realizations increased earnings by 90 million driven largely by a rise in crude oil prices partially offset by the fall in natural gas prices.
Lower production volumes decreased earnings by 30 million mainly due to maintenance activity in the Gulf of Mexico partly offset by higher production in the Permian.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including higher DD&amp;A and higher exploration expenses.
Turning to slide 7 international upstream earnings were 200 million higher than the second quarter.
Higher realizations increased earnings by 430 million average liquids unit realizations increased by 11% consistent with the increase in average Brent spot prices between quarters.
The timing of liftings across multiple countries increased earnings by $90 million.
At the end of the quarter we were in a slightly over lifted position.
An unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects decreased earnings by 465 million.
The third quarter had a loss of about 190 million compared to a gain of about 275 million in the second quarter.
The other bar reflects a number of items favorable tax effects gains on asset transactions and lower operating expenses were partially offset by higher exploration expenses.
Slide 8 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevrons worldwide net oil equivalent production.
Production increased 3000 barrels per day between quarters.
New wells that are Agbami and Usan projects in Nigeria additional production from the Delaware basin in the Permian as well as volumes associated with Angola LNG increased net production by about 22 000 barrels per day.
Plants maintenance activities decreased production by 14 000 barrels per day during the quarter most notably in the UK Trinidad and Thailand with a partial offset from less maintenance activity in Australia.
External constraints hurt third quarter production by 10 000 barrels per day primarily due to a mid-quarter lightning strike in Thailand which severely damaged and necessitated the shutdown of our customers gas processing plant.
This in turn curtailed our Thai gas production.
The base business in other bar includes the impact of normal field declines cost recoveries and the impact of price effects on entitlement volumes.
Production for the first three quarters of 2013 averaged just over 2.6 million barrels a day below our initial full year production guidance of 2.65 million barrels per day.
Several factors have affected our year-to-date production results first Angola LNGs ramp-up of production has been slower than anticipated.
Second turnaround activity across various locations has been more extensive than originally planned.
Our final contributing factor relates to the damage of the gas plant in Thailand.
We expect volumes to be higher in the fourth quarter as production is restored following maintenance related down-time during the third quarter and as new production comes online.
For the full year we expect to come in around 98% to 99% of our original production target.
Turning to Slide 9.
The U.S.
downstream earnings improved by $111 million between periods higher volumes increased earnings by $55 million primarily due to our Richmond California refinery running at normal capacity for the full quarter.
Lower refining and marketing margins decreased earnings by $95 million driven by rising crude cost.
Reduced industry crack spreads also reflected improved supply conditions and higher plant utilization rates following the end of second quarter maintenance activity.
Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $30 million primarily due to lower environmental charges.
Greater gains on miscellaneous small asset sales improved earnings in the third quarter by $60 million.
The chemicals and other variance primarily reflects the absence of planned and unplanned downtime CPChems Port Arthur and Sweeney plants in the second quarter.
On Slide 10 International Downstream earnings increased by $497 million between quarters decreased by $497 million between quarters.
Higher plant utilization rates boosted volumes and increased earnings by $30 million in the third quarter.
Refining and marketing margins were lower by $220 million.
Rising crude cost continued soft product demand and oversupply in the Far East weakens industry crack spreads while price lag effects mainly for jet fuel and naphtha in Asia impacted marketing margins.
Timing effects represented a $140 million negative earnings variance between quarters driven largely by the revaluation of inventory.
The swing between quarters was primarily due to rising crude prices during the third quarter compared to falling crude prices during the second quarter.
Foreign currency swings reduced earnings by about $115 million.
Third quarter had a loss of approximately $85 million compared to a small gain of $30 million in the second quarter.
The other bar includes a number of unrelated items including various tax items and higher shipping costs.
Slide 11 covers all other.
Third quarter net charges were $522 million compared to $350 million in the second quarter an increase of $172 million between periods.
Adverse corporate tax items resulted in a $219 million decrease to earnings between quarters.
Our overall year-to-date effective tax rate at just around 40% is trending a little lower than in recent years.
As you know in any one period this overall rate can be influenced by many factors including jurisdictional mix between Upstream and Downstream jurisdictional mix within Upstream foreign exchange and asset sales transactions.
Corporate charges and other items were $47 million lower this quarter.
Year-to-date net charges in the all other segment were $1.3 billion at the end of the third quarter.
We believe our quarterly guidance range of $400 million to $500 million for the all other segment is still appropriate going forward.
Joe is now going to provide an update on our LNG marketing activities.
Joe?  Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
I would like to spend a few minutes talking about the LNG market in our LNG portfolio.
So turning to Slide 13 I will start by grinding you quickly on the global demand outlook for energy.
The worlds economy is growing driving increased demand for all forms of energy and much of this growth is in Asia where people increasingly aspire for a better quality of life.
And achieving this aspiration does require stable secure and affordable energy supplies.
Total worlds energy demand as forecasted increased 30% by 2025 from todays level.
Natural gas demand has projected to grow even more by about 40% by 2025.
And LNG demand growth is expected to be even greater.
Turning to Slide 14 LNG demand has already doubled since 2000 and it is predicted to double again by 2025.
Meeting this demand would require three elements maintaining the reliability of the existing supply delivering current LNG projects under construction and investing in the construction of new LNG capacity.
Even if the first two elements are well in hand this still leaves an opportunity of around 150 million tons per year of new projects to be sanctioned.
Now my buyers are counting on the United States to make up the shortfall with pricing linked to Henry Hub.
Even if you believe the most optimistic predictions of new U.S.
supply available for export there are still projected short fall of more than 50 million tons in 2025 and more reasonable predictions of U.S.
exports suggest a GAAP of around a 100 million tons in 2025.
So the U.S.
alone will not bridge this forecast demand supply gap.
And thats we believe new supply needs to come from multiple sources.
Now developing these supplies will also take time whether thats for permitting a construction of U.S.
LNG export terminals or for exploration appraisal and development of new producing regions such as East Africa.
Building and maintaining LNG facilities is technically challenging capital intensive and require significant expertise.
The last 35 LNG projects developed globally took on average over 16 years to deliver that LNG to market.
Although we do acknowledge that completion times are improving.
Additional capacity utilization rates for LNG facilities in production have only averaged about 85% in recent years.
Geopolitical instability resource availability and unplanned turnaround have resulted on average in roughly 35 million metric tons of the existing nameplate capacity being unavailable at any given time.
Turning to slide 15 well we have seen growth in global energy trading and expect that interregional trade of LNG will continue to increase we believe that global gas markets will remain regionally distinct over the medium to long term.
This is mainly due to the high cost and relatively lack of infrastructure to transport and store gas globally.
While 2/3rds of the worlds oil is shipped by tanker only 10% of the worlds current natural gas supply is shipped as LNG and this forecasted increase to 14% by 2025.
We believe the majority of this LNG will continue to be delivered under long term contracts.
The traditional LNG importing countries of Japan Korea and Taiwan have no interconnecting pipeline infrastructure and virtually no indigenous energy resources and therefore rely on LNG to meet almost of their gas demand.
Only 5 years ago 17 countries were importing LNG today 26 countries are doing so and this is expected to increase.
So lets move to slide 16 where I would like to focus more specifically on U.S.
LNG exports.
Many analysts forecast that U.S.
LNG export should reach approximately 50 million tons per year by 2025 equivalent of around 11% of the worlds LNG demand and by 8% of domestic U.S.
gas demand.
At these levels U.S.
LNG exports would only represent the small share of the global LNG market.
Greenfield LNG projects are unlikely to be developed outside of the United States unless its significant portion of the offtake is committed under long term contracts with robust pricing that underpins the financial investment required to monetize these resources.
A common perception is the Henry Hub linked pricing will be landed LNG prices in Asia will be significantly less than other world sources.
We think thats not automatically a given.
U.S.
Liquefaction cost are likely to rise as more projects compete for resources including engineering contractors fabrication yard space and project financing.
In addition growing demand in the United States where new petrochemical projects power plants exports to Mexico and a transportation segment will mean new demand pull on the same supply base.
Coupled with weather and storage effects this could easily increase price strength and volatility for Henry Hub.
In order to ensure that sufficient supplies do get developed there needs to be cooperation alignment and understanding between LNG buyers and suppliers.
This has helped when buyers diversify to energy mix maintain a geographically diverse LNG portfolio recognizing that no one region including the United States can meet all expected demand and finally take equity positions in LNG projects to ensure the right projects are built in the right places for the right price.
We have seen this formula work in Gorgon and Wheatstone and were confident the same will be true for Kitimat.
Turning to Slide 17.
I would like to now talk about our LNG sale commitments.
From a portfolio perspective we believe its prudent to leave around 25% of volume for placement on the spot market for operational flexibility.
However at the individual project level this ratio may vary.
For example on Gorgon we are 65% committed.
We are still prepared to increase volumes under contract.
However Gorgon is scheduled to come online at a time when limited new supplies are expected.
So we are confident of being able to place uncommitted volumes into the market.
On Wheatstone 85% of Chevrons equity LNG is now committed on long-term basis.
In addition to the Gorgon and Wheatstone Foundation projects we have made good progress this year with buyers for LNG from our Indonesia Deepwater Development or IDD.
For our unsanctioned projects including IDD Kitimat and Gorgon Train 4 we are targeting to have around 70% committed under long-term contracts by the time we will reach a final investment decision.
Once achieved we will end up with our desired portfolio objective of having 75% of our LNG production sold through the long-term contracts.
Turning to Slide 18.
I would like to close by showing you how Chevron is well-positioned to become a major LNG supplier by the end of this decade based on Wood Mack estimates.
With the project under construction at Gorgon and Wheatstone and with our existing equity shares in Angola LNG and Australia Northwest Shelf we will be one of the top 10 LNG suppliers in the world.
If we include Kitimat and Gorgon Train 4 we will potentially move into the top five.
In summary we see strong LNG market fundamentals supporting our growing LNG portfolio which should allow us to deliver strong future gas generation for many years to come.
I will now turn it back to Pat.
Okay thank you Joe.
Now lets take a look at the latest updates on our LNG projects.
The Gorgon project is over 70% complete.
We continue to make good progress on all fronts.
In early October we installed the third of five gas turbine generators.
To-date 14 of the 21 LNG Train 1 process modules have been installed three are in transit and the remaining are scheduled to follow in fairly rapid succession.
Work on the jetty is progressing.
We now have 43 of the 56 jetty caissons installed including those needed to support all key structural elements.
We have recently reached mechanical completion of the domestic gas pipeline in preparation for operational readiness by year end.
Onshore pipelines are complete on the Io/Jansz 30-inch pipeline.
And finally three wells at the Io/Jansz field are ready to flow gas and seven wells are completed at the Gorgon field.
Wheatstone is proceeding per plan and is now over 20% complete.
We continue to transform the site with ongoing earthworks and good progress on establishing critical infrastructure.
Construction continues on the materials offloading facility and we completed our first permanent foundation in concrete pour in September.
Site preparation continues with about 19% of our 23 000 piles driven including commencement of the LNG tank pile driving.
Platform construction is over 43% complete and we have received critical platform equipment such as the power transformers and process vessels.
We just completed our micro-tunnel boring under the shoreline in preparation for the offshore installation of the trunkline.
Now we posted several updated photos of progress made at both Gorgon and Wheatstone on our investor website located at chevron.com and Ill invite you to take a look at those.
For Kitimat front end engineering continues on plan.
We have remained focused on early earthworks at the LNG plant site where construction on the office camp industrial site and service road is ongoing.
Key activities for the Pacific Trail Pipeline are obtaining necessary permits building roads and securing right-of-way access.
LNG marketing activities and the engagement with potential foundation customers are underway.
The timing of the final investment decision will be determined by our ability to secure sufficient LNG offtake agreements with our customers.
Turning now to Slide 20.
Id like to share some highlights of the strategic progress we have made during the quarter.
We signed binding long-term sales and purchase agreements with Tohuku Electric Power Company in Japan to supply just under 1 million tons per year of LNG for up to 20 years.
As Joe noted this brings total volumes committed to customers in Asia on a long term basis to 85% for our Wheatstone project.
Continuing with the Australian scene we recently announced the acquisition of two deepwater exploration interest located in the Bight Basin off the Southern Australian coast.
These are very large blocks with significant exploration potential and further reinforces the importance of Australia to Chevrons global growth strategy.
In Canada we successfully completed an initial 12 week exploration drilling program in the liquids rich portion of the Kaybob area of the Duvernay Shale Play.
Initial well results were very encouraging with average initial production rates in excess of 1200 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Both of these developments are consistent with our focus on early entry opportunities which have the potential to generate the most value for our shareholders.
We also had a major milestone in our downstream chemicals business.
CPChem announced our investment decision for U.S.
Gulf Coast Petrochemicals project.
This project includes construction of a 1.5 million metric ton per year ethane cracker as well as two new polyethylene facilities each with an annual capacity of 500 000 metric tons.
This is an attractive project one that takes advantage of existing infrastructure and advantage fleet stock.
Plant startup is planned for 2017.
Turning now to slide 21 I would like to close by highlighting our continued strong performance particularly in our upstream business.
Our 2013 year-to-date upstream earnings margin was $23.33 per barrel.
Based on these year-to-date results we continue to lead our direct peer group by a wide margin.
Were almost $5.70 per barrel ahead of our closest competitor.
This is a position we have now held for 15 consecutive quarters.
We also led on this important metric at the six month mark by over $4.25 per barrel against the wide range of EMP companies.
These peer leading financial results are directly related to the quality of our investment decisions and the strength of our portfolio.
We appreciate you listening in this morning and your interest in the company I would like now open up the microphone.
Joe and I are happy to take your questions.
We do have a full queue so please limit yourself to one question and a single related follow-up if thats necessary we will certainly do our very best to see that we get all your questions answered.
So Jonathan please open up the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Your question please.
I will start with an LNG question so I mean Im up late and I keep getting these stories from Australia on my iPad which I will see you know going around the market and you know people are very worried about the LNG (indiscernible) or whatever it is something else with the project.
Maybe give us a color on how youre feeling about the startup date and maybe if there are any penalties if the date back in time whats the sort of pillar date to get Gorgon on screen.
Thanks.
You know I think we have been pretty upfront about acknowledging some of the challenges that we have had earlier we talked previously about logistic challenges labor productivity and weather challenges.
We have solved for all practical purposes the logistics challenges and in fact we have asked for and received additional lay down space on the island and so were able to now kind of build material and inventory on Barrow Island.
Productivity I would space is improving on all fronts but there are still some areas that still needs to improve.
Were still impacted by weather we had you know heavy rainy period back in June but right now were in the good weather period and are making very good progress each month.
I think were moving into a critical phase from a scheduled standpoint on the project.
We talk about getting all the Train 1 modules on to the island.
Thats proceeding pretty much as planned.
I think they will be here by year end or shortly into the New Year maybe one that will be mid quarter next year.
Whats important next is the mechanical electrical and kind of instrumentation work and construction or contractor work on those activities is ramping up on the island now but there are still uncertainties that exist with the projects of our size and our challenge every day is to mitigate the risks find the risks mitigate the risks as they arrive but the jetty I think we are trying to say all the critical elements of the jetty the main critical elements of the jetty those that support the structural elements are on plan.
Right now we are in the process of finalizing our budget for the year and should there be any reviews during that that suggest the material change other than what we said previously will certainly bring that to your attention but I dont have anything more to offer.
Thanks Pat.
And let me address your question on the marketing side Id like to say that our customers are our partners so they fully understand the project challenges.
I would also say that Gorgon is not coming up all at once is one train at a time.
So that gives us time to work with our partners with our customers on accommodating their needs and we have those discussions ongoing all the time.
I cannot address specifically whats in our contract with respect to kind of these as you can appreciate these are commercial elements and I cannot address those.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Your question please.
Yes good morning everybody.
And thanks for the LNG commentary as well as addressing that CapEx question.
Staying with Gorgon Joe I mean can you update us on how the seasons Train 4 is progressing and what is the interplay on Trains 1 and 3 their progress and the ultimate decision upon expansion meaning do your partners need to see more final Gorgon cost estimates before committing to the expansion and albeit at a significantly lower unit cost expansion?  Yes I think and maybe I will take the question around Train 4.
I think we continue to work with our partners.
We are all interested certainly in seeing this continue to progress.
I think all of the JV partners are interested though in seeing Train 1 come up and seeing progress on 2 and 3 etcetera.
Everybody wants to get an understanding of the cost structure.
I also think that people want to get certainty around the fiscal and regulatory regime.
And as you know there has been a change of government in Australia and so a little bit of settling down and stability there would be appreciative.
Those factors are going to be taken into account.
I also think its fair to say that the cost structure in Australia is different now than it was when Train 1 was taken Trains 1 2 3 were taken to file investment decision back in 2009.
The cost structure has elevated.
And I think its fair to say that that has put at risk some of Australias kind of global competitiveness.
So from a Chevron standpoint we are going to look at Train 4 and we are going to assess it under those new conditions and we are going to look at that relative to other opportunities that we have got in our portfolio and look for that next investment to compete with other opportunities.
Obviously a Train 4 does have certain Brownfield economic advantages to it but we need to take those advantages lay in the new macro conditions that we see in Australia and take a look at the whole portfolio activity.
Having said all that we are continuing on with environmental approvals for Train 4.
So maybe I will add a bit of color commentary also because the marketing is essential to Train 4 and all the reasons that Pat has mentioned I would also say that the LNG market has different dynamics as well.
Our job is to continue to find customer for Train 4 which we continue to do.
We believe the offerings of the Train 4 are different than the offering of our other projects like Kitimat.
Train 4 is an expansion is a Brownfield expansion Train 4 is exposure to Australia.
Train 4 however does not have equity unlike Kitimat where we are offering equity.
So it really caters to a different set of customers and in our view from a marketing perspective its truly not competing with Kitimat and I think thats important for us to say.
So to follow-up does that mean the potential debottlenecking of Trains 1 through 3 is something that could potentially proceed a Train 4 I mean I know there are three different tranches of potential expansion.
Does it change I guess the debottlenecking opportunity move that forward or is that still something that we'd fall if it didn't back follow?  Yeah.
I mean I think Evan that we would -- I mean debottlenecking is always something that you would do kind of as an ordinary course of activity and often times it has the very highest economics associated with it.
So that will be taken into account in our normal planning process.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Your question please.
Yeah.
Hi just two quick ones.
With the Duvernay wells Pat that how much were they running I know it's science times its early days but I am just wondering an approximate cost?  You mean you are talking approximate well cost?  Well cost?  Yeah that's not a number that we want to give out at this point in time.
Okay that's fine.
Next one is on LNG are you surprised at all that on the demand side in terms of customers that they haven't built more physical gas storage in Asia and do you think that will change as the LNG market builds up more?  That's a very good question John.
This is Joe here.
It is going to take time for them to get there clearly there is capacity with the re-gas terminals we are seeing that in Thailand we are seeing that in Singapore but remember that market is huge so significant amount of storage has to be made available for it to really make a difference I think we may get there eventually but I see a slow pace to get to that point.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your question please.
Joe first of all can you remind us what the contract resets look like on your base load marketing for Gorgon in particular and maybe when you're addressing the question if you could talk little bit about what are issues around Henry Hub pricing is really more about de-linking and the oil for example went for 150 boxes of course to actually depressing the current price and I've got a follow-up.
I'll start by saying that most contracts that are of that length 20 year for them to be sustainable and to be win win for both customer for buyer and seller have reopeners on.
Were not getting into specific these reopeners are meant to really to make sure that the pricing formula continues to reflect the market.
What I can tell you that all of our projects are paced that we were not going to see major renewal for a big portion of the volume all in one year.
We have been very careful in pacing these renewals over time because again that's in our interest and in the buyers interest to spread that renewal timing over a longer frame than just having all occur in the same time.
Back to your questions on Henry Hub there are two elements to it.
We have been public in saying that LNG that comes out of the United States made in the United States it's perfectly okay for it to be price off of Henry Hub.
LNG that is made in Australia East Africa or Canada it's a harder proposition to see why you would introduce a regional market reference to those markets.
So that's been very difficult.
In terms of breaking the oil linkage I will tell you that for the last 40 years the industry has learned to operate within an oil framework that saw oil prices go up to $140 and go down to $20.
I submit to you that within these traditional framework you can introduce S curves you can moderate slops there is a lot of other levers that actually work to prevent LNG from becoming very unaffordable and the regions where affordability is becoming an issue.
So I think we can address those excursions that could be harmful from an affordability point of view within a traditional framework without necessarily going to something unproven that could also be a lot more volatile.
We've also said that one way for people to get a better attenuation on price for them to get into the equity side.
That clearly gives them direct exposure to the Upstream side to the whole value chain and effectively you are getting an attenuation to pricing because you are getting the whole value chain benefits from that.
So hopefully that helps.
It does a lot.
Thanks Joe.
And my follow-up hopefully also is a bit quicker but we all watched the unit earnings trends the very strong earnings trends you guys have had for quite some time now but whether we want to look at cash where the focus is earnings.
And I guess my question is your DD&amp;A runs about $6 lower than your peer group and it appears to be trending higher so when you have all this I guess non-producing capital coming online from these new projects.
Can you give us some feel as to how the DD&amp;A trend is going to look and I will be going back? Thank you.
Right.
So Doug I think you should expect we have seen and you should expect the trend to continue higher charges for DD&amp;A.
Certainly thats the pattern we have seen over the last couple of years its the pattern that we see looking at 2013 versus 2012 and it is the expectation that I would have going forward for 2014 and it is a direct reflection of the capital investment programs that we have had underway and as we bring those new projects online you see rate increases associated with that.
Alright Ill leave it there.
Thanks Pat.
But Doug I guess I would say its important even with that and we still have the leading earnings per barrel margin and we have the leading cash margin.
I am just trying to figure out what the future trends going to look like when these projects come up flat.
I appreciate that.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays Capital.
Your question please.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Two somewhat related question one for Joe and I think one for Pat.
For Joe when we look at Kitimat campaign if you can give us some idea that what is the competitive position relative to building a LNG trend in Kitimat again operate there which is a pretty remote area and (indiscernible) could be unusual comparing to in Australia whereas you guys have a lot of operation or in the Gulf of Mexico which you dont have a lot of operation.
So thats the first one.
Okay.
Pat do you want to give you the second one first?  Sure.
Go ahead.
If I look at this is not an issue in the near term but your current cash flow essentially just barely cover your CapEx and so at what point now of course when you have zero net debt is not an issue today but theoretically thats a management standpoint at what point you restart questioning whether you want to continue borrow money to buy back stock and at what (indiscernible) that continue once that you enumerate the share buyback that we have to relook at your CapEx program?  Okay good question.
Ill go first Paul on the Kitimat question.
And its a very good question.
I will start by talking a little bit about the resource base.
If you look at our acquisition of that resource base we are very very pleased with the entry price.
So we also know that we have a huge resource base in both Liard and the Horn River.
And that resource base sits right at the gate of North Asia where we continuously see increased demand.
So strategically it is very well-positioned for North Asia buyers and our buyers see that and thats the value proposition would have been communicated to them.
They also see in Kitimat two partners that have complementary skills.
They are very aligned and very committed to the project.
They see a settled government and a provisional government that are supportive and understand the opportunity.
They see a country that is very much in favor of exports and coping toward Asia.
They see a project with export permits in hand and a clear line of sight on a pipeline and a transportation solution.
And I did say something about the labor cost.
I will tell you though if we are the first out of the gate we will have an ability to attenuate that versus being the last one coming in to develop the project.
And finally what we tell our buyers this is a great opportunity for them to participate through equity and the whole value chain.
And in doing so they really get direct exposure to North America gas pricing.
All of those are good value drivers for any buyer in North Asia.
They are getting it.
I think we are getting good reception.
And obviously time will tell and our ability to sign contracts but we are very encouraged by what we see and the value that Kitimat can offer to those buyers.
And I will go back to Pat for the capital question.
Still before that from a cost standpoint do you from what you can because you know a lot about Australia and I presume you know quite a lot about Gulf Coast is developing cost and operating cost of Kitimat is going to be competitive with Australia but cheaper than Gulf Coast or any kind of insight that you can provide?  It is too early for us.
I remind you that we have signed a transaction in February of this year.
We became operator in July of this year.
We are really getting out there.
There are two things here that we need to be very careful on it is project development and execution which is really we're focused on and secondly the marketing and they have to go hand in hand.
I would tell you though the freight advantage that we see in Western Canada clearly is something in favor of Canada compared to Gulf Coast exports.
Okay and Paul just going back to your question.
I want to start with the priorities that we've always put out there in terms of uses of cash dividends first reinvesting in the business taking care of our balance sheet and then share repurchases really come at the very tail end of that.
And you're right we are in a period.
Right now our capital requirements are high just to remind you we've got five LNG trains under construction.
That's a very significant component we do not have we do not see in the forward-look that we will have anything as lumpy as that or as sized as that.
So we know 2013 is a high C&amp;E year We have said in the past that 2014 will be a high C&amp;E year.
George referenced last time on the call about a flattening that will occur.
So we do see that the weakness of our capital spend period right now is not something that we see coming forward in future years.
At the same time though we do fundamentally believe our greatest value proposition for our shareholders is finding and investing in the right resources and developing the right projects.
And so we will continue to invest in the business and so you see us doing that in terms of resource acquisitions that I talked about earlier.
So we try very hard to balance this returns and growth equation here and we've been very successful.
The decisions that we have made and we believe the new resource acquisitions that we have made for future for growth 2020 and beyond are excellent projects.
So we believe we're putting that equation together quite nicely.
I guess the other thing that I would say is when you bring new resource acquisitions like we've done with Kurdistan or Cooper Basin or Kitimat et cetera.
When you're adding those elements to your portfolio it does mean that you re-prioritize your portfolio and certain things probably fall towards the bottom.
These would be more mature assets and less competitive in our portfolio believe that they have potentially had spot in someone else's portfolio and that's where your asset sale or your portfolio optimization component increases.
We've been very good doing that in downstream you've seen us do all that restructuring in downstream.
Joe has overseen a fair amount of restructuring occurring in our midstream area and I think you can expect some additional assets sales now coming forward from upstream?   Is there some form of metrics that you look at from a financial net debt to capital or net debt to EBITDA you would look at say once you reach a certain level the share buyback will say maybe that come to an halt?  We obviously are interested in maintaining our AA status credit rating status.
We're not interested in infringing upon that at all so we look at that as kind of a limiting factor but frankly Paul we are such a long away from that at this point it's not a limiting component.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Your question please.
Two questions first on the LNG facility in Canada a potential LNG facility in Canada.
Can you discuss the merits of owning the entire integrated asset and why not moving to a more asset like model where utility like company owns the liquefaction facility you own the resource and you market the gas and charter the sheds.
I mean it seems like it's a very large piece of invested capital.
There is a lot of companies out there especially in Canada and the U.S.
that have the ability to finance this stuff at a much lower cost of capital.
And then my follow-up is that it seems like building a pipeline from Liard and Horn River to (indiscernible) or even to Kitimat.
It's very expensive.
There is a lot of depreciated type all the way from there down to the Gulf Coast that has a lower invested capital base.
I mean why not they ship the gas down there and sign up any other facilities that are sort of ramping up.
So thats a little bit less feel but if you can help me answer this?  That was not a less feel at all Faisel.
Good question.
Let me tell you that we are not building a pipeline from the field to the LNG facility.
We are clearly leveraging existing frontlines that currently won and they are operated and owned by others.
The piece that we are building is the link from the frontline to our facility I call that out umbilical.
And thats very essential for us to actually control that to control the feet going into the LNG facility.
So where we can we are leveraging other facilities infrastructures processing plants could be another place where we leverage as well.
So we are adopting some of which you are suggesting.
When we do this we always look at the strategic fit of the asset.
Is it essential for us to control it from a commercial point of view? Is it essential for flow assurance to our facility? Those are normally governing criteria for us to decide whether we want to own the interconnecting framework same thing by ships.
We can sell FOB as well and we dont have to build ships but sometimes we have to build ships to ensure flow assurance on the back end of the LNG facility.
The name of the game is really to get the molecules that we are just acquiring at a very attractive price in the Horn and Liard to the market and maximize our returns.
And we look through that whole thing in details.
And the other options also we are looking at from lowering the capital investment we are asking other equity partners to come in.
And by farming in for buyers clearly we are lowering the capital exposure.
So we are looking all of that to basically address the element of the question that you brought Faisel.
Okay.
And then the pipeline gas as you could pipeline all this gas down to the Gulf Coast on whats basically all depreciated pipeline whether its alliance or northern border and then down in GPL to the Gulf Coast I mean the invested capital of those assets is far lower than these pipelines at TransCanada and Spectra talking by building to supply that gas to the Canadian West Coast.
I mean is that an opportunity where you can move that resource down to the Gulf Coast and export it out of the Gulf Coast and with the Panama Canal sort of opening up I mean it seems sort of like an asset like sort of model but I dont know?  [inaudible].
Thank you Faisel.
Okay fair enough.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Your question please.
Thanks very much.
Two questions on your unconventional gas exposure U.S.
gas production was up almost 5% year-over-year is that primarily legacy Atlas acreage?  I think there is both an Atlas components as well as a kind of newer Permian Delaware Basin component to that.
Okay fair enough.
And then on to Europe lots of headlines recently involving countries where you guys are operating or thought about operating in Lithuania Romania et cetera.
Any status update you guys want to provide on how you are thinking about that?  Yes I think we are trying to say right from the get-go that this would be a long-term development opportunity and that it would take several years really to understand how the overall play could develop.
We do think if it works and if its proven up then there is enough here to potentially build the business but we are just in the very early stages of exploration and so I dont want to get  I dont want us leaping too far too soon with implications here.
I mean we are active in Poland.
We have drilled four wells there.
We have got 3D seismic underway as well there.
In Romania we are picking up seismic activity.
In Ukraine we are still interested in having the PSA in the side we are hopefully getting closer on that.
So we continue to make progress.
It will be dependent upon the local governments and the local communities wanting to have us be there.
And so thats been a challenge.
It is an exploration play and so I think we need to give time to mature.
Right appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Your question please.
Yes.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I guess I would like to on the upstream side focus a little bit more on that cost side of things I mean obviously it was a good quarter in terms of realizations on the topline but you talked a little bit earlier about DD&amp;A being an issue.
Is there anything else maybe particular to the third quarter from an operating cost standpoint that's not recurring? I mean I know maintenance has an issue sometimes but I was just seeing if you could help us there and maybe think about how that unfolds in '14 and '15?  I think from a cost standpoint exploration was heavier in the third quarter than the second quarter but if you look on a year-to-date basis it's pretty much in-line with what we have seen previously.
We're seeing higher industry costs you referenced that I think that's just a general trend that has been evident but also maintenance in the third quarter was a little bit heavier kind of pre-planned as well as some unplanned as well.
So I think those are the factors that I would call your attention to.
And in terms of any thoughts on '14 and '15 I mean are we seeing trends here I mean I agree with you there that the industry is seeing higher cost but are there any trends specific to Chevron that we should think about or even another way of asking it as the LNG projects come on are we going to see that as a significant impact maybe lowering operating cost?  Yes.
I don't think there is anything unique in Chevron's operations going forward that I would suggest and I think I'll differ on the LNG operation side of things.
I'm not in a position to comment about what op expense looks like in 2015 and 2016 at this point.
Okay.
I think we've got time for one more question.
Certainly.
Our final question comes from the line of Allen Good from Morningstar.
Your question please.
Just a couple for Joe on LNG.
You've been pretty detailed on the merits of Canadian gas relative to Gorgon and relative to U.S..
Should we go and take it that exploring natural gas out of the Gulf Coast doesn't fit competitively within Chevron's current LNG portfolio?  You're making too many assumptions right there.
We are focused on Kitimat for now and again we have opportunities in Australia.
We are not ruling anything out at this stage but at the same time I am not prepared to tell you that we won't look at opportunities anywhere else in the world.
For now we're focusing on Canada.
And then finally you mentioned the appeal of the equity availability in Kitimat for some of your potential partners.
Is there a minimum equity stake that Chevron would like to retain in Kitimat or vice versa of sort of target that you'd like to sell down as a portion of equity in the project?  We have not put any number out there obviously it's up to the buyer also to indicate interest.
We kind of like a number in our mind in terms of what end up but it's really a function of where the buyers are.
We're flexible and remember we've got a partner as well and we got to consult with them in terms of where they like to end up.
The gate is open though for the buyers to tell us what they think I don't know that we have indicated externally what that number is but we're open to entertain the buyer's ideas.
I'll just get one more quick one.
If you've been -- you make a pretty convincing case that demand for LNG will be out there.
Do you see any threats in the supply side though that could potentially disrupt the potential long-term economic for LNG projects?  In fact I see the threat in the opposite direction I see the threat as the longer its taking us to enable project to reach FID and you fast forward it 4 to 5 years how long it takes to build them.
This market can only go up and that is not really where the buyers would like and that's why our plea with the buyers have been we need to enable supply to come to the market because we have not seen anything on the demand side that is managing that carefully we see more subsidy we see nuclear out of the energy mix.
We see shale gas development a lot of places slower outside the United States all of that point to more need for LNG and I look at how many projects are actually reaching FID outside the United States.
I don't see a whole lot and that can only mean problem down the road and we've seen that play out in the past.
Back in 2007 there was an estimate of about 75 million tons of LNG that will hit the market in '14.
As we sit today it is only 10 million tons that will come in '14.
So we've got to crack this equation both from the supply side and the demand side and the longer we see projects delayed from reaching FID I think the price equation gets more difficult.
Yes great.
Thanks for that.
Okay thank you.
Before we close off the call since we didnt get a question on Ecuador I would like to provide our investors an update on this matter before we close out here.
Its a very important matter.
As you are probably well aware that we are in several recent positive developments related to this ongoing litigation earlier in the year several key witnesses financiers and other associates including an Ecuadorian judge involved in the case publicly been announced and exposed numerous examples of the blatant fraudulent tactics used by the plaintiff lawyers during the trial.
But more recently an International Tribunal convened under the authority of the U.S.
Ecuador Bilateral Investment Treaty and administered by the permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague found that the Settlement and Release Agreements between the Government of Ecuador and Texaco in the mid to late 1990s released Texaco Petroleum Company from any liability for all public interest or collective environmental claims.
Now this was a definitive ruling on the single most important legal issue in the case.
And it was made by an impartial Tribunal in The Hague where Chevron had picked one arbiter the Government of Ecuador had picked one arbiter and we both had agreed on the third.
And it was a unanimous ruling.
Importantly this ruling confirms that the claims against Texaco were not valid and should not have been brought in the first place.
And it also signifies that efforts to enforce the Ecuadorian judgment which the plaintiffs have so far unsuccessfully attempted in both Canada and Argentina that those are in direct violation of national and international laws.
Now separately couple of weeks back on October 15 the U.S.
trial began in New York related to Chevrons civil lawsuit against the Lago Agrio plaintiffs and several of their lawyers consultants and supporters alleging legal violations violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
Trial proceedings in this New York lawsuit are expected to last a few more weeks.
So we are encouraged by these recent developments but at the same time we expect the need to continue to defend our position and defend our assets well into the future before a final resolution becomes available to us.
So with that I will close off finally here.
And again thank you for your interest in the company and your time here this morning.
Good day to everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevrons third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevrons Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation Mr.
John Watson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jonathan and welcome to everyone to Chevrons fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington our Chief Financial Officer and Jeff Gustavson who is our General Manager of Investor Relations.
We will refer to slides that are available on Chevrons website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the detailed cautionary statement on Slide 2.
Turning to Slide 3 I want to begin by highlighting some of our strategic accomplishments for the year.
We had our lowest ever days away from work rate continuing our improvement over several years now.
Weve been the industry leader on this metric since 2010.
Our financial performance in 2013 was solid.
Once competition results are fully analyzed we expect to once again post the highest upstream cash and earnings margins per barrel compared to a broad set of peer competitors.
Our strong cash flows and balance sheet allowed us to fund our capital program and capture new resource opportunities while maintaining competitive shareholder distributions.
In our downstream business we started commercial operations of a 53 000 barrel per day vacuum gas oil FCC unit at the 50% owned Yeosu Refinery in South Korea.
We made significant progress on the construction of a 25 000 barrel per day premium base oil plant at the Pascagoula Mississippi refinery here in the U.S.
We expect to reach mechanical completions toward the end of the first quarter and we will then ramp-up to full capacity during the second quarter.
In addition weve also advanced our Oronite expansion project in Singapore.
Our CPChem affiliate our 50% owned chemicals joint venture announced final investment decision on a $6 billion US Gulf Coast Petrochemical project.
In our upstream business we achieved startup and first shipment from Angola LNG production began at the Papa-Terra project in Brazil; we also start up North Rankin-2 in Australia which maintains production capacity at the North West Shelf LNG project.
We made substantial progress on our major capital projects at the end of January.
Gorgon is currently about 76% complete while Wheatstone is about 27% complete.
Similar to prior quarters we have posted a number of photos highlighting our construction projects on these two important facilities on our Chevron Investor webpage located at chevron.com.
We also continued construction activities for our projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
The Jack/St.
Malo is now moored at its offshore location and is on schedule for startup later this year.
Big Foot is expected to be towed to location in the third quarter with expected startup next year.
We reached final investment decision for the Alder developments in the U.K.
North Sea as well as for Moho Nord in the Republic of the Congo.
We had a very busy year from a resource capture standpoint successfully acquiring an interest in a discovered resource opportunity in Argentina to develop and explore the Vaca Muerta Shale and we also closed our entry into the Kitimat LNG project in Western Canada where the resources will come from new positions in the Horn River and Liard basins.
We acquired additional shale and tight resource acreage in the Cooper Basin in Australia and the Duvernay Basin in Canada the Permian Basin in the U.S.
as well as in the Ukraine.
We also grew our exploration portfolio by acquiring positions in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq Australia Brazil Morocco and in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Our one year reserve replacement was 85% bringing our three year replacement ratio to 123%.
We are proud of our performance this past year.
With that Ill turn it over to Pat who will take you through the financial results Pat?   Hi thank you John.
Slide 4 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The Companys fourth quarter earnings were $4.9 billion or $2.57 per diluted share.
For the year earnings were $21.4 billion this equates to $11.09 per diluted share.
Return on capital employed for the year was 13.5% and our debt ratio at year end was 12%.
2013 marks our 26<sup>th</sup> consecutive annual dividend increase with 11% growth in the quarterly rate.
This demonstrates our confidence in our future performance and is consistent with our priority of rewarding shareholders with sustained and strong dividend growth.
In the fourth quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares bringing the full year share repurchase total to $5 billion.
In the first quarter of 2014 we expect to repurchase the same amount.
Finally Chevrons 2013 total shareholder return was 19.2%.
We continue to lead our peer group on total shareholder returns for the three year five year and ten year period.
Turning to Slide 5.
Cash generated from operations was $10.5 billion during the fourth quarter; this was the strongest cash generation quarter of the year.
For the full year cash from operations totaled $35 billion reflecting the continued cash generating strength of our portfolio.
Cash capital expenditures were $11.6 billion during the quarter and $38 billion for the full year.
We had a very successful year on our resource acquisition efforts as John just mentioned.
At year-end our cash balances totaled $16.5 billion giving us a net debt position of $4 billion.
The Company continues to move towards a more traditional capital structure.
Turning to Slide 6 Ill compare results for the fourth quarter 2013 with the third quarter 2013 as a reminder our earnings release compares fourth quarter 2013 with the same quarter a year-ago.
Fourth quarter earnings were $4.9 billion $20 million lower than the third quarter results.
Upstream earnings were down $240 million reflecting lower liquids realizations and higher exploration and operating expenses.
Partially offsetting were favorable foreign exchange movements of $490 million.
Downstream results edged up $10 million between quarters higher margins and favorable inventory effects were mostly offset by the absence of gains on asset transactions and higher operating expenses.
The variance in the other bar largely reflects the favorable swing in corporate tax items during the quarter.
On Slide 7 our U.S.
upstream earnings for the fourth quarter were $223 million lower than third quarters results.
Lower realization decreased earnings by $165 million consistent with the decline in U.S.
crude oil price indicators.
Lower production volumes reduced earnings by $35 million mainly due to planned maintenance activity in the Gulf of Mexico and cold weather disruptions in the Mid-Continent region.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including higher operating expenses and unfavorable tax impact partially offset by lower exploration and DD&amp;A expenses.
Turning to Slide 8 international upstream results were just $17 million lower than last quarters results.
Realizations decreased earnings by $60 million consistent with the decline in Brent prices between quarters.
Higher exploration expenses mainly driven by the write-off of an exploration well offshore Canada and higher geological and geophysical expenses across multiple areas decreased earnings by $190 million.
A combination of higher operating expenses and DD&amp;A lowered earnings $150 million between periods.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including the absence of asset sale gains and favorable tax effects from the prior quarter.
A favorable swing in foreign currency effects increased earnings by $490 million.
The fourth quarter had a gain of about $300 million compared to a loss of about $190 million in the third quarter.
Slide 9 summarizes the quarterly change in Chevrons worldwide net oil-equivalent production.
Production declined 9 000 barrels a day between quarters.
Our shale and tight assets contributed 7 000 barrels a day mainly from new production in the Marcellus region in the U.S.
and Vaca Muerta in Argentina.
External constraints lowered fourth quarter production by 12 000 barrels a day reflecting lower demand in Thailand and in Bangladesh as well as weather-related disruptions in the U.S.
The base business and other bar include the impact of normal field declines which are partially offset by higher production from Agbami in Nigeria.
Slide 10 compares full year 2013 net oil-equivalent production to that of 2012.
Production declined by 13 000 barrels per day in 2013.
Production averaged 2.6 million barrels per day for the year 98% of our original guidance.
This is driven primarily by the slower ramp up at Angola LNG more expensive turnaround activities and lower gas demand than anticipated in several countries.
Base business declines and asset sales reduced production by 49 000 barrels per day between years.
Our base business operation delivered strong performance for 2013.
Our base decline rate was lower than our target of 4% providing significant barrels and value.
Growing volumes from our shale and tight resources in the Permian and in the Marcellus regions in the U.S.
contributed 25 000 barrels per day.
Our shale and tight production grew more than 15% in 2013.
Incremental production from our major capital projects contributed 11 000 barrels per day driven by the Angola LNG startup First Oil from Papa-Terra in Brazil and the ramp up of production at the Usan field in Nigeria.
Turning now to Slide 11 U.S.
downstream results were up $16 million between periods.
Stronger margins increased earnings by $95 million mainly due to lower crude costs.
West Coast refining margins also benefited from the completion of plant maintenance activity in the third quarter at our El Segundo California refinery.
Gains on asset sales contributed about $90 million less in the fourth quarter than the third quarter.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items of smaller impact.
On Slide 12 international downstream earnings were nearly flat between quarters.
Margins improved earnings by $20 million.
Higher refining margins in Canada on lower crude cost and improved marketing margins in Australia were partially offset by lower refining margins in Asia where weve seen weaker demand and ample supply.
Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $60 million principally for maintenance repairs and transportation.
The other bar includes a number of unrelated items including favorable year-end LIFO impact partially offset by lower trading results and an unfavorable swing in foreign exchange impact.
Slide 13 covers all other fourth quarter net charges were $312 million compared to $522 million in the third quarter a decrease of $210 million between periods.
A favorable swing in corporate tax items resulted in a $162 million benefit to earnings while corporate costs were $48 million lower this quarter.
For the full year this segment had net charges of $1.6 billion putting us in the lower end of our $400 million to $500 million guidance range per quarter.
We believe this quarterly guidance range for the all other segment is still appropriate going forward.
With that Im going to turn it back over to John for a few comments on 2014.
John?  Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 14 in December you recall we announced a $39.8 billion capital program for 2014 $2 billion lower than 2013.
We expect 2013 to be a relative peak spending year and 2014 to represent the peak year for LNG spend as our two Australian LNG projects move closer to production.
This program also supports our large deepwater Gulf of Mexico developments as well as ongoing development and ramp up activities in the Permian Basin in the U.S.
Were also investing in longer term projects in Kazakhstan Canada and West Africa which will drive profitable growth for many years.
Importantly planned spending is directed towards our profitable base business assets throughout the world and well this includes significant activity across several producing regions in North America as well as in Thailand and Indonesia amongst others.
Our downstream investments for 2014 are geared toward enhancing reliability and energy efficiency feedstock flexibility and the production of cleaner transportation fuels.
Were also funding major capital projects related to our chemicals business.
Our Oronite expansion project in Singapore is planned to startup in 2014 and well begin ramping up construction activities on the U.S.
Gulf Coast petrochemicals project which recently reached FID and is planned to startup in 2017.
We have an attractive portfolio of investment opportunities which will continue to fund in a disciplined fashion to grow enterprise value and fund shareholder distributions.
On Slide 15 our net production outlook for 2014 is 2.61 million barrels oil equivalent per day based on average Brent price of $109 per barrel which was the same average price as 2013.
This outlook does not assume OPEC curtailments material and security or other market impacts.
Our full year estimate for 2014 includes modest production ramp-ups at Angola LNG Papa-Terra and in the Permian Basin.
These are expected to be partially offset by declines from our base producing assets where we continue to assume an average decline rate of approximately 4%.
Our focus is on managing the decline rate related to our base business which is performing very well and on executing with excellence those developments which are expected to add material production volumes in the years ahead.
Our long-term production growth outlook is compelling profitable and will add value.
It is driven by five large projects; Angola LNG Jack/St.
Malo Big Foot Gorgon and Wheatstone which in total will add over 500 000 barrels per day of net new production to Chevron at full capacity.
In 2015 well see the start-up of Gorgon and Big Foot and additional ram up of Jack/St.
Malo.
We look forward to providing more details on our key projects and production outlook at our upcoming Security Analyst Meeting.
Thank you.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I appreciate you listening in this morning and your interest in the company.
Were ready to take some questions.
Keep in mind that we do have a full queue.
So please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up if necessary.
I will do our best to get all of your questions answered.
Jonathan please open the line for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Doug Terreson from ISI Group.
Your question please.
Good morning everybody.
Hey Doug.
Good morning.
My question is about capital discipline and specifically the decline in returns on capital to around 14% which I think places that result at its lowest level in many years.
And on this point John you talked about the importance of value creation and you always do actually but also making hard choices in capital allocation when you were in New York recently.
And so while I recognize that you have to complete investment in these megaprojects I want to see what the Company is doing to address this issue from a corporate planning perspective or whatever you deem relevant to ensure that this value creation process is optimized.
Sure.
Good question Doug.
Thanks.
We did enough capital program as I said of $39.8 billion.
Its a significant program and it largely reflects the good queue that we have.
When I reflect on our company and our capital discipline you know we have a wide lead in profit per barrels some $5 a barrel not just over the majors but over independents and others.
So we have had discipline over the years and the projects that we have in the queue we think will also add to earnings going forward.
Now its true that the cycle time for some of the projects that I mentioned those big five that I mentioned is long and so there is capital that is not yet on production in the queue.
Notwithstanding that we actually expect our upstream business to have the second highest return on capital employed this year despite that high level of pre-productive capital.
So I think weve got good discipline on these projects.
We got a good record of doing it.
Now inside the company were cognizant that there has been a significant increase in the cost of goods and services across the industry.
Since the middle of last decade costs have more than doubled and there is some hotspots around the world.
So were looking very closely at the projects that are in our portfolio.
Naturally were going to continue with the projects that are under construction but youve seen a couple of areas where we have made some choices.
The Rosebank project in the North Sea we think thats a good project a good resource but cost came in just higher than what we felt were appropriate.
So were taking a hard look at that project reviewing it seeing if we can make the economics more attractive.
The Vietnam gas project we worked  we and frankly Unocal before us worked for more than a decade to try to make that project a success havent been able to do that just yet.
So I think that were really doing what we can.
Id tell you also in the U.S.
weve scaled back our spending on gas as you might expect.
So the volume that youll see from gas in the U.S.
will be less than we might have planned a few years ago.
The only area where were spending on gas in any appreciable amount is in the Marcellus where we have a carry that enables us to continue to spend.
So all of those things plus outreach that our employees are making with vendors and contractors and frankly just belt-tightening in general which is a big focus for us right now and will be a message that Ill be sending in my worldwide conference call with employees in a couple of weeks are the kinds of things that were working on.
Okay those are all great points.
And so let me just ask one more.
So have you guys quantified what your level of pre-productive capital is however you guys define it and how that compares to normal today John?  We do and Ill make you a promise that Pat Yarrington will show you a fair amount of information on that when we come back in March.
But Doug its at a high level right now.
Sure.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your question please.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
If I could take one and my follow-up please.
I cant hear you Doug.
Doug you've cut out.
Hi.
Can you hear me now?  If you speak up.
Yes I will try and speak up sorry.
So John your production trajectory for 2014 I think has taken some folks by surprise in terms of the  [the price is] [ph] basically flat year-over-year.
Has something slipped or changed there or are Street expectations just wrong or can you basically give us an idea when you expect the inflection point in production? And I've got a follow-up please.
Sure.
As I indicated our production guidance for 2014 is 2.61 and really theres couple of things to talk about.
One our base business has been performing very well.
So were continuing to invest in the base and frankly weve seen some declines that are less than wed expect but we do use our standard 4% decline estimate for the base business the underlying business for 2014.
Beyond that its a function of ramp-ups that we have on major capital projects and there are really a couple that fall into that category.
One is Angola LNG and the other is Papa-Terra in Brazil that Petrobras operates.
Weve got a couple of wells on in Papa-Terra but the ramp-up takes place.
Its really a two-part project that will take place over the course of this year and we take operator guidance in setting that estimate.
Angola LNG ramp-up is less than we would have expected a couple of years ago and this might be a good time for me to talk about that project.
Our share of production from Angola LNG is 60 000 barrels a day net at full capacity.
Weve had about five cargoes last year.
I think we've had a couple that we've lifted this year but weve been working on some technical issues on the front-end of the plant with the dehydration unit.
Remember this is an associated gas project meaning there is variable feed coming from different facilities.
Weve had some technical issues on the front-end of that plant.
And so our expectation is it will not ramp up to full capacity this year.
It will likely be more like 30 000 barrels a day if we run it about half capacity this year with the full fix in the first part of 2015 and then ramp up to full capacity after that.
So that is probably one of the factors that might be influencing the estimates that are out there.
Beyond that weve got Jack/St.
Malo which were very pleased with which well be starting up late in the year.
Obviously you only get a partial years production from a later in the year start up but that will start up nicely.
So I think its more likely that the inflection point will come next year than this year.
I don't think thats inconsistent with the guidance that we gave.
If you go back to 2010 in the sense that we said that we would grow roughly 1% between 2010 and 2014 and then 4% to 5% a year thereafter ramping up to our larger target.
But understanding the performance of LNG has impacted 2014 to be sure.
Thanks for the answer John.
My follow-up very quickly to Pat is a move to a normal balance sheet structure Pat it looks to us that your cash burn is about $10 billion a year.
Is it realistic that you add $30 billion by the  to your balance sheet by the time you hit your targets in 2017? And I will leave it there.
Thanks.
Doug that will all be a function really of what realizations are whats happening from the crude market standpoint fundamentally.
But I mean if you assume no significant change from where we are today from a realization standpoint and acknowledge what the production growth will look like and what cash from operations could look like we would expect to add additional borrowings to our balance sheet of reasonable size over the next couple of years.
So we are starting with a very low leverage rate 12% right now and theres a lot of capacity that we can utilize to not only fund the business activity reinvest in the business but also continue on with strong shareholder distributions.
Let me offer a couple other comments if I could on that one.
Our cash C&amp;E this last year in 2013 was about $39 billion.
That included some acquisitions.
We expect fewer this year and the cash spend is about $35 billion this year.
In addition asset sales were relatively low last year.
We expect modestly higher asset sales going forward.
Were doing some rationalizing in the midstream business part of the ordinary course of business and we have a few things were looking at in the upstream portfolio.
Remember most of the cash drain youre referring to is planned orderly to restore balance sheet back to a more leveraged structure and is largely a function of share repurchases that we're putting in place.
Our intention as we start ramping up production of course is to get to a point where we not only cover C&amp;E but also cover the dividend.
Our policy on dividend has been to grow that dividend commensurate with the ongoing pattern of earnings and cash flow over the long-term.
So were in this period where we have relatively high spend.
Were generating good cash but we expect cash generation to increase and as we go forward we expect the cash consumption to attenuate as we roll into higher levels of production.
Thanks.
I appreciate the answers.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Your question please.
Yes.
Good morning and thanks for your time.
Just coming more I guess back to the U.S.
I mean your CapEx in the upstream and your outlook is sort of relatively flat.
I mean I appreciate there are some really big projects in the Gulf of Mexico.
But you have this emerging shale position not just in the U.S.
also obviously up in Canada.
Maybe talk about why you are not getting after that more aggressively? I actually saw some really good well results from you guys down in the Permian this morning? Well you want us to spend more Ed? In that area potentially but what stops you or? Well a couple of facts.
I don't know what weve got a couple of different shale plays going on in Canada.
One is in Duvernay which is liquids oriented and weve drilled it.
I think were on our 13<sup>th</sup> well up there and have had some good success and we are looking to develop that at a good pace.
Our approach to the shale is to make sure we understand what we got and to plan in orderly fashion so that we can keep cost in line commensurate with the production that we can generate.
So I do agree with you.
We had some good results from those wells.
The second of course is the Horn River and Liard Basin which is gas to support the Kitimat project which  well there will be additional drilling in the Liard this year to delineate those holdings and of course that production would be associated over time with an LNG project at Kitimat.
And I was also referring to the Permian obviously where you have got a huge acreage position.
It just feels that if that was in the hands of an independent theyd be gung ho after it whereas it feels that perhaps due to corporate CapEx constraints you guys or maybe delineation are going a little bit slower.
Well I know thats what the independents tell you.
What I would tell you is we work very hard to put together a really sustainable and capital-efficient plan over time.
Having said that we drilled some 460 gross wells in 2013 which is more than we had planned.
We got 26 rigs working in the basins there.
About half of those actually are non-op rigs as well as our own rigs.
And I think youll see that we are ramping up activity pretty nicely.
In March George will show you some charts that will give you a better feel for that but I think youll see a nice ramp up both in the number of rigs and in production that will come from that area.
Remember one thing we do try to be efficient with our capital.
We are focused on making good returns and so we do want to be sure that we can do it in a low-cost fashion and do it in a way that will generate the kind of financial results overall that will keep us leading.
I mentioned earlier that we lead in earnings per barrel relative to the majors but we also have a big lead in return on capital and return per barrel relative to a lot of the independents as well.
So we may not go as fast as some of the independents but I think its the right way for us to move forward.
Thanks John.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Your question please.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
John and Pat maybe I have two questions both of them is somewhat higher level.
One is from a capital allocation standpoint.
Obviously the last several years the Company has been going after a lot of the legacy long-term megaprojects which is great once that they compete.
But from a portfolio management standpoint is there a point that you want to say maybe balance the portfolio a little bit between whether from a production standpoint or capital standpoint between the megaprojects which obviously have a higher risk in terms of the underlying execution and also somewhat binary in nature comparing to a more steady maybe shorter-term projects? Thats the first question.
Okay.
Well certainly we do quite a bit of work Paul on portfolio management to do just as you described.
In fact we tried to balance the portfolio in many ways but certainly one is the balance between the investments in long-term projects and short-term money.
We consciously took on some projects that we felt were opportunistic and ready to go with Gorgon Wheatstone Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot.
And so we knew that we had a heavy period of spend for those projects but at the same time weve really maintained a very strong base business spend program.
About 30% of our spend goes into smaller capital projects and you make a good point because I just for example just happen to review our performance on small capital projects within the last couple of weeks and the returns are quite good.
These are typically incremental projects incremental drilling projects to existing assets.
And so we do maintain that spend.
In fact the discretionary spend that we have is in that area and we have announced the strong capital program for 2014 and my alternative was largely to cut those base business spend and we decided not to do that.
So we tried to balance both those factors so that we get strong returns on capital over time and get good growth and weve been able to do that.
Despite all the capital thats in the queue we still from the numbers that we have we think well maintain our second position on return on capital employed.
John on [indiscernible] is there a ratio over the next five or 10 years that you want to have 50% of the capital on the legacy megaproject and 50% on the smaller and the base business? Or there is not even a ratio that you guys consider or look at?  Well we will have a higher  I think weve advertised before that we are moving toward a higher percentage of legacy what we call legacy or very low declining project so that as we get toward the end of the decade well be at about 60%.
So things like Gorgon Wheatstone Tengiz Angola LNG and the like even some of our low decline assets such as California heavy oil activity is very low decline and were moving to a higher level.
The plus side of that is as you get those on line the amount of spend that it takes to maintain them tends to be fairly low.
So we are moving to a higher level of what youd call legacy spend projects and I think they will deliver a lot of cash and stability for years to come once we get them all on line.
Okay.
The second question is that over the last couple years that you have been borrowing  or actually now since you have been borrowing money to fund a buyback and as the balance sheet return to more normal at what point what would you say fixed financial ways such as net debt to capital or interest cap [ph] ratio the company will start to reconsider the buyback whether or that you would continue to borrow money to fund it? Ill let Pat talk a little bit about our philosophy on debt and the rating agencies and how much capacity weve got.
Right.
And Paul we said for a long time now that obviously from a cash distribution standpoint the priority is on dividend.
Secondly we invest in the business and cover up the strength of our balance sheet from a pension funding standpoint and that kind of thing so the third priority.
And then finally its share repurchases that become kind of the surplus use of cash and we have also said several times here now that we were in an unusual net cash position for several years now.
We will be moving into a net debt position.
We have now done that.
As I look forward we still have a tremendous amount of borrowing capacity available to us.
We believe that were very confident in the future cash generation from these projects once they come on line.
And so we can see our steady state here from a share distribution standpoint on share repurchases for a while.
We also see intensions to continue to grow the dividend.
We have a lot of flexibility in our balance sheet and I dont think that there is a consideration at least in terms of steady macro condition that would suggest that we would be turning our share repurchases at this time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Your question please.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Hey Evan.
John on the CapEx I know that the organic cash CapEx exceeded your guidance by about $2 billion.
As you assess that 2014 CapEx budget what gives you confidence that you wont experience similar inflation? I mean is there anything different any protections conservatisms versus what happened as you  versus how you asses 2014? And then I have a follow-up.
Thanks.
Our number  taking out the money for acquisitions that we had last year the amount that went over the budget I think was lower than that.
So I dont know that we disclosed the exact dollars of those acquisitions but its somewhat lower than that.
So I dont think wed be having the conversation about capital had we not had those one-time acquisitions.
But candidly if we have a supplement to a project were going to fund it in that year.
In general we manage our budget pretty tightly and I have no reason to believe at this point that well exceed the $39.8 billion that we put out there.
Were sensitive to it youre sensitive to it.
So we will be watching it very closely.
Similar and maybe this is something for the Analyst Day.
As obviously organic CapEx cash CapEx trend here is flat and you mentioned a peak LNG spend in 2014.
There are a lot of your peers that are forecasting a peak CapEx.
So do you see a similar overall trend based upon your current slate of projects? And then maybe secondly this is the other side of the question.
Its unclear what the world looks like in two three five years let alone the opportunities in the asset market M&amp;A market resource market et cetera.
I mean do you see any real ability to forecast a longer-term CapEx figure? And I will leave it at that.
Well its a good question.
One of the reasons  and Ive told you and others before one of the reasons we havent put out long-term capital forecast is because its very hard to predict oil prices foreign exchange local content requirements cost of goods and services.
What we have been fairly good at understanding is the competitive nature of our project.
So when we put out long-term production forecast weve had a view that  we know the world is going to need energy we know that we got projects that will compete because of the resource and general nature of the project.
And so weve been  frankly we stepped out quite a bit in putting out a seven-year production forecast and I feel pretty good about that.
It was harder to predict what the exact spend would be.
And thats part of the reason Ive been reticent to give a lot of guidance going out beyond two or three years.
I know directionally the level of our activity and we do balance that but I don't know what the macro environment will bring fully.
And once we get projects that are under construction were obviously going to continue them.
So I have a pretty good feel obviously for what spending will be this year and I have a pretty good feel for what spend is going to be in 2015 and 2016 and thats why weve given you this flattening comment where $40 billion this year will be in that same range give or take for the next couple of years.
Beyond that the macro conditions could dictate something different.
We do try to be opportunistic when it comes to bringing resources into the portfolio.
Last year I think we brought in some terrific resources into our portfolio at a good price.
As you know we supplemented our acreage in New Mexico in the Permian area.
We brought in some good high-quality assets that we referenced earlier in the Duvernay.
We think the Kitimat resource is a terrific one for the long-term.
Argentina as far as we know its the best shale outside of North America.
So we took the opportunity to bring those into the portfolio and we dont see as many opportunities in that space this year for example.
Thats why I made the comment I did earlier about spend but over time we are in depleting resource business and you do need to add to the portfolio.
Were careful how we do that.
Thats how we got to our leading position in earnings per barrel and well continue to be careful in how we do that going forward.
Maybe I could slip in just one last one on the asset disposal side.
I know you mentioned in a response or your comments the midstream sale process monetization.
I mean any update or any change in your thoughts there given youre growing unconventional base and a likely associated midstream CapEx over time? Any change or whether that would be an outright sale or potentially forming an MLP? And I will leave it at that.
Yes.
In fact I will say there is a little bit of a shift.
Let me be clear.
Were not in shrink to grow mode were not resetting the base were not doing anything like that.
Thats not what were doing.
But just as weve done in the downstream where we pruned the portfolio I think Mike and his team has sold some $8 billion in assets over the last six seven years and those have been done in a very nice pace way to get good value.
Were in the process right now of making some sales in our midstream business for example.
You referenced MLPs our approach  were not fond of the MLP structure as a way for us to hold assets but we can sell into MLPs and get that value.
And so we have been selling pipelines and well continue to do so for pipelines where theyre not critical to our upstream or downstream business n other words more merchant type lines.
We are selling lines.
Youve probably seen some commentary in the press to do that.
We think we can get good value there.
Similarly we do have a lifecycle for asset sales in the upstream and so there are some sales that are possible there.
Our approach is not to talk a lot about the specific assets for commercial reasons but I would say youll see more asset sale activity over the next two or three years in the upstream than youve seen over the last few years.
Certainly theres been a lot of chatter about some leases that were selling in Nigeria.
Those we think will bring to a closure later this year and get good value for those.
And I would say overall in the context of some of the big headline numbers others have said our sales will be modest.
But we will have a little bit more in the area of asset sales going forward.
Appreciate.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Your question please.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks very much for taking the question.
You mentioned the ongoing reduction in domestic gas drilling and yet ironically thats the one part of your domestic production thats actually been up for the last I guess three four quarters.
Why do you think there is this disparity where domestic gas is rising but oil and liquids have been in decline? Well the only  the area where weve been investing in the U.S.
has been in the Marcellus and its a function of the carry.
So the volume increases that you are seeing you recall we acquired Atlas Energy and some other tuck-on and we came in with $1.3 billion carry where one as we go forward were funding a disproportionately low percentage of the cost for the revenue that were getting.
That carry is now down to $500 million.
And our strategy has been to really build up a factory model get our full costs in line so that as we end that carry three or four years from now that well be in a good competitive position on a cost per MCF basis once we get through that carry.
In the meantime we can afford to do the drilling.
We obviously  wells that are drilled when you are funding 25% of the cost and getting 60% of revenue I think that the ratio is pretty good.
Inc.</strong>  Sure.
And then a follow up on Kitimat I think youve said in the past year your aim is to reach FID this year.
Is that still the case and what are the key question marks that would impede that from happening?  Well we're doing site clearance now.
One of the things weve learned on big land-based projects is get your infrastructure in order and housing and things of that sort.
So that's what we are doing.
We are pacing this project very carefully as you would expect and what we have said is that FID will be entirely a function of gas contracts and that allow us to develop the opportunity and provide energy to Asian markets at a fair price.
And it's no secret that there is a lot in the media on that subject right now.
We are actively working with gas customers today.
My view hasn't changed since the view Joe Geagea described to you last year which is LNG projects are expensive whether in West Canada West Africa or East Africa or the Gulf Coast of the U.S.
or Australia.
And we're going to need robust pricing in order to make those project go and so there are some projects that may be built on existing facilities in the Gulf Coast of the U.S.
that have gone to FID and well add some capacity that may be slightly lower cost.
But once you get to Brownfield whether its Gulf Coast or elsewhere I think we're going to need either oil link pricing or pricing that very clearly will give us the kind of return we need.
So I guess what I am saying is FID will be a function of gas contracts.
Inc.</strong>  All right.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Allen Good from Morningstar.
Your question please.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
John you mentioned a little bit on the Downstream sales and restructuring.
Just a question on that.
Is that business currently sized right for Chevron and do you see any other opportunity there to potentially reduce capital employed on the downtown side?  Well our downstream business if you look at the direction weve gone we actually have done quite a bit of pruning over the last two years.
Weve basically gotten out of the disconnected marketing or marketing is disconnected from our refining system and then we did get out of our refinery in Europe that we think was very well timed.
And so whats that left us with is a strong U.S.
business with good positions along the Gulf Coast and through the West Coast of the U.S and then a strong business in Asia.
We think  we always take a look at the portfolio but in general I think our Downstream portfolio is in pretty good shape.
I might have told you a few years ago that inland refineries small refineries would be tough but frankly those have been some of the most profitable with the one in Salt Lake and Burnaby British Columbia.
So I feel pretty good about the portfolio overall in the Downstream.
The capital that we are putting in the Downstream business is really geared towards the chemicals business now.
Weve got a base oil plant thats coming up in Pascagoula that will make us the largest top tier base oil producer in the world.
Weve got our share of the petrochemical complex that we're building with Phillips 66 through Chevron Phillips Chemical Company thats a $6 billion project.
Our share is $3 billion.
We think that is going to be a terrific project.
As far as we know we are ahead of other projects in the area.
We have got the permits and have gone to FID.
Overall we think we can generate mid-teens kinds of returns in this business and so we think it is a good one.
Yes I guess on the chemicals I mean you mentioned a product upcoming and certainly that is a very good portfolio there.
But I guess relative to the size of Chevron total it's still relatively a small piece.
Do you think the market is accurately crediting you for that business? And if not do you think there is way potentially to monetize that through  I dont know as with Phillips 66 or spinning that off separately or is your plan really just to hold out for the long-term and then continue to build that up?  Our plan is to hold that.
Its about 15% of our capital.
We disclosed the segment information.
I think you guys have sharp enough pencils to be able to figure out what it brings to us.
But more importantly the math there is some linkages in the business that I think are very important.
I don't think splitting up the business makes you an independent.
We have some very significant linkages to the downstream business and Ill give you just a couple just as for instance.
Southern California our El Segundo Refinery weve got heavy crude going out of San Joaquin Valley.
Weve just augmented some facilities at the El Segundo Refinery specifically so it can take more San Joaquin Valley crude.
We think that's a good synergistic type of investment.
Over the years we've had high mercury crude in Asia and weve put in specific facilities to be able to capture value benefit associated with that.
I think when you look in the middle of the country today I think it makes all the sense in the world to be an integrated company.
Youve had tremendous volatility in crude pricing and youre either capturing the refinery or youre capturing on the upstream side just depending upon how infrastructure moves and were capturing that in Salt Lake.
So I frankly think that the integration story for us is pretty straightforward.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks for the comments.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Your question please.
Yes.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I guess a lot of this stuff has been hit.
I just wanted to kind of follow-up on I guess Q4 in the upstream in the U.S.
and if that had any implications for how we should look forward I understand on the production side as we modeled it.
The realization for prices looked okay.
I know as I went through the  or as you went through the presentation it showed realizations down.
I was wondering is that a cost issue realization sort of a net realization as opposed to just a price realization and if so what kind of occurred in the fourth quarter is that one-time issue or recurring issue? Any help you can provide there.
So Roger I can help with that.
This is Jeff.
It's not a net realization.
It's a price realization and it was consistent with the markers that you see in the market for the fourth quarter.
Okay.
So I mean more or less what occurred in the fourth quarter we should look at as being an issue going forward I mean as crude prices move around that will change but just the market conditions.
That's exactly right.
Okay.
And then as we look forward into 2014 especially at the end of the year say Jack/St.
Malo starts up you got continued growth probably in California.
Should we look at that as helping out the realization story in the U.S.
North America? Again I guess it depends on your view of prices.
So we are out of our U.S.
production we're about a third weighted to California prices as Big Foot comes on the weighting in the Gulf of Mexico may increase somewhat.
There's not a lot of growth in the California business and at the same time we have the ramp-up in the Permian.
So it really goes back to what your view of the different markers are in those three separate regions.
Sure.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then any additional update you can provide as you look at the Vaca Muerta kind of the drilling plans 2014 and 2015 when would we potentially see anything on the production side.
I know you made the comment its a great shale.
Just wondering when would we maybe see something tangible that we can start to fix on?  Well I think youll start to see it going forward from here.
Were producing 16 000 barrels a day gross.
Thats 100% number.
And so one of the reasons I made the comment about it being a good investment is theres lots of oil infrastructure there now.
So its right in the middle of an oil producing area.
YPF is doing a nice job.
Were sending in some technical and other people to support them but we got 15 rigs running.
We think over time that it will get up to 19 and so were optimistic that well see continued growth.
Ill just say we just recently closed the transaction.
So its very early days at this point but its a  theres probably more to come but you should start to see benefits in production here before too long.
Okay.
Thank you.
All right.
Next question? Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Hutton from RBC Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Good afternoon from London.
Actually my first question is a follow-up from the last one which is about these liquid realizations in the U.S.
and you mentioned that these are in line with the benchmarks.
Well from what I can see when I follow the trend that is right when youre looking against the third quarter but the third quarter have the highest discount between your average realization and WTI since the 2008 peak.
So is it two quarters when we've had discounts of the order of something like $10 shortfall.
And so I guess I'm asking the same question in a different way.
Is that something we should also expect to see during the course of 2014 until you start to get more production out of the Gulf of Mexico from Jack/St.
Malo? And then I had a follow-up which is actually my original question.
I dont know we got anything fundamental for you.
Maybe right for Jeff to follow-up with you offline to see if there is something in the markers that were not covering here but there are some lags in pricing that take place in the U.S.
But if you wouldnt mind Peter maybe well follow-up offline and see if we can get to those specifics.
Be glad to.
In that case can I just  the question I was going to ask originally which is on the reserve replacement rate and exploration.
I think you mentioned 85% this year which is down on the full year and one year is not a trend.
But were there any areas where you have been focusing and didn't come in the way that you had expected? And realistically sort of where the focus is for this year and can you give a figure of the budget for exploration spent in 2014? Please.
Yes actually the irony this is a very good year for reserve replacement relative to what we had in our plan because we have sort of base business type activity infill drilling and the like developments and additions revisions off the existing field and we had a very good year in that area.
What we didnt have was a significant number of major capital projects that went to FID and thats why this number tends to be lumpy in any given year.
So well on an ongoing basis it was less than replacing 100% of production.
Thats why we quote the three year and five year numbers which are 100% or higher.
So I think thats really my thought for you on reserves.
Exploration this year is about $3 billion to $3.2 billion type of number this year.
Ill tell you one of the challenges weve had last couple of years is getting all our high impact wells drilled.
Weve got a great queue but we frankly in the Gulf of Mexico weve been drilling so many development wells that we got to queue thats built up there and so were looking forward to I think weve got 14 or so high impact wells which we define as 100 million barrel or more prospects and we look forward to getting them drilled here over the next few years.
But little over 3 billion is the target for the year.
Thank you very much.
I think we have time for one more question? One more question Robert.
Our final question comes from the line of Robert Kessler from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Your question please.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Hi thanks for fitting me in and I look forward to the Analyst Day where I am sure we will go through more detail.
But in the meantime I wanted to ask you for kind of an update on your Australia LNG cost and exposure to exchange rate.
We still see volatility there.
I know you are of course further through the spend on Gorgon at 76% which would imply less exposure to the exchange rate on the surface.
But I imagine more of the spend now is local labor which I am assuming is priced in Australian dollars.
So just the latest sort of leverage to that exchange rate if you don't mind and then any rethinking of your plans not to I guess hedge foreign exchange going forward? Yes interesting question.
Maybe the comment I will make we have had a rollercoaster on foreign exchange in Australia as you point out.
When we went to Final Investment Decision back in 2009 the exchange rate was roughly $0.86 and it ramped up as high I think 105 or so.
And that was part of the reason that we supplemented the project.
Our view at that time was not to hedge foreign exchange because we felt there have been a pretty strong correlation between oil prices and their currency and so we felt that our overall portfolio was pretty well hedged.
And I think that proved to be a pretty wise decision.
When we went to FID on Wheatstone we did so and have assumed a parity exchange rate.
So thats a $29 billion project when we assume parity.
This year our spend on the two projects is roughly $10 billion and we estimate that 70% 75% of that spend is in Australian dollar.
So with the Australian dollar tracking under $0.90 now thats a positive for us going forward.
Were out a little something on this so were benefiting from it right now and we dont do any hedging and I dont anticipate that we will going forward.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.</strong> Great.
Nice to see it swing the other way and thanks for the update.
You bet thank you.
Okay thank you all.
In closing let me say we appreciate everyones participation today on the call.
I would like to thank the analyst for asking the good questions in this morning session.
Were looking forward to seeing you in March and Im sure youll have lot more questions and well enjoy the material well be presenting then.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevrons fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevrons First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you Jonathan.
Welcome to Chevrons first quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today is Jeff Gustavson General Manager for Investor Relations.
We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevrons website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement on Slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The companys first quarter earnings were $4.5 billion or $2.36 per diluted share.
Results are consistent with our earlier guidance where we highlighted specific negative impacts associated with foreign exchange and selected asset impairments and related charges which totaled approximately $500 million for the quarter or $0.26 per share.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 12%.
Our debt ratio at the end of March was approximately 13%.
Turning to Slide 4.
Cash generated from operations was $8.4 billion during the first quarter.
Cash capital expenditures were $8.5 billion.
At quarter end our cash balances totaled $16.2 billon giving us a net debt position of $6.9 billion.
On Slide 5 this week Chevrons Board of Directors declared a $1.07 per share quarterly common dividend payable in mid-June.
This represents an 8% annualized payout increase.
Since 2004 we have grown the dividend by a compound annual rate in excess of 10% which leads the competitor groups.
In the first quarter we repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares.
In the second quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.
We are committed to competitive consistent and growing shareholder distributions.
This demonstrates the importance we placed on balancing long-term investor return objectives achieved through reinvestment in the business with near-term return objectives achieved through distributions.
It also reflects the strength of our balance sheet our strong portfolio and our confidence in the cash generation potential of our growth projects.
Turning to the next slide.
Weve incorporated two new slides into the presentation this quarter which provide year-over-year comparisons consistent with our earnings press release.
The first shown on Slide 6 compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year.
First quarter 2014 earnings were $4.5 billion approximately $1.7 billion lower than first quarter 2013 results.
Adverse foreign exchange movements accounted for $325 million or 20% of the overall decline.
Youll recall that foreign exchange movements for us are largely book translation effects with very little cash flow impact.
Upstream earnings were down $1.6 billion.
In addition to unfavorable foreign exchange impacts of about $225 million the deterioration reflected lower crude oil production and liquids realizations and higher tax effects DD&amp;A and exploration expenses.
Downstream results were essentially flat.
And the other segment reflected the impairment of a mining asset which resulted in an approximately $265 million absolute impact during the quarter and was offset to a large degree by lower corporate expenses.
Turning to Slide 7.
Ill now compare results for the first quarter of 2014 with the fourth quarter of 2013.
First quarter earnings were $418 million lower than fourth quarter results.
Upstream earnings were down $545 million with adverse foreign exchange movements accounting for two-thirds of this decline.
The timing of listings was the second significant contributor to upstream quarter-on-quarter deterioration.
Downstream results increased by $320 million with nearly equal improvements noted in the U.S.
and the international segments.
The current quarter had favorable impacts from lower operating expenses stronger chemical results and positive foreign exchange movements all of which more than offset the adverse volume effects of a heavier turnaround schedule.
The variance in the other bar largely reflects the impairment of a mining asset partially offset by lower corporate expenses.
Jeff will now take us through the comparisons by segment.
Jeff? Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 8.
Our U.S.
upstream earnings for the first quarter were $109 million higher than fourth quarters results.
Higher realizations increased earnings by $130 million mainly due to the rise in U.S.
natural gas prices.
Overall liquids realizations also rose in large part reflecting crude pricing strength on the West Coast.
Lower production volumes primarily in the Gulf of Mexico reduced earnings by $50 million.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including the absence of year-end LIFO losses and lower exploration expenses partially offset by higher DD&amp;A.
Turning to Slide 9.
International upstream earnings were $654 million lower than last quarters results.
Realizations decreased earnings by $50 million consistent with the decline in Brent prices between quarters.
The timing of liftings across multiple countries decreased earnings by $235 million.
Year-to-date we are approximately 4% undirected which as you know should reverse in the coming quarters.
Lower exploration expenses increased earnings by $190 million mainly driven by fewer exploration well write-offs and overall lower geological and geophysical expenses across multiple locations.
An unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects decreased earnings by $355 million.
The first quarter had a loss of about $55 million compared to a gain of $300 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
The tax in other bar reflects unfavorable tax effects many of which were non-income related.
This quarters results includes several non-operational items mainly impairments which negatively impacted upstream segment earnings by about $150 million.
Adjusting for these effects our unit earnings for the quarter would have been approximately $20 per barrel.
The reconciliation of non-U.S.
GAAP earnings can be found in the appendix of this slide presentation.
The upstream segment was also negatively impacted by FX effects in the timing of liftings both of which are normally transitory in nature.
Slide 10 summarizes the change in Chevrons worldwide net oil equivalent production between the first quarter 2014 and the fourth quarter 2013.
Production increased by 12 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Major capital projects contributed 21 000 barrels per day related to higher volumes at Angola LNG and the ramp-up associated with the Papa-Terra field offshore Brazil.
Shale and tight resources growth contributed 12 000 barrels per day driven by production increases from the Midland and Delaware Basins in the Permian as well as continued production ramp up from the Vaca Muerta Shale in Argentina.
The base business in other bar includes the impact of normal field declines and weather-related disruptions primarily due to extremely low temperatures in Kazakhstan partially offset by lower production downtime related to several assets.
Slide 11 is the second to two new slides incorporated into the presentation this quarter and compares the change in Chevrons worldwide net oil equivalent production between the first quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of last year.
Production was 57 000 barrels per day lower than the same period a year ago.
Growing volumes from our shale and tight resources in the Permian and the Marcellus regions in the U.S.
and the Vaca Muerta Shale in Argentina increased first quarter production by 37 000 barrels per day.
Major capital projects contributed 23 000 barrels per day driven primarily by production growth from Angola LNG and Papa-Terra in Brazil.
Production was impacted by external constraints related to the very cold temperatures in Kazakhstan as well as lower demand in Thailand due to a lighting strike which damaged a customers gas processing plant in the third quarter of 2013.
The base business in other bar includes normal field declines along with other unrelated impacts.
Our base decline rate averaged less than 3% between quarters.
Turning to Slide 12.
U.S.
downstream results increased $157 million between quarters.
Planned turnarounds at our Richmond California and Pascagoula Mississippi refineries lowered volumes and decreased earnings by $85 million compared to last quarter.
More than offsetting these volume effects were benefits from lower OpEx worth $95 million and stronger chemicals results worth $80 million.
Stronger U.S.
chemicals results reflected higher margins for benzene olefins and polyolefins from our Chevron Phillips Chemical joint-venture.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items primarily higher gains on midstream asset sales partially offset by modestly lower realized margins particularly on the West Coast reflecting weak seasonal demand.
Moving to Slide 13.
International downstream earnings increased $163 million between quarters.
Reduced volumes from turnarounds at our Thailand and South Africa refineries decreased earnings by $75 million during the quarter.
Stronger Asia R&amp;M margins improved earnings by $70 million.
Increased demands drove refining crack spreads higher particularly for low gas and fuel oil.
In addition favorable price lag effects improved marketing margins.
Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $85 million about half of which is related to fuel costs.
Reduced foreign exchanges losses contributed about $70 million to earnings.
The first quarter had a loss of $28 million compared to a loss of $96 million in the fourth quarter.
The other bar includes a number of unrelated items including higher chemicals results partially offset by the absence of positive year-end LIFO inventory effects recorded in the fourth quarter.
With that Id now like to turn it back to Pat.
Okay Jeff.
Thanks.
Turning to Slide 14.
We hosted our security analyst meeting in early March where we provided a comprehensive update on the companys performance projects and future growth prospects.
At that time full information was not available for some of the competitor comparisons.
It is available now and the segment return on capital employed updates are shown here.
Our upstream return on capital employed for 2013 was just over 17%.
We have led the direct peer group for three years.
In addition our returns in 2013 were nearly twice the average returns of the larger E&amp;P group and 3% higher than the very best company in that group.
This speaks to the strength of our portfolio and is especially impressive considering our current levels of reinvestment which we expect will generate peer-leading volume growth going forward.
Our downstream return on capital employed turned to lower in 2013 consistent with the rest of the industry.
We delivered a 10% return and held the number two rank in the peer group our sustained position for the last four years.
Turning to Slide 15.
An updated information on 2013 upstream cash margins.
During 2013 with the $38 per barrel cash margins we were the best in the peer group by over $10 per barrel.
We continue to post the highest realizations in the peer group.
Our oil weighted portfolio is providing us with a lasting relative advantage.
Were also competitive on operating costs and have made sound investment decisions both of which support our strong cash margin positions.
Over the past four years the movement in our cash margin relative to the competition has been remarkable as shown on the chart on the left.
While weve gained $15 per barrel in cash margin our peers have gained only $8 on average.
Importantly we expect to maintain or even increase our cash margins going forward.
At our analyst meeting we used a Brent price of $110 per barrel as the basis for our forward cash flow and production projections.
We have received a number of questions around the selection of the $110 per barrel price and I want to be clear that this is not an internal price forecast but is simply the actual average Brent price over the 2011 to 2013 time period.
Using prior years actual pricing is the same methodology we have applied for several years now in our analyst presentations.
At this historical three-year average Brent price of $110 per barrel our cash margin is expected to increase to over $40 per barrel later this decade.
This is a critical part of our value proposition as the combination of strong volume growth and an accretive cash margin is expected to drive significant growth in our cash flow from operations over the next several years.
Turning to Slide 16.
Id like to provide a brief progress update on some of our major capital projects and other growth opportunities.
These are laid out across three growth themes: deepwater primarily in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico; LNG in particular our two large Australian projects; and shale and tight resource areas most notably the Permian Basin in the U.S.
and the Vaca Muerta Shale in Argentina.
Starting with the deepwater.
As noted last month the Jack/St.
Malo platform was moored in a title location earlier this year.
We continued installation and commissioning activities including final testing of flowlines and export lines.
The project is on-budget and is on-track for late startup in the fourth quarter of this year.
For Tubular Bells which is operated by Hess hook-up and commissioning is nearly 40% complete and startup is expected before year-end.
We also made significant progress at Big Foot during March.
The oil export pipeline has been installed and we are preparing to let the drilling module to the top sides later this month.
We expect startup to occur mid-2015.
Moving onto our LNG project.
We continue to make excellent progress at Gorgon which is now through April 80% complete.
The final two gas turbine generators have been installed and additional progress has been made on the LNG tanks jetty and other related infrastructure on the island.
All major 2014 milestones are on track and we expect plant startup and first gas in mid-2015.
For Wheatstone we are now at 33% complete.
Progress continues to be made at the plant site on the Wheatstone platform and with the offshore development drilling campaign.
Wheatstone remains on track to startup in late 2016.
Gorgon and Wheatstone are critical contributors to our future growth plans and we are pleased with the study progress being made on both of these projects.
As in prior quarters we have posted updated photos of both projects on our investor website.
I encourage you to take a look.
We also continued to make progress on our shale and tight resource developments which nicely complement our large major capital projects.
We have an active drilling and development program in the Permian Basin and we have drilled over 120 wells so far this year.
We continue to focus on capital and execution efficiency as well as the identification of sweet spots throughout our extensive acreage position in both the Midland and Delaware sub basins.
We are also making steady progress in the Vaca Muerta Share in Argentina progressing this years development program and we recently signed additional agreements for incremental explorations acreage in the play.
On Slide 17 I also like to touch on additional progress made elsewhere.
We reached final investment decision and received approval from the U.K.
government to proceed with the development of the Alder Field in the Central North Sea.
We achieved first projections in the Chirag Oil Project in Azerbaijan and acquired new exploration acreage in Myanmar.
In the downstream we achieved mechanical completions of our new base oil facility at our Pascagoula Mississippi refinery.
Once fully ramped up this increases our capacity and premium base oil by over 70% making Chevron the largest premium base oil producer in the world.
In addition Chevron Phillips Chemical 1-Hexene project as well as Oronite Singapore Expansion project recently achieved mechanical completions.
Lastly CPChem started construction on its new Gulf Coast Petrochemicals project which capitalizes on advanced feedstock source from shale gas in North America.
This project is expected to startup in 2017.
Now that concludes our prepared remarks.
I appreciate you listening in this morning and your interest in the company.
Were now ready to take some questions.
Please keep in mind that we do have a full queue so try to limit yourself to one question and to one follow-up if necessary.
Well do our best to get all of your questions answered.
Jonathan Id ask that you open up the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Your question please.
Hi good morning.
Hi Evan.
Pat thanks for the comments on the impairment as it clearly affects a clean comparison of your quarterly upstream profitability.
I missed it.
I know youve identified $400 million to $500 million of upstream impairments in your reconciliation.
I see $150 million.
And I thought I heard you mention $265 million.
Can you just talk me through those numbers once again please? Sure.
The interim update weve talked about a total of $400 million to $500 million in additional negative charges.
And that included foreign exchange and impairments but we did reference strongly in that total the mining component.
That mining component is $265 million.
Okay.
And then in the appendix slide that youll see there is also $150 million worth of upstream-related impairments in the international segment.
I see I got you on the total.
Thanks.
And I guess my second question just your net debt increased.
It was at $3.2 billion in the quarter smaller capital increase.
I mean I know you intent to bridge to 2015 and beyond when productive capital begins to drop and cash flow from new projects commences.
Where do you see the debt limit? Is it at AA level at the mid 20s and then what type of commodity price cushion do you forecast in crossing that bridge and maintaining current shareholder distributions? Thanks.
Okay.
Evan I think you referenced several questions there and we had a couple of really important words in there.
One you talked about bridging.
That is an important concept for us.
Our free cash flow was essentially neutral in this particular quarter.
And youre right so net debt did increase and that reference thats related to distribution to shareholders.
Were very comfortable with that pattern.
Its a pattern that weve had for the last few quarters.
Its the pattern that we could see continuing on here in 2014 and then when we get into 2015 and you begin to see these volumes pick-up and the cash flows pick-up then we get into a different state.
We do want to maintain the AA credit rating.
We have a lot of room between where our debt level is today at 13% and what would be necessary to even call that into jeopardy.
And by a lot I mean several billion dollars worth of additional borrowing capacity.
We do test our own plan against a low priced environment.
And I can tell you that against the low price environment even continuing on with the capital program that we have we are very comfortable with the distributions that were making even in a low priced environment and maintaining the AA.
Can you just share what that low price means? No we dont want to go that far.
Dont want to go that far.
So we do look at the overall capital position and financial position of the firm.
We test it against the oil prices and we feel comfortable and look where we are.
The other thing I would mention is that we do have  youll recall from the March presentation we are anticipating assets of proceeds of $10 billion over the next three years.
Right.
I appreciate.
Thanks for taking my questions Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Your question please.
Yes good morning and thanks for the extra disclosures in the presentation.
Just a question on cash flow I mean I think capital you said that $8 billion.
Its been running higher than that and volume is flattish in the macro environment and youve shouted out under-lifts and some extra tax but where there any other things that may have contributed to a slightly lower cash flow this quarter? Nothing of any substantial nature.
It was not  I mean with the under-lifting circumstance it is not a particularly strong U.S.
downstream quarter.
So I think there are some operational factors that really lead to the $8 billion cap generation $8.4 billion.
Good.
Thanks very much.
And then Gorgon youve said 80% complete.
Youve obviously just had the Analyst Day and said mid-2015 other people  perhaps even partners are saying perhaps more later in the year sort of 2016.
I dont want to get into a debate that he said she said but whats the critical path that you think in terms of getting Gorgon up mid-2015? What are the risks that youre now worried about as you get further into the final stages here? I think we have 20 of the 21 critical process modules for Train 1 and the infrastructure the common facilities infrastructure on the island.
The remaining train is due shortly will arrive shortly.
So it really becomes a process of the hook-up and commissioning.
And I think that is  weve just come through kind of weather period.
So were moving into good weather.
And so I think weather continues to be a risk.
And I think labor productivity continues to be a risk but both of those I mean those are aspects of this project that we have been managing now for 4.5 five years.
And so those are clearly on everybodys minds at in terms of managing through this.
And I want to reiterate that the project is on track.
Were aiming for and targeting that mid-2015 startup.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Your question please.
Hi good morning Jeff and Pat.
If I could kind of a big one and the small one.
The big one is you have an interesting number Pat which is on productive capital.
Could you update us on that number and talk a little bit about how you calculate the number so that we can perhaps use it to compare with other companies? And the follow-up is on Vaca Muerta and Ill ask you that due course.
Thanks.
Okay.
Well basically we just look at  it really is just assets under construction I mean definitionally.
Its assets in our work in progress account as a percentage of our total capital employed.
And the information that we provided back in March suggested that were at pretty high level predominantly because of the LNG projects that we have underway as well as the couple of Gulf of Mexico deepwater projects.
And we indicated that we saw that stepping down significantly over the next three year period of time.
And I also said verbally that we saw pretty important stair steps going from 2013 to 2014 and again to 15 and 16.
We didnt give actual numbers I dont really want to do that but that pattern that was on our slide back in March is still one that we hold to.
So as you see these projects come online they move out of that WIP account that work-in-progress account into a producing asset account.
My other question was that there was an actual numbers on productive capital.
And I guess if you could update us on capital employed or at least the last available number? Well year-end capital employed was about $171 billion.
And what we  right so the information we gave in the slide was a three-year average there.
Okay.
And what was the unproductive number? So Paul the three-year average 11 to 13 was in the low 40% range.
Right.
Moving down to the mid 30s range for 14 to 16 but thats the average 14 through 16 steps down each of those  in each of those years our historic average here maybe the high 20s.
Yes thats right.
So it was percentages around corner [ph].
It was percentages.
And we use the averages and you should  I think its fair to say that 2011 was the lowest of the three years.
2012 was the middle of the three years and 2013 was the highest of the three years but the three-year average there was at low 40s.
And then what were saying is 14 15 and 16 will reverse that pattern.
Yes understood.
Okay.
Thats helpful on that calculation.
And then if I can can you do a little bit more to strip out Argentina.
Youve kind of bundled it with Permian.
Okay.
And you plan to wish that still acquisition growth as opposed to organic growth? Thank you.
Yes.
Well so I think that in terms of the Vaca Muerta play itself were continuing to make progress there.
Our plan is to drill about 140 wells.
This year weve got about 17 18 or 19 rigs drilling at this particular point in time in production there.
On a growth basis is about 17 000 barrels a day.
Were encouraged by the well weve built both on cost and productivity but there is still  its early days.
There is still a long way to go but were encouraged so far.
Okay.
I think Ill take it offline on rig count in terms of volumes year-over-year.
Youre just obviously saying that on the variance youd bundled Vaca with Permian.
I see.
I misunderstood the question.
No thanks for the answer.
Absolutely that was just the follow-up really.
So year-over-year Paul we havent booked production in the first quarter of last year.
We started booking production in the fourth quarter.
So there is a contribution fourth quarter to first quarter but over quarters.
I mean it is acquisition related but if you want to talk more specifically about it just talk me offline.
Sure.
Thanks Jeff.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your question please.
Thanks.
Good morning Jeff and Pat.
Ive got also the one big and one small one if thats okay.
On the impairments part is that the reason for the high DD&amp;A number and if so can you give us an idea of what the run rate should be? It certainly is a contributor to the high DD&amp;A rate.
Absolutely thats a factor.
And in terms of general DD&amp;A I think that its fair to say that overall quarter DD&amp;A is going to go forward move up.
Our expectation would be they would move up in 2014 relative to 2013.
And we think opportunities in acre bell [ph] rising for the next couple of years but then flattening out overtime.
The patterns on both the absolute and the per barrel is something that you would absolutely expect because of recent investments and our future investments that obviously is also impacted by reserve ad timing and the mix of our projects etcetera.
PPC or pre-productive capital as we talked about is going to come down.
So I think the thing youve got to keep in mind here too is that for these investments there is evidencing itself and will evidence itself in our DD&amp;A rate.
We are giving the investments audience to the largest growth rate of the peer group.
A 20% growth rate in volumes between now and 2017.
So a significant investment so generating significant volume growth.
Thanks.
But Ill take the specifics on DD&amp;A offline with Jeff if thats okay.
My follow-up is really your last point because I think the growth and the cash margins really actually fairly well understood.
What simply weve observed over the years is that not really gets paid by the market when its accompanied by strong debt adjusted tools if you like so the balance sheet is not expanding at the same time.
So Im just kind of curious when you look at your  you say youre absorbing the best 20% growth how do you think about the trade-off thats $10 billion annual run rate on the balance sheet? And Ill leave it there.
Thanks.
So I mean I guess I think that if youve got the project queue a slowing project queue and youve got a balance sheet that allows you to invest for that.
And we do have a balance sheet.
In fact you could really argue that for years we were under-levered relative to what might be optimal.
So if youve got this strong project queue and if youve got the balance sheet to support it and the projects are value-accreting for the organization for the firm then I think thats exactly the kind of investment profile you ought to be undertaking.
All right.
I appreciate your answers.
Thanks Pat.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Your question please.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hi Paul.
I dont know whether you want to answer that.
I think a lot of people are asking that for CPC your joint-venture strategically is there any particular reason you need to owning that so that you can have synergy with your other operations if not if you look it as a financial investment does it makes sense for you to only minority interest and put it up as a publicly traded entity together with your partner Phillips 66 and putting into the market so that you can recognize a much higher value given right now that youre trading at higher multiple than say both your partner and yourself? Yes so I understand the question there.
And Ill just start back with when we put the two companies together we had too I guess I would say sort of the meddling performing chemical companies if we put them together.
And its been a wonderful marriage.
The partners are very much aligned on how to run this business where you extract value from this business.
And so its a joint-venture that has worked very well and has been very successful so were very pleased.
So there no catalysts thats out there necessarily to say that we need to be doing something different.
It is the part of the portfolio that has growth opportunities available to it.
And we appreciate that with this change in the U.S.
gas production and advantaged feedstock opportunities here.
I think CPChem calls on the technical expertise of both of its parent company and were able to and happy to assist them in that capacity.
We think it fits nicely in our portfolio.
It has  the chemical business is highly highly cyclical more so than our portfolio.
And so were able to withstand the adjustments that are there we think thats an advantage as well.
So we are really seeing that there is huge catalyst for us to do something different.
And its not always clear that the PE multiples in these petrochemical commodity companies are always trading at multiples better than ours.
So we like the joint-venture.
We think its well run.
Were happy to assist and its growth projects and providing expertise and technical capability where we can.
Were very satisfied with it and I dare to say that our joint-venture partner will be feeling much the same.
Okay very good.
Second question can you give us a quick update where the Angola LNG going out I just wondering you had 50% capacity.
And also in the Permian with the 25 rigs do you have a number that how many of them is currently running in the conventional and whether [indiscernible] already? Thank you.
Okay let me start with Angola and then you might to help me again on the second question.
So on Angola we did have recently a technical issue pop-up.
We had a piping failure which did result in an unplanned interruption to production.
There was no fire.
There were no injuries.
It was a pretty localized damage.
It was associated with the flare system.
We are doing a root cause investigation and in fact that root cause analysis should be completed within a few days here is my understanding.
So the plant is currently shutdown and well need to take a look at that root cause analysis to understand what the go-forward operating plan looks like.
That failure occurred sort of mid-April early April and it therefore was not an impact in the first quarter results.
Permian the 25 rigs.
How many of them is in unconventional drilling and of which how many of them is in the pad drilling already? Okay.
So all of the 25 rigs in the Permian right now are in the unconventional.
We have only one rig drilling in the conventional.
And I think youre asking about pad drilling? Yes correct.
I dont have information on that specific at this point Paul.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Iain Reid from Bank of Montreal.
Your question please.
Yes.
Hi guys.
Thanks very much.
Sorry about this but can I get back to the impairments and asset divestments you put in the reconciliation back.
Because I didnt understanding some of the stuff you talked about earlier.
You got $150 million of E&amp;P impairments.
It looks like in the first quarter and also $100 million gain on dispositions.
I think you also got this mining write-down as well.
If you just put those together for me again? Sure.
So lets start with the biggest element which is the mining element.
We have a molybdenum mine in New Mexico.
And the impairment charges that we talked about there and other related charges that I talked to at the very beginning the $265 million relates to that.
That asset from a segmented reporting basis is in our other segment.
In upstream we noted a $150 million of impairments.
Its in the international sector for us.
So these are assets where we feel there is better opportunity in other portfolios basically.
And then the third element that was noted there was a asset sale gain.
This was in our midstream sector.
Its really pipeline-related and that showed up in the downstream external segment.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
And secondly was is it possible to update us on when were likely to see the Tengiz hit [ph] to FID? Our targets for this year  our target is to have that towards the end of the year.
I dont really have any additional information at this point.
We were successful in getting the MoU signed back in the later part of last year which really is a stage setting document to get all the partners aligned on the go-forward process.
And so were in the process now of going through and working the cost estimates etcetera etcetera.
So all I can say is towards the end of this year.
And we should expect a kind of overall CapEx  growth CapEx for this project and along the line just some of your major things youre doing in Australia.
Is that correct or is that kind of ballpark right sort of number? Well Im sorry.
So Im sorry TCO is Kazakhstan right.
I guess one last thing there on TCO.
The FID is not kind of critical path.
What was the question on Atyrau I didnt quite understand? Sorry I just want to get an overall ballpark on Atyrau what the overall cost estimate of the future growth project is going to be? Is it in the same ballpark as what youre doing in Australia? I see Iain.
We dont have an updated  we dont have a cost estimate until we go to FID.
So that will be later and attached to the FID timings.
All right.
Thanks Pat.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
Your question please.
Thanks good morning.
First question on Jack/St.
Malo.
You said that it was moored on location.
I just want to understand a little bit how much sort of wiggle room do you guys have from now to the startup to get that project going and if there is an active hurricane season have you built in that sort of weather into the startup and end of the year for that project? Well its my understanding that when were putting these facilities out in the Gulf of Mexico we do as much weather proofing as we possibly can.
Obviously when youre investing at the size of these facilities thats an important consideration.
So clearly having it moored is an important step.
And so our expectation is that we would be able to handle any weather complications that might arise.
Okay fair enough.
Can I just to add Faisel too.
Yes.
If there are hurricanes you have to demobilize.
If the folks that are working on it that could slow things down a little bit but we dont  its hard to estimate whats going to happen there.
I guess Im just trying to understand if you guys have sort of incorporated that into your guidance of the startup? In a general sense from a planning standpoint we always do factor in Gulf of Mexico weather activities to a degree right.
But each year is a difference degree you know what I mean.
Sure.
So there is obviously a base load that we include in our plans yes.
Okay.
Thats fair.
I understand.
And then just on the under-lift you guys talked about the sequential quarter-over-quarter charge of $235 million.
Is that also fair to say that thats the absolute number too? So Ill give you the absolute for the quarter is about $100 million about half of that.
So the rest of that is swing between the two quarters Faisel.
Okay got you.
Thanks.
I appreciate the detail.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Your question please.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Youre obviously talking a lot more proactively about the Permian presumably youd like to get more value for that asset.
Have you considered any kind of financial engineering solution that might unlock that value more so than simply as one piece of your U.S.
portfolio? Well we think we actually try for sitting in kind of in the catbird seat in terms of the acreage position that weve got the long standing acreage position weve got the royalty advantage that we have there.
We have done joint-ventures of a kind of  with for example Cimarex where we have partnered with similarly situated partners.
And those kinds of things you could see us continuing to do on a go-forward basis.
If you get commonality of infrastructure and location and you can get efficiencies of drilling where that youre fracking can really go from our property to their property.
So we will continue to look for those opportunities for synergies.
Weve got a very active program scheduled for this year.
Its over 500 wells.
And 25 rigs weve done 120 drilling so far.
So the activity level is at or perhaps little bit better than planned at this point.
So well continue to look for opportunities like that but were proceeding had on our own as well.
Okay.
And just quickly can I get an update on the exploration program in Liberia? I havent heard about that in a while.
Yes were not in a position to say anything more at this point.
Okay.
Fair enough thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Guy Baber from Simmons &amp; Company.
Your question please.
Thank you all for taking my question.
My first one was on the 2014 production guidance but understanding its still very early in the year just wanted to get a sense of how confident you guys are in the guidance right now just considering some of the weather influence that youve got in 1Q the unplanned downtime at Angola LNG and in 2Q and 3Q typically being heavier maintenance course.
Just wanted to better understand how you guys are feeling about that internally and any cushion you might built-in into the guidance? Okay.
Thats a good question.
I guess I would just start by saying the year is young.
Weve only had four months or three months in here.
There have been some positive.
Jeff mentioned a figure about base business declines being at the 3% or little bit less than 3% level.
So thats a very good positive.
One thing we havent mentioned of a positive nature is at Frade we now have 10 producing wells on and we continue to make progress to bring on additional wells there.
We talked about the Permian ramp ups and the Vaca Muerta ramp ups that are occurring.
So those are all working in our favor.
Clearly weather has been a negative for us in the first quarter.
On an absolute basis we would estimate that that was worth 20 000 barrels a day or so absolutely negative in the quarter.
I mentioned the A-LNG operational issues that we have there.
So you put those altogether you got some pluses you got some minuses.
And the back-end of the year weve got Tubular Bells and Jack/St.
Malo both of which are scheduled to come online so our production ramp ups are kind of back-end loaded.
And both of those projects are on track.
So the best I can say is and Ill go back and say we built-in weather contingencies in our Gulf of Mexico plan in particular for a base load amount.
Ill just go back and say the year is young.
Weve got positive and negatives out there.
We feel that the guidance that we gave the $26.10 is the best guidance that we have at this particular point in time.
And as we do every year on the second quarter well update you with how things look at that point in time.
Okay great.
Thanks for that.
That was very helpful.
And then my follow-up was on one of your three primary growth themes of deepwater.
And Im more focused on your next generation of projects looking beyond the near-term startups that you have lined up if we start thinking about look at your reserve additions and then longer term growth potential but you all have a number of potential FID this year which you have an interest in I think Stampede and then youre Indonesia development at Bangka and then youre also reevaluating Rosebank.
So understanding that every project is unique how would provide some more commentary on just how conducive the overall environment right now is to pushing forward deepwater FIDs just in line of your view of the cost environment and the evolution of project economics and what you might see as opportunity for cost savings.
Just given whats generally appears to be a more disciplined approach to screening these projects for you all and with some of your peers? Okay.
Well I think I would say if I step back and look at deepwater I think for Chevron portfolio you mentioned a number of projects but I think the most strategic basin continues to be the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
And weve got number of wells drilling now and well have additional wells drilling over the next 12 to 18 months a significant number of them six wells in the next 12 to eight months.
So that continues to be an area of strategic focus.
And we think were competitive there on facility structure as well as drilling costs completion costs.
So thats important area for us.
If I look at IDD.
IDD is a complex project.
Its multiple fields.
And right now were in a position of waiting for government approvals.
And then on Rosebank we did really with the operator kind of put that  as the operator put that into a recycle mode because the cost that had come through were really didnt make it compete for capital within our portfolio.
So thats somewhat in a recycle mode.
So I think the overall impression that you have about the industry stepping back and taking a look at the cost run up for some of these resource place relative to the value capture I think some of that is being reassessed as you indicate Rosebank is a good example of that.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Yes good morning.
Good morning Roger.
I guess to come back to the Permian a little bit if I understood correctly you were not or have not to this point drilled any horizontal wells in the Midland Basin.
Was that accurate? We are looking to spud the first one later on this year.
Okay.
So thinking about how production from the horizontal wells is typically been a little more lets say higher IP rates so that.
We should think about the shale and tight production accelerating I dont know call a Q4 certainly into 15.
Would that be consistent with how youre looking at things? So I think it would be fair to say that if you go forward and you look at quarter-after-quarter-after-quarter improvement we would be looking to see improvements kind of quarter-after-quarter.
Our real focus has been on getting capital efficiency maximize and getting a strong execution of business being well.
So its really been on optimizing the value creation.
And so weve been spending time to understand where the best areas are.
And what the most efficient rigs had and overall development plan is.
Frankly a lot of the other producers there have been allowing us to de-risk did play by the work that they have done and thats in a sense advantageous to us.
And we think we can get overtime the same kind of synergies and efficiencies that the smaller operators have.
And one of the slides that we have put out in the security analyst meeting gave a good indication of what we see as year-on-year net production increases in the Permian Basin.
And at the pretty significant growth rate we also talk to essentially doubling of our rig count over the next several years from where it is currently.
All right.
Well I guess we now have a couple of quarters here where youre breaking out shale and tight from everything else so start to get a feel for what the quarter-over-quarter year-over-year performance is.
Exactly.
So just want to make sure I was understanding the way it should progress here.
Right.
And were hopeful for quarter-on-quarter improvement going forward.
Good.
I guess my follow-up question the Angola LNG obviously going to be offline in terms of volume contribution in the second quarter for some significant period of time but if you think about  and I know sometimes you dont get too granular but the impact on it from a cash flow standpoint.
I mean was this operation given the troubles its had so far actually contributing much or should we think about it as mostly a production impact but not a problem for cash flows as we look in the next couple of quarters? Yes I think you will see  it will be more noticeable clearly in the production side than the cash flow side clearly.
And I dont have  as I mentioned we need to have the root cause analysis done before we have an indication of when  what that repair and maintenance  repair activity will look like and how long that will take and then when we might get back to a producing mode.
Okay.
Ill leave it with that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude the question-and-answer session of todays program.
Id like to hand the program back to Pat Yarrington for any further remarks.
All right.
Thank you Jonathan.
I guess we got through everybodys question.
So I appreciate your time and interest today.
I especially want to thank all the analysts on behalf of all the participants for the questions that they asked in this mornings session.
So Jonathan Ill turn it back to you and thank everybody.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude Chevrons First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevrons Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning and thank you Jonathan.
Welcome to Chevrons second quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today is George Kirkland Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President and Jeff Gustavson General Manager Investor Relations.
We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevrons website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement on Slide two.
Turning to Slide three the companys second quarter earnings were $5.7 billion or $2.98 per diluted share.
On a year-to-day basis earnings were $10.2 million or $5.34 per diluted share.
Included in this quarter's earnings were gains on asset sales of approximately $750 million and foreign exchange losses of $232 million which together equate to a positive $0.27 per share.
Year-to-day earnings after netting gains impairments and foreign exchange impacts was $10.1 million or $5.29 per share.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was approximately 12%.
This reflects both the strength of our underlying producing assets and the fact that we are in the midst of a heavy construction period for a few key capital projects.
Our debt ratio at the end of June was approximately 13% similar to last quarter.
Our financial priorities are unchanged and we continue to reward shareholders with competitive distribution.
We repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares during the second quarter and in the third quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.
Finally Chevrons five-year total shareholder return at the end of the quarter was 18.4% which continued to lead the peer group and also was in line with the S&amp;P500 over the same time period.
Turning to Slide four cash generated from operations was $7.9 billion during the second quarter and $16.3 billion year-to-date.
Cash capital expenditures were $8.9 billion during the quarter and $17.5 billion year-to-date.
At the quarter end our cash balances exceeded $14 billion giving us a net debt position of $9 billion.
Slide five compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year.
Second quarter 2014 earnings were $300 million higher than second quarter 2013 results.
Foreign exchange negative affected earnings by $232 million during the quarter representing a negative swing of over a $0.5 million between periods.
As a reminder foreign exchange movements for us are largely book translation effect with minimal cash flow impact.
Upstream earnings increased by $315 million.
Gains on assets transaction of approximately $610 million in absolute terms and higher realization were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange impact and higher exploration DD&amp;A and operating expenses.
Downstream results decreased by $45 million.
Higher U.S.
refining marketing and chemical earnings were offset by lower international refined product margins along with adverse foreign exchange effects.
Movement in the other segment reflects an absence of a 2013 second quarter impairment and lower corporate expenses largely offset by higher corporate tax charges.
Turning to Slide six Ill now compare results for the second quarter of 2014 with the first quarter of 2014.
Second quarter earnings were approximately $1.2 million higher than first quarter results.
Upstream earnings were up $957 million reflecting gains on asset transactions higher lifting modestly strong realization and favorable tax effects.
Partially offsetting were higher exploration and operating expenses in addition to an unfavorable foreign exchange movement between quarters.
Downstream results were essentially flat.
The variants in the other bar largely reflects the absence of the impairment and related charges for our mining asset from the prior quarter partially offset by higher corporate expenses.
Jeff will now take us through the comparisons by segment.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide seven our U.S.
upstream earnings for the second quarter were $142 million higher than first quarter's results.
Higher production volumes at the Perdido and Caesar Tonga Fields in the Gulf of Mexico in the Midland and Delaware Basin and the Permian and in San Joaquin Valley increased earnings by $115 million.` Higher exploration expenses mainly associated with the deepwater Gulf of Mexico decreased earnings by $95 million.
The second quarter included gains on several separate assets transactions worth approximately $180 million in total.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including lower natural gas realization and higher operating expenses.
Turning to Slide eight international upstream earnings were $815 million higher than last quarter's results.
Higher realizations and higher liftings increased earnings by $280 million.
Our under-lifted position in the first quarter was essentially neutralized.
Gains on the sale of our interest in Chad and Cameroon increased earnings by $430 million.
Lower impairments compared to the prior quarter resulted in an earnings increase of $140 million.
An unfavorable movement in foreign currency effects decreased earnings by $95 million.
The second quarter had a loss of about $150 million compared to a loss of about $55 million in the first quarter.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including favorable tax effects offset by higher operating and exploration expenses.
Slide 9 summarizes the change in Chevrons worldwide net oil equivalent production between the second quarter 2014 and the first quarter 2014.
Production decreased by 43 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Shale and tight resources growth contributed 6 000 barrels per day driven primarily by production increases from the Midland and Delaware Basin in the Permian.
We are also seeing continued growth from the Vaca Muerta Shale in Argentina.
Major capital projects decreased volumes by 13 000 barrels per day due to the shutdown of the LNG plant in Angola partially offset by the ramp up at Papa-Terra in Brazil and Caesar Tonga in the Gulf of Mexico.
Plan turnarounds in Kazakhstan Australia and in Denmark among others reduced production by 57 000 barrels per day.
Absence of first quarter external constrains largely weather related disruptions in Kazakhstan as well as lower demand in Thailand increased volumes by 27 000 barrels per day.
The base business in other bar reflects normal field declines.
Slide 10 compares the change in Chevrons worldwide net oil equivalent production between the second quarter 2014 and the second quarter 2013.
Production was 37 000 barrels per day lower than the same period a year ago.
Growing volumes from our Shale and tight resources primarily driven by the Permian in the U.S.
and Vaca Muerta in Argentina increased production by 33 000 barrels per day.
Major capital projects contributed 13 000 barrels per day driven by Usan in Nigeria and Papa-Terra in Brazil partially offset by the shutdown of the LNG plant in Angola.
Higher turnaround activity mainly in Kazakhstan reduced production by 21 000 barrels per day.
Lower production in titanium effects due to lower cost recovery higher prices and higher royalties reduced production by 37 000 barrels per day.
The base business and other bar principally reflects normal field declines.
Turning to Slide 11 U.S.
downstream results increased $95 million between quarters.
Stronger margins increased earnings by $140 million driven by tighter product supply due in part to industry refinery maintenance combined with higher seasonal demand higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $130 million.
About half of this was due to higher cost related to shutdown and maintenance activities at the El Segundo Refinery during the quarter.
The turnaround was completed at the end of June and refinery operations have returned to normal.
The remainder reflects higher maintenance and repair expenses at our other refineries and incremental costs from the startup of the Pascagoula base oil plant.
Gains on midstream asset sales improved earnings by $40 million between quarters.
The other bar reflects a number of items including stronger chemicals results.
Turning to Slide 12 international downstream earnings decreased $84 million between quarters.
Increased volumes improved earnings by $75 million following the completion of turnarounds at our Thailand and South Africa Refineries last quarter.
Lower refinery margins decreased earnings by $15 million reflecting higher crude cost that could not be fully recovered in the marketplace.
Foreign exchange losses were approximately $55 million higher compared to prior quarter.
The second quarter had a loss of about $85 million compared to a loss of about $30 million in the first quarter.
Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $30 million.
The other bar includes a number of unrelated items including minor asset transactions and lower trading results.
George will now provide an update on our upstream operations.
George? Thank you Jeff.
First I would like to highlight the progress on our Gorgon project.
This photo shows the LNG plant in the foreground with the jetty in the distance.
We continue to make excellent progress in the module fabrication yards and on Barrow Island.
Module delivers are continuing on schedule and we are achieving our key milestones.
Gorgon remains on track for a startup next year and will be a key contributor to our production grown in 2015 and beyond.
Ill share a bit more on Gorgon later.
Consistent with prior quarters we have posted additional progress photos for both Gorgon and Wheatstone which can be found on our Investor page at Chevron.com.
Now let's take a look at our Upstream financial performance on Slide 14.
Our 2014 year-to-date Upstream earnings margins was $20.32 per barrel.
The suggested margin does not include gains from any of our recent asset sales in this quarter.
Based on the results for our peer group through the first half of the year we lead all our competitors by an average of over $3.50 per barrel.
Relative to the first half of 2013 our earnings margins have softened.
Foreign exchange swings reduced our margin by a $1.42 per barrel.
This combined with higher exploration expansions and DDNA have been the primary contributors to this decline.
We are cognizant of the current microenvironment increasing cost of goods and services coupled with relatively flat commodity prices and we remain focused on managing controllable cost.
Looking forward we are expecting strong contributions from our new MCPs as they come online.
Now Ill discuss our 2014 production results and outlook on Slide 15.
Production in the first half of the year averaged 2.57 million barrels a day at an average year-to-date Brent price of just under $109 per barrel.
The first half results are 43 000 barrels per day or 1.7% below our guidance.
Relative to our guidance production entitlement effects reduced production by approximately 20 000 barrels a day and the unplanned outage at Angola LNG reduced production by a further 15 000 barrels per day.
Our base business performed well.
Over the six months of the year we have maintained a base decline rate of less than 3%.
We also continue to see strong growth from shale and tight assets.
During the second half of 2014 we anticipate further production ramp up at Papa-Terra in Brazil and our two Gulf of Mexico developments Tubular Bells and Jack/St.
Malo as these are all scheduled to come online.
During the second half of the year we will perform the second of two planned turnarounds at TCO as well as execute large turnarounds in Thailand and in the North Sea.
The product entitlement effects are anticipated to continue and we dont expect any LNG production in the second half of the year.
Completed asset sales in the first half will of course affect second half production.
We forecast 2014 production will average 98% to 99% of our January guidance.
Our 2017 growth to 3.1 million barrels per day remains on track as we bring on our new projects and progress our shale and tight resources.
I would like to provide you with a little more detail on the production growth which we anticipate will occur over the next several years.
Turning to Slide 16 our peer-leading growth to 2017 is largely driven the startup of our major capital projects.
For the last several years weve been in a period of high investment while our MCPs progress through the construction phase.
As these projects now transition to operations beginning with our deepwater projects Tubular Bells and Jack/St.
Malo we forecast significant volume and earnings growth.
We remain focused on executing our industry-leading queue of projects with excellence.
We have the right people and processes to deliver these projects and we are excited about the value creation.
While many projects contribute to our growth the majority of our new volume is generated by aid of our largest MCPs.
Gorgon and Wheatstone in Australia; Mafumeira Sul and ALNG in Angola Papa-Terra in Brazil and Jack/St.
Malo Tubular Bells and Bigfoot in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Now I will review progress on six of these projects.
Moving to Slide 17.
In early April Angola LNG experienced a failure in the flare blow down piping system.
At the time of our first quarter earnings call the investigation was still underway.
Following a thorough analysis a number of design issues have been identified which will require modifications.
In addition to the piping repairs the LNG team will utilize this shutdown to perform capacity and reliability enhancements to the plant.
Following completion of repairs and testing the plant will restart and it is expected to achieve sustained production in the second half of 2015.
The Gorgon project is now more than 83% complete.
All Train 1 and common modules required for LNG operations have been delivered to Barrow Island and installed on foundations.
Other down string work of Barrow continues to progress well with the jetty now 97% complete and the commissioning beginning this month on LNG Tank 1.
Delivery of Train 2 modules has begun and 5 are now on site.
On the Gorgon upstream hydrotesting has been completed on all 660 km of offshore pipelines.
The well flow back and clean up operations on the eight Gorgon wells is ongoing and drilling has been completed on the tenth and final Jansz-Io development well.
The next major milestone is the completion of LNG tank 1 which is targeted for the end of this quarter.
Wheatstone is now 40% complete.
Dredging build and piling work is progressing on schedule.
The shore pool of the main 44-inch trunkline through the microtunnel was completed safely and as planned.
Shipments from fabrication yards have commenced with the delivery of the first slug catcher components two side.
The Wheatstone platform and topsides are now more than 63% complete and we anticipate the sailway of the platforms zero gravity structure in August.
Wheatstone remains on track for a late 2016 startup.
Now I will review progress on our deep water Gulf of Mexico projects.
Moving to slide 18.
The Tubular Bells project is nearing startup.
All key tie-ins have been installed and tested and the wells are ready for production.
Production operations are anticipated to come -- to commence in the third quarter.
The remaining work on Jack/St.
Malo is progressing well and the project remains on track for late fourth quarter startup.
Overall hookup in commissioning and startup progress is now 73% complete.
Tie-in spools for the Steel Catenary Risers have been installed and gas pipeline pre-commissioning is complete.
Jack/St.
Malo will be a key contributor to our production growth in 2015 as production ramps up.
Bigfoot shipyard related construction is over 90% complete and preparations are being made for a fourth quarter sailway.
Fabrication work on the tension leg platform tendons is now complete and whole and topside integration is nearing completion.
The project team marked a major milestone with the heavy lifts of the drilling modules this quarter and as you can see in the picture on the slide.
Bigfoot remains on track for a 2015 startup.
We are pleased with the progress on our key deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects.
As these three projects ramp up during the next year we will see a significant uptick in production as we move towards our 2017 goal.
At peak capacity these projects will deliver Chevron approximately 100 000 net barrels per day.
Now I will provide an update on our shale and tight activities.
Please turn to slide 19.
Chevron is the largest producer in the Permian and has an enviable acreage position.
We have the largest and developed leasehold and 90% of our acreage is either low or no royalty.
We have over 17 000 well prospects identified and the potential to add eight to 10 000 more.
Since we are not in a drill or drop situation our approach has been to allow others to derisk acreage surrounding our own.
This enables us to focus our capital on development wells rather than exploration and appraisal.
In the Midland basin of the Wolfcamp play industry drilling today has been predominantly via vertical wells.
Earlier this summer we spotted our first horizontal Wolfcamp well.
We now have 17 rigs operating in the Midland basin and 10 rigs operating in the Delaware basin where we added two rigs this quarter.
We are on schedule to drill more than 500 wells this year in the Permian basin.
Turning now to Argentina Chevron is please with our initial results in the Vaca Muerta.
Drilling results have helped us identify two sweet spots where we are focusing our activity.
In one of these areas we have commenced a horizontal program.
We have seen a production uptick which gives us confidence that we will deliver the growth we anticipated when we entered this play.
Good progress is being made on our Duvernay program in Canada.
Our wells have demonstrated good blow rates and high condensate yields and we are confident of the quality of our acreage.
In the third quarter we anticipate spotting the first of 16 wells as part of our expanded appraisal program.
Also in Canada we are continuing with the appraisal campaign in the Liard Basin.
Results continue to indicate very favorable ultimate recoveries and high IPs which will support our longer term plans for this asset.
Moving to Slide 20.
I will now highlight a few additional ongoing activities.
We continue to have good success on our exploration program in the Carnarvon Basin in Australia.
Since our announcement of Elphin 1 in April of last year we have made four additional discoveries.
This provides us with additional gas resource and optimization alternatives for our Gorgon and Wheatstone LNG facilities.
In March we stayed at our target to deliver 10 billion in asset sales over the 2014 to 2016 time period and we are on our way to meeting that goal.
Our recent divestiture of the Chad assets is one example of our focus on monetizing a mature declining business which allows us to generate cash for potential reinvestment in other growth areas.
We are also progressing the sale of several other mature assets including the Netherlands our non-operated interest in Draugen in Norway several leases in Nigeria as well as several smaller assets from our conventional North American portfolio.
We recently achieved a major milestone at our Escravos gas-to-liquids plant with the production of GTL diesel in that.
We anticipate continued ramp-up in first product lifting later this year.
Our exploration and development program in the Utica is yielding good results for both liquids and gas.
Industry results in the Utica shale have been encouraging from Ohio into West Virginia and Pennsylvania.
We recently achieved a test of more than 32 million standard cubic feet per day on a 22/64s choke at one of our wells in the emerging southern trend.
We anticipate this well will be turned into line this fall.
And finally were also very encouraged with the initial results in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
Exploratory drilling and logging has indicated multiple play zones in a large structure.
We have begun initial drillstone test and the formations have demonstrated the ability to deliver high liquid blow rates.
On one of the two wells we plan to test upto nine different zones.
Well continue with our KRI testing program over the months ahead.
Now I will turn it back to Pat.
Okay thanks George.
Turning to Slide 21.
I would like to close with just a few thoughts.
Global energy demand continues to grow and satisfying demand growth is a great business opportunity for us.
Weve had the same basic strategies for a long time now.
We believe they remain relevant and that they will continue drive future value growth for our shareholders.
We continue to focus on executions.
You just heard from George that our base business in the upstream continues to perform well and that were making significant progress on our major capital projects.
In the downstream we can also report success.
The Pascagoula base oil plant or PBOP as we call it is now online.
First commercial production began in June and the plant rampup to full production ended July.
We are now the largest producer of premium base oil worldwide.
Focus on execution also means operating safely and reliably.
Through six months our personal and process safety performance has been strong across all the measures we typically share with you.
The days away from work rate Tier-1 loss of containment and spills.
Sustained value creation requires reinvestment in our business.
This is necessary to meet future energy demand and is vital to sustaining growing rewards for our share holders.
We have a broad balanced and deep queue of investment opportunities and take a highly disciplined approach to capital allocations.
We are actively managing our portfolio and are on track to meet our stated target of achieving proceeds from asset sales of $10 billion over the 2014 to 2016 time period.
Through six months asset sell proceeds at total $1.6 billion now are making good progress on a number of other planned transactions.
We have the best growth profile amongst the peers between now and 2017.
Every quarter as project milestones are checked off we get one step closer to the inflexion point.
Indeed two of the projects George highlighted are set to startup in the second half of this year and two more in 2015.
Along with this sizeable growth in volume we expect will come significant growth in cash flows.
We expect free cash flow to grow as well thereby enabling higher shareholder distributions over time.
I short we are very excited about what lies ahead for the company.
So that concludes our prepared remarks.
I certainly appreciate you listening in this morning.
We are now ready to take some questions.
Please keep in mind that we do have a full queue so try to limit yourself to one question and one followup if necessary.
Well do our best to get all of your questions answered.
Jonathan please open the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Your question please.
Yes good morning and thanks George for your time on the upstream as well.
Maybe just firstly a question on cash flow.
Last year about $36 billion this year sort of $33 billion if you annualize the first half and obviously oil prices have state higher.
It looks as if your turnarounds are in high margin areas but is there any other deterioration in the cash flow relative to your expectations? Obviously you have given us some guidance on the Analyst Day of relatively strong cash flow growth from the 2013 basis as these major projects come on stream.
Ed we still feel good about our cash flow projections going out 2015 2016 and 2017 and again it is obviously predicated on the production growth that George went through on major capital projects growth in the Permian and then also of course oil prices will be quite impactful there.
If youre looking at the first half of this year relative to the second half I think one of the comments I would make would be downstream.
Downstream has not been as cash prolific perhaps as certainly we would like.
Many of the turnarounds that have -- we talked about on the slides are in the rear-view mirror so to speak at this point and so the second half of the year we believe should be a better cash generation from a downstream standpoint.
Okay.
Then a question on the upstream just generally.
I'm looking at Slide 10 and of course you are slightly lower on production this year.
But if you add up the turnaround production entitlements and base business you are losing some volumes but even without major capital projects the volume trajectory is relatively flat.
And then as I look at the slide that you put out helpfully on MCPs getting up to 900 000 barrels a day from the big projects and the other stuff that you are doing.
And then I think about shale it feels like something has to get worse to miss the 3.1 million barrel a day sort of 2017 guidance which is a good position to be in.
But I am just wondering what is it that gets worse in your assumptions as you look out?  Ed I just dont have any things to get worse on our assumptions.
If you remember when we came through at the SAM meeting and gave you our forecast of 3.1 we showed a 50 000 barrel a day buffer so there is a buffer in there.
The only and part of the reason we had that buffer in there was always the forecasting ability but recognize that weve talked a lot more about asset sales and we have asset sales in our plan.
We dont always know exactly what assets sales will actually occur.
We are very focused always on the value proposition of those and thats really what weve got to focus on creating the greatest value on those asset sales and it is a reminder when we look at asset sales were looking at two pieces.
Were looking end of life assets do they have continuing investment opportunities and then of course we look at some of our assets that are on the front that dont compete for funds.
So weve got a little bit of latitude in there to cover some of the assets sale losses that occur when we sell these properties but I cant give you the details on those because we are very value driven.
Were going to make the best decision on getting the greatest value for anything we sell.
And very sneakily at the end just in terms of three questions it is not an entitlement change as you go forward.
The pace of current entitlement changes stays flat through the forecast do you think?  Let me explain a little bit about the entitlement change in there and this probably heads off a question that were likely to get from others.
Each year when we give you our production forecast we have modeled and we have all kinds of assumptions on production entitlements.
We do our very best job to try to nail those entitlements.
We have a 20 000 barrel a day impact in our entitlements that are greater than what we had anticipated.
We've shown that in that section for me -- you have to understand.
When we model this weve all kinds of assumptions there.
Ill just deal with two of those the two biggest ones that make up most of this 20 000 barrels a day.
The two of them are in TCO and in Bangladesh.
The TCO one we make assumptions of how much crude were going to move via rail versus how much crude were going to move on the CPC pipeline.
We have that assumption.
That comes up and tells us what were going to -- gives us a really good indication of royalty net back that the well has.
That gives us net back that the well heads which impacts our royalty assumptions.
This year we have moved more barrels on the CPC because it was available actually about 80 000 barrels a day in TCO was moved more than was in the plan.
Thats great for us.
Thats great for Kazakhstan great for the partnership because we get higher net backs.
Weve also had higher prices on the sulphur and sulphur sold at a higher price translates to a higher net back for us that the well had also.
And that reduces net production.
Its a really good thing for all of us.
So thats really positive.
So if the value decision right value decision.
Similarly in Bangladesh weve had an agreement on how we would look at that.
That is now going to be reimbursed and the reimbursement will not will in effect reduce our cost barrels.
There is a impact on that.
Its good for us to clear up the bad issue.
Its good from a profit gas or profit oil basis going forward that removes that cost out of it.
So thats another value creator for us not nearly as big as the TCO one but its a positive for us and those two items made most of the difference on this entitlement.
Good things right way to run the business but we didnt have it modeled that way in our plan so -- and Ill tell you were always going to go after the piece that makes the most value sense.
Maybe that will help.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Your question please.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning The first question I had is for George.
Relating to the startups in the lower tertiary.
George you said in the past that the key to really good returns there would be increasing recoveries from I think you plan on 10% towards 20% recoveries.
What is the path towards us -- and the timeframe I guess towards us getting a better idea of how those recoveries will play out? Thanks.
Paul thanks for the question.
Historically what we had actually said is we looked at recoveries initially would be in the 8% to 10% range and then that we saw technologies either completion technologies reducing back pressure on the reservoir items such as those technologies that would increase the recovery towards the 15 and then onto 20%.
We do believe we are on track for that.
I am going to feel a lot more confident as we get the first Jack/St.
Malo wells on and we see our new completion technology how successful we are there.
Well be watching production rates.
Ill tell you I am encouraged that weve done the cleanup on a number of those wells already.
So when the facilities are ready well be able to turn them on and well initially get a quick look of course at production rates.
If our production rates are at the high end of our assumption thats going to give us confidence that were going to get a little bit more recovery.
We should actually have some pretty good confidence in that on the little bit of impact on our recovery view and of course well have a much stronger view on production volumes as we get to the end of the year end March as we get a little bit of runtime on these wells.
I feel good about what weve seen on the cleanup though and Ill just leave it there qualitatively.
Okay.
Interesting.
And then the follow-up I had was on Gorgon start up.
When you say mid-2015 is that the first production of gas the first production of LNG or the first sale of LNG? Thanks.
It is the first production of LNG.
Its not gas introduced into the plant.
Weve a target to see gas introduced into the plant this year because we need the gas introduced into the plant to start commissioning activities.
So one of our early activities is getting gas introduced in the plan getting the turbine generators running get the power support for the operations.
That utility piece is very critical to the startup and its actually a milestone that well be talking about more in the next quarters call.
Cool and then the actual sale of LNG.
When would that be? I am not going to go that next step.
I am going to leave it till we have the first LNG in the tank which we will announce and once we have first LNG well be announcing our target for first lifting.
Interesting.
Thanks.
And you are still trying to sell more contracts there aren't you? Is there any reason why we haven't heard more about that given you have shown modeling of a shortage of LNG long-term? I'm just surprised we haven't heard more about contracts.
And I will leave it there.
Thank you.
Paul.
We are still looking at opportunities so to sell more gas.
We really dont have a lot more to sell.
Remember on the Wheatstone side we already stood at 85%.
so we are fully sold out there.
As a reminder we have some ability to move gas in our contracts from different assets we own.
So we have some flexibility there.
We are still once again looking to increase that but we are value driven so we need to get a price that we think is appropriate.
The spot market has been good on a seasonal basis the last year so we feel pretty good about the volumes if we had to move them into the spot side.
Preferentially we would move them to a longer term sales contract if we get the right kind of price.
And Paul I would just add that with the degree of uncertainty that there is about U.S.
exports and the size of U.S.
exports I think there -- you can understand why buyers might want to wait a little bit to see how that all lands out before going forward to secure longer term contracts.
Okay.
I will leave it there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your question please.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Pat I wonder if I could follow-up on Ed Westlake's question because this is something we have been kind of wrestling with.
It may be overly simplistic but you gave us cartoon at the Analyst Day that showed how the cash margin improves let's say in a $110 oil environment so let's call that same-store sales with last year at $36 billion.
But when we take the delta on production growth and the delta on the margin it only adds about $8 billion to the cash flow so that gets you to $44 billion you are spending a little under $40 billion the dividends are $7 billion and your buybacks are $5 billion.
So can you help me with what else are you assuming in that inflection in cash flow that you talked about in your prepared remarks because your offstream guidance doesn't really seem to get us there.
Are you talking about 2015 or 2017?  In the cartoon it shows the post 2016 portfolio which I assume is if we look at 2.1 million barrels a day in 2017 and the current portfolio at 2.7 million barrels a day last year would generate the $36 billion.
So I'm trying to understand how big do you think the delta is because according to your cartoon it is only about $8 billion.
Let me just start.
So we -- if you start from a 2013 base and you look out to 2015 let me just be clear on the assumptions that we have in there.
So were moving from the 2.7 million barrels a day last year to the 3.1 million barrels a day in 2017.
The assumption on price in that slide was $110 a barrel Brent and when you get the increase in volume and you also get an accretion on the cash margin and that accretion is coming from significantly the major -- major capital projects that George has just run through predominantly Gorgon and Wheatstone are huge contributors to that.
That is really what gives you an underlying increase in upstream cash flows between what we saw at the base in 2013 and what were expecting in 2017.
On top of that there will be we believe higher contributions in cash flows from our downstream sector.
Obviously it's not as significant growth element there but there will be contributions on the chemical side and on the lubricant side and some of the R&amp;M side.
So when you put those components altogether we feel comfortable about saying under those set of assumptions particularly price and volume were going get to $50 million cash generation figure.
And I think the point thats really important here is the margin accretion that George has -- we've talked it for a couple of years here is not just on the incremental barrels it's on the full portfolio and thats really what is the compelling point here is that those projects coming online have the capacity to pull up the entire cash margin over the whole portfolio.
I appreciate the answer.
I will take it off-line with Jeff because like I say I am using your numbers and the delta looks like $8 billion but I will talk to Jeff offline.
My follow-up is really a Gorgon question George and thanks for getting on the call this morning.
You talk about start up on Train 1 but can you talk to the ramp up to Train 3? Because obviously -- you are obviously familiar with the charter that has been out there constantly while this project has been moving forward but start up is one thing but what about the ramp beyond that? Can you give us some comfort level on the pacing of Trains 2 and Trains 3 and I will leave it there?  Historically what weve said we said we saw six months between train startups.
So Ill try to give you a little more context to whats happening on train 2 and train 3 and I think very frankly its very good news on the train 2.
Modules we expect well have almost -- well I'll just say most of the modules were trying to own Barrow Island by the end of the year and we will even have a few we think of the train 3 modules.
So the module piece of the work is going quite well so its moving forward very well.
We dont see any of the module work at this point on the critical path.
So all of that puts us in a strong position to say were not seeing any slide on time between the startup of train 1 and train 2 and if anything we may even see that tighten up a little bit but its a little early to go there so but it looks good at this point and thats a real positive.
Critical for us to get  get we'll try to get it offline.
And then well answer a lot of questions.
Okay?  Thanks very much indeed.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Your question please.
Hey good afternoon guys.
The position on free cash flow is clear.
A question for George.
Staying with LNG one of your partners Apache yesterday announced plans to execute on that LNG and Wheatstone for that matter.
Any update on that project and does Apache's exit change any as how you think about the risk profile of that potential project?  Let me on -- we're -- we need to get our partnership resolved.
That means Apache needs to move through the issues and we need to get a new partner in.
That needs to happen.
Thats I think quite obvious.
As long as we keep moving forward in the assessment of the resource in Liard I feel very good about the resource assessment.
I think we already can check off our confidence level on the other resource the Horn River resources is already high.
Weve really done that appraisal so the focus on the resource side is really drilling in Liard some appraisal work there and getting some production work.
We think well have those actually those wells -- those first wells that we need to get some production data.
Were going to be complete with them somewhere near the end of the year.
So thats really important step for us.
The other pieces that were spending money on only arent related to Liard.
Theres a little bit of money on how were going to actually handle the upstream initial production and then of course weve to focus on the pipeline and the pipeline quarter.
Thats important for us.
Were putting some money into that to try to finalize a pipeline rounding it all in clearances and then weve got work at this point going on field work.
Some field work on the plant itself.
We have to understand cost and schedule on that plant.
Those are the important things.
Were not spending huge money but it is a lot of money in the sense I am sure for -- in the terms of 100s of millions of dollars.
Now its critical for us to have all of that where we can deal knowledgably with buyers.
We have to understand cost.
We have to understand resource where we can deal with the particulars of pricing but we are not going to do a project unless its economic.
Weve always told you were not going to go to FID one project till we have 16% of the gas sold.
Weve to understand the project in a good sense to do that.
So weve got to understand project.
Weve got to understand resource.
I think were moving quite well on answering the resource issue.
I am not concerned with -- if Apache leaves that there I think we could easily step in and be operator of the upstream quite confident there.
Apache has been very good to work with in this early stages of the assessment at Liard.
So I think were in good shape but we need to get clarity we need to cope we need to get the closure on the partnership and this work.
Ive mentioned we need to do all of that where we can deal with buyers and understand cost and understand economics.
We are very value driven.
Were not going to go to an FID and do a project until we have gas sales and we understand the economics of that sale.
Great thanks.
And my follow-up is if you could discuss Permian production in the quarter and just how much did that contribute to the sequential 5% increase in U.S.
volumes? And then as you think about 2015 and really bridging to the major project volumes in 2016 through 2018 do you see a scope and ability to further ramp Permian more significantly to bridge like I said the other major projects? Thanks.
Let me start with the last part of that a little bit.
Permian for us is an area we can increase investment and increase production.
We will rather ramp at a appropriate speed where we are very cost efficient on drilling and on our infrastructure.
So from that perspective it is a little bit of an asset that we can gauge and move to speed.
Specifically in the quarter I think we had a 5 000 barrel a day plus in from the Permian area that was good.
Were right now running I said 27 rigs.
Weve 14 verticals and 13 horizontals.
So thats really good.
I gave you the numbers on the slide of how many wells that have been drilled this year and I believe that was 265.
We had told you in March this year that we were going to drill 500.
You can see that we are ahead of schedule on that.
I take its related to some efficiency weve seen in the rig operations.
Weve got a grand focus on reducing cost.
This business out there is frankly about two things.
Its drilling cost getting your drilling cost down and getting your recovery up.
Weve got great focuses on both of those and like were seeing the response.
Were getting a few more wells and were getting more barrels.
We like what weve seen.
The more we continue to see that of course we are going to be more willing to push more money there.
Great.
George.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Your question please.
Hi guys.
George two questions if I could.
On both Wheatstone and Kitimat can you talk about from Chevron's position whether you have any interest to further increase your existing interest?  Paul Ill be happy to and maybe Ill for everyone on the phone Ill put in perspective a little bit.
Wheatstone and our interest is relative but to others and Ill try to do that on Kitimat.
At the Wheatstone asset level so this is Wheatstone and Iago the upstream piece of it we hold 80% of that.
Remember you have a partnership thats between Apache and KUFPEC that is Brunello Julimar online into a common facility offshore and that our investments in the Wheatstone project and the LNG portion of it is unitized if you will after that.
The fields are not but we have a joint project from a central platform a trunkline and into an LNG plant and at that point when you look at the LNG portion of it downstream that portion of it -- we are investing 64%.
Weve got all the interest we really want.
Its a high end of our interest that we would normally have in any operation.
I typically like to be when I operate in this 40% to 60% range.
So our working interest is at the high end of that and were quite comfortable.
We dont see any reason to have any more working interest in Wheatstone or other assets there.
Now speaking on Kitimat and Ill build off on some of those earlier comments.
We hold 50% of the interest in Kitimat Liard Horn River assets.
Thats right in the middle of the sweet spot where we like to be on working interest where were committing to run the projects and run operations.
What weve told the street in the past and I will reinforce this we actually hold 50% of it and I dont want any more than the 50% and we do have available some small amount of working interest that we would provide to an LNG buyer and theres always been plan for us and Apache to have some volumes that we could -- some interest that could be sold down to buyers where they would be a part of the development and they would be in the full value chain.
That has not changed and I am not looking to increase our working interest beyond the 50%.
Second question if I am looking at page 16 of the presentation next year the major projects the current expected increase is 150 000 barrels per day.
Your base operation previously assumed is at 3% underlying decline curve I assume that has not changed.
That translated to roughly about an 80 000 barrels per day job year over year.
So that means that based on this particular graph it would suggest this seems to imply your expected production growth for next year about 2% to 3% get to about 2.65.
I don't know whether you can give us a number what is your current projection for 2015 or if not can you tell us whether there is any other things that we should take into consideration in this calculation?  Paul you are good with numbers.
Okay let me speak qualitative to this.
First up we give you our commitment number guidance in January each year.
So in January 2015 well give you our guidance.
Ill only give a few qualitative comments about -- you've done the numbers right relative to the MCPs.
Our base decline is running in this 3% or less.
Thats true.
We havent yet given you guidance on two other items and I will tell you were working that at this point in time.
How many barrels are we going to have on our shale and tight? We have got investments going in shale and tight and the Permian.
Thats not in this number.
How well is Vaca Muerta going to actually perform? So weve got those two that are significant and weve got to identify those as we got through our business plan process and of course weve got another one that we havent told anyone and we havent ourselves havent decided on which assets were going to sell.
So weve got some sells that are going to occur.
We are once again value drive.
Actually I dont know which ones are the ones that were going to end up and sell.
Whats the whole value open for us versus what will someone else pay on these late life assets.
So those are the two aspects that I cant really answer at this point in time.
But we will be able to give an answer in January.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gammel from Jeffries and Company.
Your question please.
Thanks everyone.
I wanted to come back to Gorgon if I could.
George if I was interpreting your comments correctly it seems that critical path on Train 1 would be more delivering first gas on the island and commissioning work on the train itself and also the utilities.
Can you confirm that is correct? And when you think about the risks towards meeting that mid-2015 objective where would you put labor amongst those and what is your labor contract situation? I am just thinking in light of what is happening on Curtis Island right now?  Let me start off on the critical path items going for us.
ME&amp;I is critical for startup.
That is heavily dependent on labor productivity.
Weve got over 5 000 people working on the island.
Its all about for us getting as much of that effort focused on the ME&amp;I piece of it/ And I guess I would add one other thing and we dont find any unknown problem.
As we get closer and closer to startup and this is true for every project that everyone does in the world it's these unknowns that you just frankly dont know what's going to come up and is it something that is easily mitigated or is it something not and we dont ever know that until we get them all done.
The good news is that every day you get closer you eliminate more and more of them and being an 83% weve already eliminated a lot of them like logistic we know is not a critical path.
We were worried about the jetty.
Its not the critical path.
So were eliminating those every day.
Some big milestones that well report out in the following quarters.
An example of big one that we dont have the tank.
We want to make sure we got LNG tank 1 ready.
Often on LNG projects the tanks are the critical path.
Were just about to the point to say LNG tank 1 with it being complete its not going to be in the critical path.
I mentioned ME&amp;I one of the big next ones for us is the startup of our turbine generators.
Weve got all five of our generators there on the island the next big step and a big important step for us milestone is of course power.
We get the power running.
That puts us in a great position on the commissioning and thats something well talk about on our next call so well keep giving you this information as we click them off and I do encourage everyone since this being brought up again is -- take a look at some of those photos that we have.
They are -- I think they really give you a flavor of what work is being completed.
And George where do you set in terms of labor contracts -- or excuse me where do some of the contractors set in terms of their labor contracts? And do you have any changes to cost estimate? I think I know the answer to that one.
And would you expect to do a Wheatstone cost evaluation at the 50% completion mark like what you did with Gorgon?  Thats a yes.
We always do that on all our projects Jason.
Labor is very important.
We never take that for granted.
We always have a strong focus on the industry relations piece.
We do have some contracts that have to be renegotiated and of course were going to focus on making sure we deal with them where they dont become an issue.
Thanks a lot George.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John herland from Societe Generale.
Your question please.
Thank you.
I have got a couple of quick ones for you George.
With Jack/St.
Malo are you going to ramp those wells up the way you would a Miocene well since they are different? Just curious.
I would actually think that were going to probably see a little bit slower ramp up on those.
Remember these are very high pressure wells.
The last thing we want to do is do any damage to the completion.
So were going to be very focused and I would say probably a little bit on the cautious side on the ramp of these and make sure we really understand whats happening at the place of the completion.
Great thanks.
Then with the Permian you are talking about drilling a lot of wells.
Any issues with basin evacuation in terms of fluids or gas -- in terms of infrastructure.
I think it is becoming a little more challenging for the industry in total.
We feel very good about where we are and our position.
Thats one of the huge benefits for being a company thats been a large producer there for the long history of the basin.
So were in a good position on that.
I would tell you the other real positive the industry in Texas moves darn quick in solving infrastructure problems.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Your question please.
Great.
Thanks everybody.
If I could follow-up on an earlier question in terms of the pace of the onshore.
If we look at your performance I think over the past 12 months these biggest bar on the growth side was from your tight and shale assets.
You have got extremely high quality positions in the Permian and Argentina and a number of other places.
And given the volatility of performance in some international offshore assets on timing and the smoother profile and the returns on the onshore side is there a case to be made not just over the next 12 months but over the next five years to reallocate more capital in that direction and away from some of the other projects?  We had to look at it on a portfolio basis and thats what we do each and every year as we build a new three year business plan and actually a longer strategic plan.
We have a portfolio that has lots of options out there.
You can move things in and out quite easily but it takes a portfolio thats got these options available.
We do that each and every year.
We dont like to jerk any of our business around.
We would like to keep our rig counts if they are growing.
We would like to keep them growing in a gradual manner not a big spurt.
Were more efficient when we do that and of course we have to balance all that with our capital programs.
We dont have an infinite amount of capital spend.
So we try to get our capital focused on how we can get the best returns.
So were going to I guess high grade our view going forward of how we want to spend our money in our business plan each year.
We told you at our Analyst Meeting that in the next three years were going to be really capital flat pretty capital flat.
That means were going to be looking at how we get the most value out of that capital we spend.
My anticipation is that well continue to see a little more money continuing to grow go the Permian Basin but the Permian Basin or these other shale plays cannot offset the impact of these big projects either.
We need all of that in our portfolio to grow.
We must have all the big projects and frankly what the continuous plays give us.
They give us another piece thats more continuous in growth and a nice part to have in your portfolio and were going to grow that a little bit over time.
So its going to give us a little more flexibility as we go forward.
Okay.
Okay I think weve got time for just one more question here.
Certainly.
Our final question comes from the line of Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Your question please.
Thanks.
Ive two quick ones.
Youve highlighted the production uplift from the Vaca Muerta but given the headlines from Argentina this week are you reconsidering or just doing any investment?  We believe our contract and the terms we have and have them negotiated provide us appropriate cover and I am just going to leave it there.
We feel good about our investments.
The way its set up.
Were frankly pleased with the progress that were making there.
Were making good progress.
The next big thing for me is actually continuing to watch the performance of the asset and I am particularly interested in these two new sweet spots where were drilling more wells and what I want to see there is I want to see a production kick-up and then Ill feel better but I feel contractually with what weve established.
Okay that is helpful.
And on Kitimat given the pending Apache exit are you still likely to be able to reach FID by the end of this year or are we looking at 2015 at this point?  We will reach FID when we -- and were running our business there to be able to get to FID shortly after having 60% to 70% of our gas committed to an SPA a sales and purchase agreement.
That is the critical decision maker on both timing and the investment decision.
Okay.
So irrespective of what happens with Apache?  Irrespective of what happens with Apache.
Were driven by once again having a sales contracts or sale contracts that give us 60% to 70% of the gas committed and for an economic price.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Okay thank you.
Before we close the call I would like to mention that going forward we will no longer be issuing an interim update.
For those of you who have followed us for some time you will know that we have modified the format of our update over the past few years in an effort to have it be a clear and effective document.
I have to say that that effort has not met with 100% success.
Rather many investors have suggested that it has not been all that helpful or insightful and at times has added confusion rather than clarity.
Thats not a good place to be and hence our decision to stop the practice.
We do remain committed though to full disclosure and transparency and as we have in the past well strive to be very candid and clear in describing company performance in our earnings releases and our earnings call and our 10-Ks and our 10-Qs and in all of our other investor outreach activities.
I would like to thank everybody for your time today.
We truly appreciate your interest in Chevron.
Jonathan back to you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevrons second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevrons Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning and thank you Jonathan.
Welcome to Chevrons third quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Jeff Shellebarger President Chevron North America Exploration and Production; and Jeff Gustavson General Manager Investor Relations.
Well refer to the slides that are available on Chevrons website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement show here on slide two.
Turning to slide three the companys third quarter earnings were $5.6 billion or $2.95 per diluted share.
On a year-to-day basis earnings were $15.8 million or $8.29 per diluted share.
Included in this quarter's earnings were gains on asset sales of approximately $420 million and foreign exchange gains of $366 million and a non-recurring economic buyout of a long-term contract.
Taken together this equate to a positive $0.34 per share.
On the year-to-day the impact of foreign exchange movement is minimal while asset sales gains and other non-recurring charges have provided a net boost to 2014 earnings of $770 million.
There is a full reconciliation of these items on our last slide.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was 12% and our debt ratio at the end of September was 14%.
We repurchased $1.25 billion of our shares during the third quarter and in the fourth quarter we expect to repurchase the same amount.
Turning to slide four cash generated from operations was $8.7 billion during the third quarter and $25 billion year-to-date.
Cash capital expenditures were $8.3 billion for the quarter and $25.7 billion year-to-date.
Free cash flow for the quarter was $1.5 billion and year-to-date $1.9 billion.
At quarter end our cash and cash equivalents totaled $14.5 billion giving us a net debt position of $11 billion.
Slide five compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year.
Third quarter 2014 earnings were $643 million higher than third quarter 2013 results.
Foreign exchange movements positively affected earnings by $366 million during the quarter representing a swing of over $600 million between periods mostly occurring in the Upstream segment.
As a reminder foreign exchange movements for us are largely book translation effects with minimal cash flow impact.
Upstream earnings decreased by $443 million between quarters.
Lower realizations and liftings and higher operating and DD&amp;A expenses were partially offset by favorable foreign exchange movements and lower exploration expenses.
Downstream results increased by about a $1 billion driven by stronger U.S.
refining and marketing results larger gains on asset sales favorable foreign exchange movements and timing effects related to revaluation of inventory in a lower price environment.
The improvement in the other segment primarily reflects the absence of the 2013 third quarter impairment of a power-related equity affiliate.
Turning to slide six Ill now compare results for the third quarter of 2014 with the second quarter of 2014.
Third quarter earnings were approximately $70 million lower than second quarter results.
Again the earnings variance between quarters reflected a $600 million favorable movement in foreign exchange effects most of which impacted the Upstream segment.
Upstream earnings decreased by $615 million reflecting lower realizations and lower gains on asset sales partially offset by a favorable foreign exchange swing between quarters and lower exploration expenses.
Downstream earnings increased by almost $670 million driven by stronger R&amp;M results higher gains on asset sales and a positive swing in foreign exchange between quarters partially offset by lower chemical earnings.
The decrease in the other segment largely reflects corporate tax items and higher environmental expenses.
Jeff Gustavson will now take us to the comparisons by segment.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to slide seven our U.S.
Upstream earnings for the quarter were $125 million lower than second quarter results.
Lower realizations decreased earnings by $175 million consistent with the decline in U.S.
liquids and natural gas price indicators.
Higher production volumes in San Joaquin Valley in the Permian Basin increased earnings by $40 million.
Lower exploration expenses primarily associated with the deepwater Gulf of Mexico increased earnings by $95 million.
The other bar reflects the number of unrelated items.
Lower operating expenses were more than offset by the negative impact from the economic buyout of a long-term contractual obligation.
Turning to slide eight.
International Upstream earnings were $490 million lower than last quarter's results.
Lower crude low realizations decreased earnings by $420 million consistent with the decline in international crude prices between quarters.
Lower liftings primarily related to the sale of our Upstream interest in Chad decreased earnings by $95 million.
Gains on asset sales were $430 million lower also driven by the sale of our interest in Chad and Cameroon which occurred during the second quarter.
Favorable movements in foreign currency FX increased earnings by $490 million.
The third quarter had a gain of about $340 million compared to a loss of about $150 million in the second quarter.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including lower trading results and higher DD&amp;A partially offset by lower exploration expenses.
Slide nine summarizes the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the third quarter 2014 and the second quarter 2014.
Production increased by 23 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Shale and tight resources growth contributed 18 000 barrels per day driven primarily by production increases from the Midland and Delaware Basins in the Permian where new wells were brought online.
The net impact of lower turnaround activity during the quarter increased production by 23 000 barrels per day.
Planned maintenance at TCOs KTL facility in Kazakhstan in addition to Australia was completed in the second quarter while third quarter planned turnarounds including TCOs SGI SGP facility in U.K.
and Thailand were on balance less extensive than the prior quarter.
TCO SGI SGP turnaround continued through October.
Asset sales reduced production by 18 000 barrels per day principally due to the sale of producing assets in Chad.
As a reminder the production impact associated with this sale had already been incorporated in both our updated production guidance for 2014 as well as in our 2017 production target of 3.1 million barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Slide 10 compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the third quarter 2014 and the third quarter 2013.
Production was 17 000 barrels per day lower than the same period a year ago.
Excluding production entitlement effects and the production impact associated with asset sales production grew by 31 000 barrels per day between periods.
Unconventional production increased in the Permian in the Vaca Muerta in Argentina by 40 000 barrels per day.
Lower turnaround activity mainly in Trinidad and Tobago Kazakhstan and the Gulf of Mexico increased production by 19 000 barrels per day.
Production entitlement effects decreased production by 28 000 barrels per day.
The decrease in crude oil prices between periods resulted in a small increase in net production volumes primarily as a function of our production sharing contracts in Indonesia.
This increase was more than offset however by negative production entitlement effects in Kazakhstan as well as lower cost recovery volumes due to changes in absolute spending levels.
The sale of producing assets mainly in Chad reduced production by about 20 000 barrels per day.
The base business in other bar principally reflects normal field declines with a partial offset from the absence of external constraints which negatively impacted production in the third quarter of 2013.
Our base business continues to perform well with a base decline rate of less than 3% per year.
Turning to slide 11.
U.S.
Downstream results increased $292 million between quarters.
Higher volumes increased earnings by $160 million primarily reflecting the completion of planned turnaround activities at the El Segundo California refinery where four new coke drums were installed.
These new coke drums are expected to enhance the future reliability of the refinery.
Despite declining industry refining margins on both the West Coast and Gulf Coast our realized margins were $30 million higher.
Overall we benefited from more optimal sourcing of intermediates and other feedstocks following the completion of the El Segundo refinery's major turnaround in the prior quarter.
In addition we had improved reliability at both the Pascagoula Mississippi and Richmond California refineries.
Pascagoulas refinery contributed a full quarter of premium base oils production after the successful startup of its new premium base-oils plant in July.
This benefited both volumes and margins.
Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $110 million due to the absence of cost related to the shutdown and maintenance activities in the prior quarter.
Higher gains on midstream asset sales mainly the sale of a terminal in Beaumont Texas improved earnings by $115 million between the periods.
Lower chemicals results along with various smaller items decreased earnings by $123 million.
Chemicals earnings were affected by various impairments in addition to the Port Arthur Texas facility being offline since early third quarter.
Turning to slide 12 international Downstream earnings increased $374 million between quarters.
Stronger margins increased earnings by $145 million.
Falling crude prices contributed to improved refining margins across multiple refineries in addition to the completion of plan turnarounds at our Thailand and South Korea affiliate refineries.
Asia marketing margins benefited from favorable aviation price lag effects and improved retail margins.
Timing effects represented a $70 million positive earnings variance between quarters largely due to the revaluation of inventory associated with falling crude and product prices during the third quarter.
Foreign exchange gains were $105 million higher compared to the prior quarter.
The third quarter had a gain of about $20 million compared to a loss of about $85 million in the second quarter.
The other bar includes a number of unrelated items mainly higher trading results.
Jeff will now provide an update on our North America Upstream operations.
Thank you Jeff.
Its a pleasure to be on the call with you all today.
I'll provide a brief overview of our North America Upstream operations followed by a more detailed review of two key areas for us -- the Gulf of Mexico deepwater and our unconventional activities particularly those in the Permian basin.
The photo on slide 13 shows the Jack/St.
Malo facilitys safely mode on-location in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
We continue to make steady progress towards first oil later this year.
Lets turn to slide 14.
Let me start by providing a brief overview of Chevrons North America Exploration and Production Company where diverse organization made up of six business units were active in the key hydrocarbon basin across the continent.
Production has averaged 731 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Year-to-date 2014 this represents almost 30% of Chevrons total Upstream volumes.
The heart of our portfolio is our legacy based business which has generated production value creation for decades.
Asset includes our Gulf of Mexico shelf Mid-Continent conventional oil and gas operation in the San Joaquin Valley in California where our industry-leading expertises input operations has helped us achieve more than 50% recovery at the Kern River oilfield.
These robust based business assets provide a low decline high-cash generation foundation to underpin and support our current and future growth opportunities.
Next I would like to highlight two of these areas in more detail -- deepwater Gulf of Mexico and our shale and tight assets.
Slide 15 Chevron has a leading position in the Gulf of Mexico.
We are the largest leaseholder.
We currently produce about 200 000 barrels a day in the Gulf slightly more than half of which comes from our existing deepwater assets.
In the deepwater we're making good progress on our major capital projects.
Tubular Bells first oil is eminent in the next few days.
The remaining work on Jack/St.
Malo is progressing well and the project remains on track for a late fourth quarter startup.
Overall hook-up and commissioning is about 90% complete buyback gas was bought on board the facility last weekend.
We recently completed dewatering the oil export pipeline both of these are significant milestones.
Construction of the Big Foot tension leg platform is essentially complete and is ready for sail-away and offshore installations.
The Central Gulf of Mexico has currently experienced a significant Loop Current event.
These strong currents at the ocean surface are naturally occurring typically last one to three-months.
This Loop Current is particularly strong and we are monitoring for the conditions that will allow us to proceed with installation once the Loop Current subsides.
Weve taken advantage of the extra time in the construction yard to start some pre-commissioning activities normally done offshore.
Finally investment decision was announced on the Stampede project earlier this week.
On the exploration front we recently announced the significant Lower Tertiary discovery at the Guadalupe prospect in Northern Keathley Canyon.
We have also completed appraisal work at the Buckskin and Moccasin prospects and expect to move into front-end engineering and design in 2015.
We have got five deepwater drill ships operating in the Gulf two of which are focused on exploration activities where we plan to drill four to six Impact prospects over the next 12 to 18 months.
Next lets talk about shale and tight activities on slide 16.
In the Permian Basin Chevron has been active since the 20s.
We continue to be a leading producer in the basin.
We have an enviable acreage position.
We have good exposure to the key sweet spots in the basin.
Our legacy position provides critical access to infrastructure.
We are employing a disciplined value focused development strategy in the Permian.
We are not in a drill or drop situation and our low lease holding costs allow us to focus on the highest return projects in a paced matter while leveraging industry learnings.
Our efforts on lowering cost while simultaneously increasing production rates and ultimate recoveries are helping to improve overall well and program economics.
Finally we've executed joint development agreements which help optimize well placement and lateral lengths as well ensure the efficient build out of takeaway and other infrastructure.
Already high level of activities in the basin continued to increase and the efficiency programs to lower cost increase EUR are working.
We are anticipating that our 2014 unconventional production will be more than 10% higher than initially forecast and our long-term unconventional production growth continues to steepen as shown on the chart on the right.
We will provide an updated production forecast at our Analyst Day in March.
Slide 17.
Looking into the Midland Basin production has increased by 15 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or 40% during the first nine months of the year and we are on track to drill 10% more wells than originally planned for the year.
As we mentioned during the second quarter call we are transitioning towards a multi-well pad based horizontal program.
The Midland vertical wells have demonstrated that all of the identified benches are potentially productive.
Our Bradford Ranch program on the southwestern edge of the basin is a great example of our transition to horizontals.
We have drilled our first two wells.
We are now batch drilling the next four.
The first well has been completed its flowing back and will be on production next month.
At its full potential we expect up to 150 wells on this development with lateral lengths ranging from 5000 to 7500 feet.
We believe that we are well-positioned in what looks like the sweet spot at the Midland Basin horizontal play.
Slide 18.
Results from the Delaware Basin have been equally positive.
Our two nonoperated joint development areas in Culberson and Eddy counties continued to deliver excellent results.
Production has increased by approximately 20 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or 60% during the first nine months of the year and we are planning to drill 180 wells in 2014.
Our company operated Salado Draw horizontal program in Lea County New Mexico remains on track to spud its first well within the next month.
While there are multiple benches in this area we are targeting the Upper Avalon with its initial 16 well development.
With success we envision more than 60 well locations at Salado Draw.
Our recent well results give us continued optimism on the growth potential in the Delaware.
Wells drilled in the third quarter have 30-day IPs that averaged just over 1000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
I would like to close by providing an update on some of our other key North American shale and tight assets.
Lets turn to the slide 19.
Starting with the Duvernay in Canada we recently announced the sell down of 30% of our Duvernay position to Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company consistent with our risk management practices for early life assets.
They are valued partner in our Wheatstone Project and we welcome them to this exciting development.
The consideration received reflects the prospectivity and inherent value of our attractive acreage position 90% of which is in a liquids rich window.
Appraisal drilling has commenced on our first two horizontal well pads located in what we call the Central Focus Area.
In the Utica and Marcellus we have prioritized our near-term efforts into five core development areas across West Virginia and Southwestern Pennsylvania.
As we move more aggressively into the development mode pad drilling optimization of lateral lengths and completion and the build out of water infrastructure allow us to further lower cost increase recoveries and therefore enhance our overall development economics.
Let me turn it back over to Pat.
Okay.
Thank you Jeff.
In addition to the significant amount of activity going on in our North America Upstream business I would also like to touch on a few other highlights during the quarter.
In Australia we continue to make good progress on both the Gorgon and Wheatstone LNG projects.
For Gorgon which is now 87% complete all of the development wells have been successfully drilled and majority are through the completion phase.
LNG Tank #1 is through construction and testing awaiting product and LNG Tank #2 is on plan to achieve that same status by the end of January.
The five turbine generators are all installed and the jetty is essentially complete.
11 of 17 Train 2 modules have been received and installed.
The key focus in the months ahead remains in the mechanical electrical and instrumentation work scope on the island.
The Wheatstone project is now 49% complete.
The project team had a major milestone back in August with the installation of the offshore steel gravity-based structure.
The MOF or materials offloading facility is 100% operational.
The Upstream drilling campaign the fabrication of the platform site preparation and construction of the LNG tanks are all on schedule.
We are making good progress bringing these projects online both of which will be important contributors to production cash flow and earnings for decades to come.
I encourage you to review the new pictures that show progress on both projects on our investor page at chevron.com.
In Bangladesh we achieved startup at the Bibiyana Expansion Project which includes two new processing trains with an incremental design capacity of 300 million cubic feet of natural gas and 4 000 barrels of condensate per day.
Moving to the Downstream we have completed investments at several of our U.S.
refineries including El Segundo Pascagoula and Salt Lake City.
We expect these investments will lead to notable reliability and operational improvements going forward some of which were evident in the third quarters result.
Our Chevron Phillips Chemicals joint venture also continues to make good progress on its U.S.
Gulf Coast Petrochemicals Project construction of the 1.5 million metric ton ethane cracker and the two 5 000 metric ton polyethylene units is almost 25% complete.
It is on schedule and on budget.
Finally we continue to sell non-strategic assets.
Were on target for achieving $10 million in asset sale proceeds from 2014 through 2016 a goal we outlined at our Analyst Day meeting last March.
At nine-month year-to-date proceeds amount to $2.6 billion and our several other transactions lined up to close in the fourth quarter or early in the New Year.
Id like to close with a couple of thoughts about Chevron position and outlook given recent commodity price decline.
Our priorities havent changed.
By necessity we take a long-term view of prices because our investments last for decade.
We continue to believe global demand for oil and natural gas will grow while existing sources of supply will inevitably decline.
And as it is always done although with some lag we expect the industry cost structure will align to the revenue stream such that economic incentives will exist to invest in developing new energy supplies.
Our strategies have remained and will remain constant.
They are designed for long-term value creation.
Our financial priorities haven't changed.
They start with growing an attractive dividend.
Next we look to invest in economic projects that create value and allow us to sustain and grow the dividend for years to come.
Third we want to maintain a strong balance sheet precisely for times like this.
And finally any available cash is distributed to our shareholders through our share repurchase program.
Our program is scalable and could be adjusted in a period of low prices.
Well continue to make that assessment each quarter and our future actions will obviously be influenced by how low prices stay and for how long.
We remain focused on excellent execution each day and every day.
Our businesses are performing well.
Based on preliminary information it appears our Upstream and our Downstream segments were number one in earnings per barrel for the quarter.
Now of course we are cognizant of near-term price realities.
Major payout -- capital projects under construction and other nondiscretionary spend represents about one-half of our current capital budget.
Even at low prices we plan to continue funding these projects key among these are Gorgon Wheatstone and our two operated deepwater projects.
Within a year we expect to see production from three of these four projects online and theyll turn from being cash consumers into cash generators.
After that we prioritize and rank our remaining investments that are more discretionary in nature only funding those that are most competitive in the portfolio or where deferral can be achieved without economic loss.
Permian development for example remains quite attractive even at lower prices.
Now this ranking and prioritization is not a new process for us its a routine process for us.
We are also keenly focused on managing operating cost.
This too is not a new area of effort for us since oil prices have been drifting south for the past few years while costs have continued to rise.
As we showed you last March our costs are already highly competitive with our larger peers as well as a much broader set of E&amp;P companies.
Well before the recent price decline several of our international and domestic business units as well as our corporate departments already had notable cost reduction efforts underway.
Finally we plan to continue but we will be careful about managing our ongoing asset divestment and portfolio rationalization efforts.
The valuations for some assets targeted for sale are not likely to be affected by near-term circumstances but the valuations for other prospective sale assets maybe.
In all cases we will only sale if we can capture good value.
By the end of 2014 we should be well on our way to our $10 billion asset divestment target.
We still have confidence in achieving it between now and the end of 2016.
We have a great deal of experience and managing through prior price cycles in both our Upstream and Downstream businesses and we feel confident in our ability to allocate capital appropriately and to sustain a competitive cost structure even in a lower commodity price world.
Now that concludes our prepared remarks.
I appreciate you listening in this morning.
We are ready to take some questions.
Keep in mind that we do have a full queue so please try to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up if thats absolutely necessary and well do our very best to get all the questions answered.
So Jonathan please open up the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your question please.
Hi good morning.
Its actually Jason Smith on for Doug.
How are you? Oh fine Jason how are you? Good.
So Pat I think in your comments around some of the projects you had looked to move forward in the future one of ones you didn't mention is the Tengiz expansion and there has obviously been some chatter around costs and timing there.
Can you maybe just offer some color on your latest thoughts on whether this moves forward? Yeah.
So I mean obviously this is a very attractive asset for us.
Its one of the critical assets that weve got in the company strong earnings strong cash flow and it has the potential we think to grow even further.
There are two perspective elements of that project that I think are important to separate out.
One is the Wellhead Pressure Management Project.
It's really designed to keep existing capacity -- processing capacity full.
And the second is a project for the growth that really could add 250 000 to 300 000 barrels a day taking full field growth production up to around 1 million barrels a day.
So it's a very exciting project.
We are working very aggressively with our partners and with the government -- the Kazakhstan government to progress this project through to final investment decision.
We have not made a final investment decision at this point in time.
We don't have a cost estimate.
Our teams are working very hard to conclude the final engineering understand the full suite of the economic impacts here get complete alignment between our partners and the government and proceed that forward.
When we do take FID we will have a number that we can put forward.
Got it okay.
And then we appreciate all the thoughts on buybacks and dividends going forward but in the current oil price environment at least at present it looks like cash flow is not covering CapEx dividends and buybacks for the first nine months of the year.
So if we do end up in a depressed environment can you maybe just talk through what changes there? Yeah.
So I think Jason its really going to depend on the outlook that weve got on a whole series of parameters oil prices one cost structure is another length of duration of any sort of BIP or price excursion how quickly we see the cost structure amending to that.
Our capital program balance sheet health issues etc era and all of that gets taken into account when we look at our allocation of our cash uses.
The priority as Ive said before and weve been long-standing in saying this is really about being able to grow our dividend.
But in order to do that over a long period of time we need to make -- continue to make very strong investments or investments in strong projects attractive projects.
Weve got a tremendous Q and we have the opportunity to do that.
So we are going to be driven by the economics of the portfolio that we have at hand.
Were very cognizant of the risk in our business the commodity price cycle risk and weve long-standing kept a pristine balance sheet to weather through positions just like this.
We have a lot of borrowing capacity still ahead of us without putting into jeopardy our AA status.
And we are on the cusp of getting to the point where these major capital project kick in with significant volumes and significant cash generation.
So we feel very comfortable about the position that we are in and we are not bothered in a temporary sense of having to fund our shareholder distributions off of our balance sheet.
We obviously can't do that for a long period of time but that is not the window that we find ourselves in.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gammel from Jefferies.
Your question please? Thanks very much.
My question is on the Permian.
Jeff I was hoping that you might be able to at least qualitatively explain why you are seeing such a significant increase in the production levels.
And I guess if you'd just break it out between moving to longer laterals the intensity of proppant in your completions or even just higher activity levels or maybe just something else I am not thinking about.
Thanks for the question Jason.
Its really all of the above.
Maybe start back with a year ago a lot of our activity was focused on appraisal and we had some lease tenure work to do up in the Delaware with the Chesapeake acquisition.
Most of that work is done.
Thats helped us identify the sweet spots that we want to be in.
As you know the industry is innovating every single day on completions and designs.
So we are adopting those designs the pioneers to our business.
So lateral lengths are increasing stages in those lateral lengths are increasing propane amounts are increasing.
All of that is driving not only our performance for a while but the entire industrys performance for a while in an upward direction.
And then finally on top of that our activity in general with more development program has increased year-over-year and thats driving the production growth.
Great.
And I really did have a true follow-up on this one.
I think you said that the 30-day IP in the Delaware Basin was just over 1 000 barrels a day.
You may have said it but I missed it do you have a similar figure for the Midland Basin? No I dont.
I mean its a much wider distribution over there.
So we'll talk a little bit more about that at our Analyst Day meeting.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yes Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Your question please? Ryan you might have your phone on mute.
Ryan we are still not hearing you.
Maybe well try to queue him up again.
Lets move on to the next caller Jonathan.
Certainly.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Your question please? Hi Pat.
Can you hear me? I can hear you.
Thanks Paul.
Very good.
Good morning.
Pat you guided at the Analyst meeting to flat CapEx going forward.
Today you seem to be saying that you may cut it.
I'm not quite sure what the message is.
I guess if we were to stay at current prices we would anticipate lower CapEx in the future and you seem to be saying that would be -- well I'm not even sure in what areas you would lower CapEx.
Thanks.
Yes.
So what I was tying to say is and we are just in the middle of doing our business plans at the very moment and you know our process.
We go through that at this time of year.
We get approval of the Board and then we come out with our capital expenditure outlook for the year and we expect to do that.
That typically would happen in December.
So we are right in the midst of pulling all the plans together.
And obviously we are having to have some tough discussions around what do we think the price outlook is going to be? What do we think the cost structure is going to be? How much of our capital program is really in this non-discretionary must get through the phases since these projects are already under construction versus how much is discretionary?.
And so I tried in the prepared remarks to kind of walk you through that logic.
Now in the discretionary category there are areas like exploration.
Exploration would be one of the first areas that you would look to perhaps trim back in the cash flow constrained sort of mode.
There are other areas that we would look to projects that are not under construction but are in the first few phases of development.
I mean these will be projects where a deferral really doesnt result in an economic loss or value destruction.
So those are the first couple of areas that we would necessarily look.
Id call to your attention that there have been some projects where we have already done a pushback on the FID for various reasons.
So for example Rosebank was one of the areas that we deferred on the final investment decision.
We sent -- we basically took a loot at that again and said lets reassess the design construct lets reassess the economics here and frankly thats turning out quite well from a design concept standpoint as well as a reserve standpoint and that effort looks to be coming forward perhaps sometime in 2015.
We have also had -- you are probably aware with we have also had a delay in the Indonesian deepwater project because we werent able to get government approvals in the timeframe that allowed the bids that we had received and the marketing efforts that have done to be -- to remain effective.
So we are going to have to go through that cycle again.
So there have been some projects that have moved out of the current year period for their own sort of operating reasons.
Great.
And then the follow-up would be would we assume that your volume target for 2017 is regardless and viable or would you see the potential for that to need to be cut as a result of low prices? Thanks.
Yeah.
So we take Paul the other thing I tried to mention is that we take a long-term view on prices because we think overtime thats the direction the world is still going to need our product and cost are going to rise to get access to more challenged resources.
We still are on plan for the 3.1 million barrel a day production by 2017.
We have a vast majority of that volume is already under construction and we can see our way to those barrels.
You will recall perhaps that when we did put out that target back in March we also indicated that there was about a 50 000 barrel a day cushion that we put in for the unknown and the unknowable and so that is an opportunity there.
Should some of these things move in or out of the portfolio? So some things are going to move out some things are moving in.
Jeff already talked about the strength in the Permian that we've got.
So all-in our best view of the world right now is that 3.1 million barrel a day target is a good target for us.
Thank you Pat.
The other think I would say maybe is that we do when we are putting our plans together and when we are actually taking our projects to investment we obviously test our investments against a mid-price scenario but a low price scenario as well as the high-priced scenario.
And I would just say that the low price scenario that we use current prices are within that band.
Great.
And just if I could the credit rating is all important isn't it that is an important way to think about how much you would borrow? Yes.
It is credit rating is important but we are a long way from compromising our AA status and we want to keep the AA status for exactly times like this when prices fall and we are committed on projects.
Thanks.
Ill let you move on.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh from J.P.
Morgan.
Your question please.
Hi Pat.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up on Paul's question you talked about some of the areas of flexibility.
I appreciate the color there.
Specifically for 2015 you talked about the major capital projects you talked about the Permian still being attractive et cetera? So I guess I was just wondering ballpark is there a rough amount or a range you could give us in terms of your CapEx flexibility for next year is it 10%? Just any preliminary thoughts you could give us? Phil I dont really want to go down that pathway because we are -- again we are putting our budgets together right now.
I mean the areas that we would look to flex exploration its currently been three that would probably come off some.
These Phases 1 through 3 project developments that will take some declines.
If -- again if we see this price level holding.
Base business and Permian activity those are obviously very economic plays at this particular point but you could toggle those and you can toggle those without destroying value.
It would mean delaying value but you wouldnt be destroying value.
So those are all of the kinds of decision that were working through at the very moment and I don't want to get ahead of our formal plan.
Understood.
I appreciate the additional color.
My follow-up would be if we think about the levers available between the CapEx incremental asset sales buyback I mean -- I guess is it fair to say with your leverage where it is that maybe something on the CapEx and something on the asset sales would be more of a priority at this point or rank order relative to trimming the buybacks? Yeah.
Again I dont want to get ahead on that.
I think all of those avenues are open to us and its really going to be a question of how we settle out on our longer term -- medium-to-longer term view on prices and costs.
And its also going to be a function of the economic queue that weve got.
So we will take all those parameters in place.
Ill just reemphasize that we have a fair amount of leverage a lot of leverage still available to us.
So that would be taken into account as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Your questions please.
Okay.
Good morning guys.
Jeff I have -- if I could two questions one on Duvernay can you share with us the rationale behind the farm down? Is it because you think within your portfolio that this is not ranking as well or that it is a financial consideration? You just need the money so that you can accelerate the growth or that the development pace there.
And secondly that can you talk about from the Atlas acquisition that you also get the Utica acreage there.
And relative to the Chevron portfolio how do you rank those nine positions does it even have any meaningful outlook on that future within your portfolio on those? Thank you.
Hey too good questions Paul.
On the Duvernay in Canada we are very excited about that.
Its very attractive.
Its less mature than the Permian but the rocks that weve seen out there and the performance that weve seen on exploration program are good.
Chevron has been very clear about our position on risk management.
We had 100% interest in more than 300 000 acres out there.
Typically we look to form that down a bit.
It helps us manage risk.
It helps us manage across our whole portfolio.
So the sell down in that particular venture was really a part of our normal risk management process.
With respect to the Utica Southwestern Pennsylvania these are very attractive prospects.
Recall four years ago three years ago when we bought into this thing it was primarily dry gas and thats what was driving the business.
Obviously that part of our portfolio we have a lower holding cost and we pull back from that with respect to investments on the liquid rich gas side and on the deeper Utica plays.
Were very excited about those.
Again were seeing the same efficiencies in the drilling and completions up there as we see everywhere else.
Its completing for our capital and its important in our portfolio.
Just -- again I just had a quick follow-up.
Do you have any rig drilling in Utica? Yeah.
We have got one right out there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Your question please.
Yeah.
Good morning everybody and welcome Jeff.
I will leave CapEx alone but a modest silver lining on the low oil price is a positive PSC effect.
I mean can you provide any sequential impact in 3Q and maybe just talk through what the typical timing or lag effect may be there? I can take that one Evan.
This is Jeff Gustavson.
Hi Jeff.
So we didnt see the full -- we did see a net production increase in the quarter but remember prices dropped kind of late in the quarter.
So I think you see more of that in the fourth quarter assuming prices stay at the levels that they are at now.
We redo our PSC sensitivity each and every year as part of our planning process.
And right now these price levels what were showing is about 1 500 barrel a day impact for dollar change in Brent prices.
So thats a sensitivity you should be using going forward.
I would note that this quarter and we mentioned this is in the text we did have a couple of maybe one-off effects profit oil split change -- contractor versus government in Kazakhstan thats with Karachaganak.
So that was a little more of a pronounced impact plus there was some variable royalty effects with our TCO affiliate.
But going forward 1.5 thousand barrels a day per dollar change is the sensitivity you should be using.
Great.
Appreciate that.
Maybe a question for the other Jeff.
On the Permian you mentioned in your comments that it ranks highly.
So I presume it would be more insulated from any potential CapEx reduction and so that's correct.
And then you clearly have a very large position in both basins.
I didn't know if you could quantify how much you net acreage was prospective Wolfcamp Bone Springs or even lower Spraberry in Midland if you had you could share that with us? Yeah.
Well just to confirm really what Pat said the Permian does rank at the high end of our investment portfolio and it should be good at the current price environment.
It is good at the current price environment that we see.
With respect to quantifying the acreage position I think thats in the eye of the holder.
We have a large acreage position.
Its across all the different benches.
Everyday there is a new bench that looks productive out there.
What I can tell you is that the areas that we are focusing on development activity are the sweet spot as we and the industry define those things today and they are highly respected.
They are highly sort out after.
We started looking at the edges of that basin.
Other people are out there they're trying new technology.
They are testing those benches.
So I think what we are trying to do is not get out ahead of our skies on that and follow a bit appraisal work and the delineation of these things that are going on.
But we are going to stay in highly perspective areas as we pace our development programs.
Is that what drives your location estimates then or is that kind of all more all-encompassing? The total location estimate is what we see across the basin with sort of the current and some advancement of the technologies that exists.
Certainly three years ago we wouldnt have seen this kind of potential.
Three years from now it could be even better.
Yeah.
Its trending that way.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Your question please? Good morning.
Can you hear me? Hi Ed.
Yeah.
Great.
So I guess some of the discussion around CapEx apart from oil prices comes from the slide at the Analyst Day this year where obviously you demonstrated that cash flow was going to come on from the major projects from the work that Mike Wirth has been doing in the Downstream and then obviously the shale contribution.
But CapEx was going to stay relatively high to drive growth I guess beyond and into 2020.
And the shade I see is sort of it $37 billion to $40 billion which is I guess more similar to this year.
So I'm trying to get a sense of what projects you were including in that sort of 2017 timeframe.
You have mentioned Kitimat IDD Tengiz.
How much of a contribution was there in that year if you can share that with us so we can get a sense of where the adjusted CapEx might be? Im not sure that I completely understand the question here.
You are looking at 2017 I'm looking at how much of Kitimat and IDD and Tengiz you were resuming in that sort of 2017 outlook that you gave us so that we can -- if they do delay not at Tengiz but Kitimat and IDD perhaps how much you would save? Yeah.
I think for all of those you would be talking about modest contributions in the 2017 time period.
Yeah.
So I dont think its an impactful element in terms of hitting that target.
Right on the CapEx side.
No I was talking on the production side Im sorry.
So you are talking on the CapEx side.
But we didnt give a 2017 target.
We did show you that slide that had cash from operations growing and C&amp;E being more contained relative to cash from operations.
We still stand by that overall profile.
It is our distinct content to widen out our free cash flow over time once we get into the cash generation phase of these critical projects.
Weve been in this very unusual capital intensive phase with Gorgon and Wheatstone and these large projects right on the heels of under we are coming off of that.
LNGs spending this year is going to probably the peak LNG spending $10 billion to $11 billion.
It will trail off in 2015.
It will trail off again in 2016.
And we dont have that kind of sequential large projects queued up in the -- beyond that time period.
So well come out with a revised target on future year C&amp;E as best we can in March at the Analyst Day meeting.
Okay.
And then one for Jeff.
The 20% CAGR if I calculated that right in the Permian is obviously quite impressive for any independent or major what are the constraints? I mean the resource is clearly there.
What are the constraints on perhaps even going faster perhaps as you get out into the second half of the decade in the Permian? Okay.
Well I think the basin itself if you look back the last three years its certainly capable of demonstrating that growth potential.
I think we are up 0.5 million we are almost 3 million barrels a day as an industry in that basin.
The constraints are what everybody talks about its just basic stuff like the labor force out there.
Thats been challenged.
Its a boom time out there.
Water is a area of concern for some people.
We work hard on that in terms of moving from fresh water to brackish non-potable drinking water securing those supplies and the infrastructure around that.
Sand has been an issue but I think the service companies and others are starting to address that supply chain issue.
I think the real uncertainty for me is just how high that activity could go and what would be the knock-on effects of that but you got to look at there is a lot of companies in there and the current price environment maybe some of that stabilizes out.
I dont see the activity levels that we see being at risk from takeaway capacity or really the contractors ability to deliver and thats one thing that we take into consideration when we look at our pace of investment.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Asit Sen from Cowen and Company.
Your question please.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Two quick ones here.
First could you update us on Kitimat? The potential timing of FID looks like at least one competing project is getting delayed.
And secondly could you update us on any labor productivity items on the West Coast of Australia in light of recent union agreement on Curtis Island? In other words are things getting better? I could give a quick update on Kitimat.
I will let Pat talk about Australia.
So Apache has announced their intent to fully exit the project.
We are still committed to this project.
We think that the low cost potentially prolific reserves up in the Liard and Horn River are going to make an attractive LNG project in time.
We have been very clear that we will not take FID at this project until we have gas contract signed and we know that we have got a value adding economic project.
With respect to FID we havent given a data on that and we continue to do the feed work on the plant the plant site.
We continue to work with the government of British Columbia.
We are encouraged by the recent news thats come out of there with respect to how they want to treat LNG in taxes but our primary focus up there is really the appraisal and the delineation work that weve got going on in the Liard Basin.
Okay.
And with regard to the union contract issue in Australia at this point in time we know that there has been a Downstream agreement reached in-principal with certain construction unions and that it still needs to be put to a vote to the -- by the union membership.
So we have agreement at the leadership level but we still need to vote at the union member level.
Frankly there is more dialogue in the press about challenges union-related challenges for us on this project than there have been reality on the ground.
So the project continues to make a good progress here.
And I guess one of the exciting things that I would just mention we didnt put it in the formal remarks but we have secured I guess I will call it a float-tel I am not sure what the right hoteling accommodation nomenclature is but weve got the capacity over the next several weeks to bring overtime about 1200 additional workers to the island to work on the MEI work thats underway that needs to be done in the next year.
So thats a good boost we think in productivity for that.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Iain Reid from BMO.
Your question please.
Hi there.
Pat I wonder if you could give me an update on the Wheatstone budget.
Its I think about 49% through now in terms of spend.
Is it time now that we get a kind of a complete updates in terms of how much that project is going to cost? Right.
I mean at this point.
Yes youre right.
Were about 49% complete.
It is a typical process for us to go through and do a mid project to update.
I dont have a specific calendar date for that but it would be a reasonable thing that we would do anytime between 40% and 60% when the project is done.
So I would say thats coming but I dont have a specific date as to when that will be completed.
Okay.
And maybe as a follow-up on another big international asset Angola LNG.
Can you give us a kind of cost to repair and some schedule for re-startup of that project? Sure.
I can talk a little bit about the schedule side of things but there is not a cost estimate that I am available -- that I have available to give to you.
Let me just make sure we are just a 36% partner in a consortium here.
We are not a controlling entity to work through the partnership there.
But in terms of the progress on the repair work we continue to make good progress there.
We do at this point anticipate an initial restart somewhere around the middle of 2015.
And after initial performance testing as it is typical that plant will go down.
For a couple of month period of time where we clean out and remove the strainer clean out the filter et cetera then it will be brought back online.
And we anticipate restarting and working towards sustained production levels late in 2015.
Did that answer your question? Yeah.
No it did.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
All right.
Ill guess well take the next caller.
Our next question comes from the line of Allen Good from Morningstar.
Your question please.
Good morning everyone.
A couple on the Permian.
First of all when you look around you benchmark yourself against maybe some of your smaller peers there on operating costs and other efficiency metrics.
How do you see yourself backing up? And then secondly on the new projections for growth would it be -- does it imply a commensurate step-up in spending as well or have you been able to achieve some capital efficiency improvements from your initial projections that suggest that spending won't quite increase as much as the production is?  Yeah.
Good questions.
We benchmark ourselves all the time.
We benchmark ourselves with respect to cost efficiency or finding the development cost et cetera et cetera.
A year and a half ago we were probably down at the lower end of our competition part of that was because we were new in the basin and part of that was because we were focused on the appraisal in some of the other work to really understand what's going on in the basin and these new areas.
And we made a concentrated effort in that area over the last 14 to 16 months.
Weve made significant improvement in our execution efficiency our cost-efficiency.
Today I would say were probably in the mid-upper part of the second quartile.
Our performance targets here to be the top of the heat there and were making very very good progress on getting there.
With respect to how were improving and what's going on there I mean its really a host of thing.
Certainly we are seeing capital efficiency in what were doing.
So weve been able to drill more wells with the same amount of money.
Were seeing efficiencies in our completion.
But I think even more important to that moving to horizontal wells moving to longer lateral length moving to more stages our acreage position allows us to do that and were going to see more of an impact on that in our production forecast than probably anything else.
Hey great.
Thanks.
And just one quick follow-up.
Was the Duvernay sell down was that included in the original $10 billion estimate of asset sales and then is there any potential upside for that figure over the next couple years? Yes.
So we wouldnt really talk to what included or excluded in our overall target.
Obviously its a significant component there.
And in terms of future I think your second question was is there future effort in that regard? I think thats .
I mean do you think there is -- I'm sorry.
Is there upside to that $10 billion figure? Now that you've gone through it a little bit and progressed through do you see upside from your initial estimate? So I think thats going to be a function of what the market is going to allow.
We have certain assets which weve tried to describe that are either early in life or late in life.
We know what those assets are and well as I said only go for the sales when we can get good value.
So it will be a function of what the market will look forward at that point in time.
But were on track for the $10 billion.
We can see our way to that almost at this point in time.
Certainly this year 2014 or maybe there will be some slippage into first quarter 2015 of some of the transactions that Ive line of sight on.
But I feel very good about what we fit at this point in time.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Your question please.
Thanks for taking the question.
Two quick ones on LNG.
First in relation to Kitimat.
With the tax announcement from the BC government earlier this month is that still a hurdle or are you pretty satisfied with how that went?  Well thats just one element of our investment decision.
I think that what were satisfied with is that the British Colombia Government is very attentive to the realities of the industry.
Theyve listened to what weve said.
They listened to what the buyers have said.
And I think theyve made some very good moves in terms of what reality is out there and what it takes to make these projects economic.
I mean there are -- weve got to work a whole lot of other issues between now and FID.
And I think they'll remain.
Our view is that they will continue to remain flexible in those discussions.
Okay.
And then you mentioned you want to sign offtakes for Kitimat before FID but you also have some remaining capacity at Gorgon which as I understand is still not covered by offtake.
Are you prioritizing one versus the other if a particular customer is open to either option? Well I think the fundamental driver there is that the volumes would be available under different time frame.
I mean Gorgon production starts in a year from now and ramps up with three trains over the subsequent years.
Kitimat was going to be in a much longer term horizon there.
Just speaking to the Gorgon unallocated volumes or uncontracted volume at this point time yes we are sitting at about 65%.
We did have notionally some of that volume earmarked for as a backstop behind IDD from a customer arrangement standpoint.
Now that the Indonesian deepwater is no longer going forward on that same development time plan we are available to take some of those volumes that we had earmarked there and market them.
And thats exactly what we're doing now.
Okay.
Thats useful.
I appreciate it.
Okay.
So I think that ends our queue at this particular point in time.
So I'd like to thank everybody on the call for your interest in Chevron and your participation with questions.
We wish you a good day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevrons third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathon and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevrons Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation Mr.
John Watson.
Please go ahead.
Well thanks Jonathan.
Welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington our Chief Financial Officer; and Jeff Gustavson the General Manager of Investor Relations.
Well refer to the slides that are available on our Web site.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement on Slide 2.
Turning to Slide 3 I'd like to highlight some of our key accomplishments for the year starting with safety environmental performance.
We had our best year ever and virtually every measure of personal safety process safety and environmental performance.
We expect to lead the industry again.
Although commodities prices fell sharply late in the year our overall financial performance was strong upstream and downstream had solid years overall and both ended the year with very good reliability.
We had excellent progress on our asset divestment program with significant well-timed upstream sales in Chad and in Canada and high valuation mid-stream transactions.
In the first year of the program we finalized just under $6 billion in investments versus the $10 billion three year target for the period 2014 to 2016 we'll update this target at our March meeting.
Looking at our downstream business we completed important liability investments at several of our key refineries which contributed to high utilization rates in the second half of the year.
We became the world's largest premium base oil producer with the start-up of a 25 000 barrel per day plant at our Pascagoula Mississippi refinery.
We continued to make progress on our U.S.
Gulf Coast petrochemicals project through Chevron Phillips Chemical Company our 50% owned affiliate.
It is now 50% complete.
Moving to the upstream business we started Jack/St.
Malo which is ramping up ahead of plan and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico.
In Bangladesh we successfully expanded production at the Bibiyana field.
On our LNG projects in Australia Gorgon is now 90% complete we're targeting first gas into the system around the middle of the year and first LNG sales this year.
Wheatstone made excellent progress and it's 55% complete and on-track for late 2016 start-up.
We've posted a number of photos highlighting our construction progress on these two important projects on our investor webpage.
We progressed development of our shale and tight resource holdings notably in the Permian.
We had one of our best years from an exploration and resource capture standpoint with 35 discoveries at a 66% success rate.
We added 1.4 billion oil equivalent barrels with significant conventional and unconventional adds.
We had two potential hub class discoveries in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and we announced the transaction yesterday to consolidate holdings around one of them.
Our one year reserve replacement ratio was 89% taking our five year replacement ratio to 96%.
With that I'll turn it over to Pat who'll take you through our financial results.
Pat? All right thanks John.
Slide 4 provides an overview of our financial performance the Company's fourth quarter earnings were $3.5 billion or $1.85 per diluted share.
For the year earnings were 19.2 billion this equates to a $10.14 per diluted share.
Return on capital employed was 11% and our debt ratio at year-end was 15%.
2014 marked the 27th consecutive that weve increased our dividend payment.
Given the change in market conditions we are suspending our share repurchase program for 2015.
Turning to Slide 5 cash generated from operations was 6.5 billion for the fourth quarter.
For the full year cash from operations totaled 31.5 billion.
Cash capital expenditures were 9.7 billion for the quarter and 35.4 billion for the full year.
At year end our cash and cash equivalents totaled more than $13 billion giving us a net debt position of about 15 billion.
Slide 6 compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year.
Fourth quarter 2014 earnings were approximately $1.5 billion lower than fourth quarter 2013 result.
Upstream earnings decreased to 2.2 billion between quarters.
Lower crude realizations and asset impairments driven by the sharp decline in crude oil prices during the second half of the year and higher DD&amp;A charges were partially offset by higher gains on asset sales and lower exploration expenses.
Downstream results increased by 1.1 billion driven by stronger international refining and marketing margins higher gains on asset sales and favorable timing effects.
The decrease in the other segment primarily reflected higher corporate charges and tax items.
Turning to Slide 7 I'll now compare results for the fourth quarter of 2014 with the third quarter of 2014.
Fourth quarter earnings were $2.1 billion lower than third quarter results.
Upstream earnings decreased by approximately 2 billion reflecting lower realizations and asset impairments partially offset by higher gains on asset sales and more favorable foreign exchange effect.
Downstream earnings increased by 130 million driven by favorable timing effects and gains on asset sales partially offset by higher operating expenses and a one-time economic buyout of a legacy pension obligation.
The decrease in the other segment largely reflected higher corporate charges.
Moving to Slide 8 our U.S.
upstream earnings for both the fourth quarter were about 500 million lower than third quarter results.
Lower liquids realizations decreased earnings by 600 million consistent with the approximate 25% decline in the U.S.
liquids prices indicators between periods.
The decline in prices also triggered impairments of several smaller assets which negatively affected earnings by 90 million.
Higher gains on asset sales improved earnings by 160 million.
The other bar reflects the number of unrelated items including unfavorable tax effects which were more than offset by the absence of the economic buyout of a long-term contractual transportation obligation in the third quarter.
Turning to Slide 9 international upstream earnings were about 1.5 billion lower than last quarter's results.
Lower crude oil prices negatively impacted earnings by $1.4 billion.
Our average international crude oil realizations were down $25 per barrel between quarters consistent with the decline in Brent prices.
The significant drop in prices triggered impairment for several late-in-life assets decreasing earnings by 570 million between periods.
Higher operating cost reduced earnings by 110 million.
Gains on asset sales increased earnings by 670 million mainly driven by the farm-down of a 30% interest in our Duvernay shale interest in Canada as well as the sale of our upstream business in the Netherlands.
Slide 10 summarizes the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the fourth quarter and third quarter of 2014.
Net production increased by 14 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Major capital projects start ups and growth from shale and tight resource developments contributed 13 000 barrels per day.
Project start-ups included the expansion of the Bibiyana field in Bangladesh as well as the start up of Tubular Bells and Jack/St.
Malo in the U.S.
deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Jack/St.
Malo achieved first production in December on-time and on-budget.
Entitlement effects increased production by 13 000 barrels per day between the quarters.
Lower crude prices increased volumes under production sharing and variable royalty contracts partially offset by lower cost recovery volumes.
Higher plant turnaround activity at TCO's Tengiz SGI/SGP facility in Kazakhstan early in the quarter and turnaround activity in Thailand and in Australia decreased production by 19 000 barrels per day.
Asset sales in the Netherlands South Texas and Norway negatively affected production by 11 000 barrels per day between quarters.
The increase of 18 000 barrels per day in the base business in other bar reflects primarily higher reliability from Tengiz following the previously mentioned turnarounds completed earlier in the quarter.
Slide 11 compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between 2014 and 2013.
Net production declined by 26 000 barrels per day during 2014 compared to the prior year.
Shale and tight production increased by 41 000 barrels per day driven primarily by growth in the Midland and Delaware basins in the Permian as well as the Vaca Muerta in Argentina.
Ramp up associated with Papa-Terra in Brazil and the expansion of the Bibiyana field in Bangladesh increased production by 13 000 barrels per day.
Production entitlement effects decreased production by 14 000 barrels per day.
Price effects were positive due to the decrease in crude oil prices of almost $10 per barrel between years.
This were more than offset however by negative entitlement effects in Kazakhstan and lower cost recovery volumes in Bangladesh and Indonesia.
Assets sales decreased production by 12 000 barrels a day due primarily to the sale of our Chad asset earlier in the year.
The base business in other bar principally reflects normal field declines partially offset by base business investments in Nigeria in the San Joaquin Valley and in the Gulf of Mexico.
Our base business continues to perform well with a managed decline rate of less than 3% per year.
Turning to Slide 12 U.S.
downstream results increased $80 million between quarters.
Realized margins decreased earnings by 190 million.
Refining margins were weaker on both the West and the Gulf Coast as the decrease in product prices outpaced the decline in crude oil prices.
This reflected abundant supply high inventories and lower seasonal demand.
Timing effects represented $195 million improvement in earnings between the quarters largely driven by year-end inventory effects and marking to market on derivatives tied to underlying physical positions.
Higher gains on mid-stream asset sales improved earnings by 210 million.
The other bar consists of several unrelated items mainly unfavorable tax effects and higher operating expenses primarily associated with planned shutdown activity.
Turning to Slide 13 international downstream earnings increased by $51 million between quarters.
Higher margins particularly in Asia increased earnings by 280 million.
Refining margins benefited from falling crude prices while marketing margins were supported by favorable price lag effects for naphtha and jet fuel.
Inventory effects represented $100 million improvement in earnings between quarters mostly reflecting favorable year-end LIFO impacts.
A one-time charge related to the buyout of a legacy pension liability decreased earnings by 160 million.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items including higher operating expenses and unfavorable foreign currency effects.
With that I'll turn it back to John for a few comments on 2015.
Okay thanks Pat.
Turning to Slide 14 earlier today we announced the $35 billion capital program for 2015.
This is $5 million or 13% lower than last year excluding expenditures by affiliates the cash component of this program is 31 billion.
This program is lower than we signaled last March and is responsive to current market conditions.
It funds key projects where we've taken final investment decision and are already under construction.
In the upstream this amount is approximately $14 billion representative of the dark blue on this chart.
It includes monies for Gorgon Wheatstone Jack/St.
Malo Big Foot and others.
This category of spend will decline in the future as projects are completed.
Base business and shale spending in medium blue on the chart is about 12 billion.
A portion of this base business spend includes critical and maintenance reliability work which has limited flexibility.
The majority of the base spend including shale and tight is being screened at current prices.
We have increasing flexibility in this component of spend as the year progresses.
Spending on Pre-FID projects and exploration work is being high graded paced and significantly reduced in response to market conditions.
Downstream spending of $3 billion is limited to key projects under construction such as the Gulf Coast chemical project which by the way is 35% complete I think I said 50% earlier 35% complete.
And also the spending in the downstream is also limited to critical reliability and maintenance work.
Turning to Slide 15 we've reduced our capital budget for the year conserving cash and preserving value.
We also are reducing the costs of goods and services and operating expenses.
We enter this period of lower prices with a very competitive cost structure.
We routinely show you a chart that tracks total cost per barrel in our upstream business relative to our competitors.
You've seen we are industry-leader and we have significant cost reduction efforts underway.
This chart shows the IHS upstream cost index industry costs have more than doubled in the last decade.
Market conditions will create surplus capacity in most key supply chain categories and drive rates lower.
We are actively engaged with all suppliers and have enjoyed early success.
We expect the opportunity will grow with time and particularly so if prices remain low.
We're also taking action to reduce internal costs.
You may have seen press coverage of staffing adjustments in the UK and Pennsylvania.
We have other reviews under way in multiple other operating and corporate units.
Managing cost aggressively is not new to us Mike Wirth was quite successful in making significant reductions in the downstream in recent years and if you go back and look at our financial statements in 2008 and 2009 you'll see that we took operating and administrative cost down $4 billion or about 15% between years in response to that brief price excursion.
We know how to manage costs.
Our production guidance is the range of flat to 3% growth the uncertainty is the reflection of market conditions.
I'll highlight several of those uncertainties.
First we've had great success in the base business area limiting decline in mature fields to 3% or less in many years.
Our shale programs in the Permian and elsewhere continued but I have indicated we're screening the spend at current prices.
I have also indicated we're active in our efforts with vendors and suppliers to reduce costs.
The uncertainty in prices and the costs of goods and services creates some uncertainty in the amount of base business investment and the decline rate and growth from our shale resources.
Second we've had success in our asset sale program.
The full year effect of last year's sales reduces production 22 000 barrels a day from 2014.
There is uncertainty in the timing and precise composition of this year's asset sale program creating uncertainty in the additional volume impact.
Remember we're driven on all sales by value and this can influence timing.
Finally the contributions from major capital project ramp ups and start ups this year is significant but relatively small movement in the timing of deepwater development wells at Jack/St.
Malo Tubular Bells or Papa-Terra can make a significant difference in annual production.
Similarly small movements in restart dates for Angola LNG or start up of Gorgon and other new projects can cause variation.
Finally production sharing contract and other entitlement effects are sensitive to prices and spend levels.
Our 3.1 million barrel a day target for 2017 remains on-track as the major projects under construction drive that outcome.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I appreciate your listening in this morning we're now ready to take some questions.
Keep in mind that we do have a full queue so please try to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up if necessary.
We'll do our best to get all of your questions answered.
So Jonathan please open up the lines and we will take some questions.
John I just want to ask about taking FID in the current price environment.
You spoke about how you were beginning to see cost savings from your providers and is that something where you would probably just try to delay making an FID to see how that type of negotiation goes with suppliers or do you expect that you will actually have some fairly significant FIDs this year? And I am really thinking Tengizs expansion as much as anything else here? And I think that's the key one to focus on if you look -- we have many projects that are in concept development and frontend engineering and design.
And so the overall economics of some of them are impacted by the current price environment but the project at Tengiz is a good project and that project will ultimately go forward.
And we've made significant progress and have good line up with our partners on that.
But we're taking the opportunity in the current price environment to take a look at contracts take a look at spend and see if we can bring costs down further.
Now we have in the plan and expectation that we will take final investment decision later in the year in 2015.
Other than that I can't think of too many significant projects where we're likely to take FID this year.
And then just as a follow-up John do you have any deflation built into the capital budget for 2015 or is it all reduced activity levels? Well it's a little bit of both Jason we do have -- I think for example we've dropped over 20 rigs which is about 15% of our worldwide rig count.
So as I said we're screening projects based on the current level of prices if the return is near at hand.
So if you have short cycle based business or shale investments and they don't meet investment hurdles at current prices which is the revenue you're likely to realize we're pulling them from the program and we've cut rigs all over the world.
Now many things continue to pass the hurdle and so were continuing with our development.
For example our work in the Permian passes is the hurdle.
And so we're continuing that and have had good success.
But we're also taking on costs in a fairly big way if you look around the world.
Rigs get a lot of attention but that's actually not the biggest category of spend.
EPC cost well construction services transportation the fab yards are going to empty out here and rigs.
We're taking on all of these things and we have a centralized procurement organization as well as a lot of people in our unit that are taking advantage of the opportunity in spare capacity and the supply chain.
It varies considerably depending upon the category of spend that we're talking about and the precise timing.
On rigs we had one offer in one location around the world of a 50% reduction in rig rate.
We've already captured retroactive January 1 rig reductions in some areas.
So we're taking this on a big way and we have targets.
We've baked in a little bit into our numbers but this is a very fast moving market and the longer this downturn persists the more were likely to capture and the more it will be reflected in the major categories of spend like EPC cost and major fab yard spending that we might make on projects.
Sure.
Sir Ed Westlake.
John so I mean just the high level picture and yes-no answer probably has anything changed to your view that oil demand is growing? And has anything changed about the decline rates that you feel the industry has to overcome? Yes.
Overall the general picture that I've laid out here before and we've talked about is that as long as the world economy grows there's a reasonable correlation between world economic growth and growth in energy demand.
If the world economy grows 3% to 4% we tend to see 1% to 2% growth in energy consumption.
In our view maybe 1% for oil 2% for gas over that time period so that general picture hasnt changed.
Now it can be influenced in the short run by macro events and prices and things of that sort.
One of the things that we're trying to get a handle on and that others are looking at is how responsive will global demand be to the price reduction.
If you look at some of those who follows very closely they could see increases from 3 000 to 5 000 barrels a day from lower prices but you've also got countries around the world that are reducing demand side subsidies and things of that sort.
So it's a function of economics and it depends how long this persists.
Truck sales in the U.S.
are doing pretty well right now so I think we get a bump from lower prices and I think we'll see growth of perhaps a 1 million barrels a day in demand worldwide in 2015 but that number can move around a little bit.
And then specifically Gorgon you've kind of reiterated the timetable I mean can you give us any nuggets to give you confidence that we will get that first gas in Gorgon mid-year and the first LNG cargo this year? Well I'd tell you that there's nothing at the higher priority for us right now than that Ed.
And as I said we're 90% complete.
We've got 8 000 people on the site right now that's a little more than we might have thought in the past.
We've brought in a bigger combination vessel and so we have put more people on site.
We've made terrific progress on the upstream side basically all 18 wells have been drilled all upstream subsea infrastructure is in place pipeline installation is complete.
You can see a lot of this on the Web site so those things are good.
So we're working all those things really hard.
We've got really mechanical electrical instrumentation work that's in high gear right now and we're basically milestone driven and commissioning and starting up systems right now.
And that's really our focus.
We're monitoring very closely contractor performance and productivity on the Island we're working with the unions on contracts and industrial relations.
We've been able to manage through those things fairly well and we're planning for a flawless start up commissioning and start-up process.
We've got risks of adverse weather that are there but look we're shooting to get gas into the system in the middle of the year timeframe and get some cargos out this year.
That's our focus.
George and Jay Johnson are heading down there here in February so when we come back in March at the Analyst Meeting we'll have some very fresh information for you.
Can I just come back to the chat on CapEx I'm just trying to get a feel for how the different buckets of CapEx are moving year on year so the base business and the projects under construction where the big revisions are? Spending has come down $5 billion overall some of that is in LNG spend.
It was a little over $10 billion in 2014 in total it's a little over $8 billion planned in 2015 so that's a little bit of the spend.
Deepwater spend is relatively flat.
Shale and tight spend is a little bit higher but some of our other base business spend is down.
We've got about 10% to 15% reduction in exploration expense between years.
And of course we also have those mid cycle projects those that are in concept design or engineering that there are fewer of those there's little less spend in those categories this year than in the past so we're working very hard on all of those costs.
And of course you may be asking about how do those categories look going forward? And we do expect growing flexibility in our spend as we move forward.
One of the things we'll show you in March when we get there is that that bottom bar those projects under construction the $14 billion that number comes down in time.
The LNG spend this year and next will continue to be significant but as we get to 2017 its under $100 billion so I expect you'll see some reduction in that category.
Now we may take FID on some projects so you may have some additional spend in that category but in principal there's a very high roll-off rate from that category of projects under construction.
The base business spend is a function of both economics and how much we can wring out of the system from a cost point of view so there's activity and there is the cost of that activity and I commented on some of the sort of trends that we're seeing in that category.
I will say exploration we're going to continue to explore.
We had fabulous success particularly towards the end of 2014 in the Gulf of Mexico where the couple of discoveries and the transaction we had with a couple of other players in the business.
So we'll continue to high grade that activity but we have growing flexibility in all categories is I guess the comment Id like to leave you with.
Could you give us some sort of sense of about as you droll down that base versus payments in 2015 what impact that might have on underlying decline rates in the business? Yes I think that it is a risk for the industry I think I've commented earlier I think that is a growing risk for the industry.
If you go back to 2008 and 2009 period and this is a hard number to get at but we saw an increase worldwide in decline rates for all companies basically for the entire industry.
Increase by a 1% or 2% and thats very significant.
We've done a good job of keeping decline rates to 3% or less I think weve got a good chance to do that but obviously when you cut some rigs you have some risk of a higher decline rate in 2015 relative to past years.
My question is just to follow-up on CapEx and I appreciate that it is a fluid process yet on your current guidance today where do you expect the production impact? I mean it doesn't appear to impact the guide for 2015 at least in the high-end? I mean is it altering that 2017 guide or is it really much more long dated impact given being in a longer cycle time of a lot of your resource? Yes Evan you just said the impact is predominantly over the longer term because we're continuing with the projects under construction and we're deferring some projects and spend that will have some impact on production but it's generally outside the window the window that we're talking about.
For example the Tengiz project will be a good project but its not going produce volumes inside the 2017 window.
Similarly when you cut make reductions in exploration spend you're not going impact a production inside the window.
So I would think of most of it as being a long dated impact.
And the 3% the 15 production guidance that's on current prices I presume? Assuming no asset sales is I guess how I read the sensitivity.
Obviously there is PSC effect there in asset sales? Is that correct? That is based on current prices current strip? It is I think it really governs the full range it's a pretty good range frankly normally we've given point estimates but there are a lot of moving categories this time.
So it really encompasses the range of outcomes that are possible based on where we are today.
For example as you point out at lower prices you do get a benefit in some of our PSC agreements from those lower prices where you spend money it takes more barrels to repay cost for example on cost barrels.
But the flip side is that you may spend less and so there will be less to recover for example we are reducing spend and have cut some rigs in Indonesia in response to economic.
So you do have some offsets in these categories and of course depending upon when you make asset sales that has a direct impact on volumes.
And just a follow-up if I could you mentioned you continue to monitor and be responsive to market conditions so I presume that further cuts would be responsive to a deterioration in market conditions.
And then I guess you gave -- I like the classification on Slide 14.
I guess how much of the $12 billion base is being spent in 15 on shorter cycle that may be more controllable if conditions warranted? Well virtually everything in that category is shorter cycle activity there are some critical maintenance and reliability investments that we will continue to make same thing in the downstream.
You need to keep your facilities running and in good shape.
So there is a category that I would say is inflexible that is in the base business.
Although the cost of delivering those goods and services may go down during the period the activity itself will continue from an activity point of view as time goes by and rig contracts roll off we have growing flexibility in this category.
I mean ultimately you have a great deal of flexibility in this category of spend.
But as I say and we'll be responsive to market conditions and screen activity out if it doesnt meet our thresholds.
If I could follow-up with a question on pricing in the current environment between the changes in the LNG market that we've seen in terms of where LNG is coming from in particular potentially a ramp in U.S.
supply and then the reduction the collapse that we've seen in oil price are you seeing anything in potential LNG market pricing either for existing projects or for future projects any change in the trends? Any change in trends well the trend has been a very fluid environment and a very frankly there has been a lot pressure on LNG pricing both in response to immediate conditions and response to the projects that have gone to FID around the world.
So there is pressure on LNG markets.
Notwithstanding that we did signed a contract during this period that's an oil linked contract with a reputable company for a medium term slice of volume towards the end of the decade which gets us up into the range where we feel pretty good about the projects Gorgon and Wheatstone where we will basically be at our target for sales will be between 75% and 80% on Gorgon and 85% for Wheatstone.
So were feeling pretty good shape.
We obviously need good contracts that to underpin new developments.
So one of the projects that were pacing until we can see conditions that will support a project is at Kitimat in Canada were continuing with some of the work we have underway to delineate the resource and reach agreements with First Nations people and permitting and things of that sort.
But were significantly pacing the spend of that project and well get alignment on it and have good alignment in early days with Woodside which is replaced Apache.
Other than that I think there is I think people are pretty cautious right now in the LNG market.
Our view is its not clear that all the Greenfield projects that are being contemplated can meet economic hurdles at some of the prices were seeing.
And demand is out there.
Maybe speaking of Kitimat that's a good transition to a second question which is from a high-level strategic view when you look out from here over the next 10 years has your view of the future changed at all in the sense that when you look back I guess over the last 10 are there projects business models efforts that have been part of your business model in the last five to 10 years that when you look forward over the next 10 you think just may not work anymore whether it's large-scale gas projects or oil sands or any type of -- I guess your views at high level on changes in the industry over the next 10 versus the last 10? My basic view that in fact was referenced in the question which was asked earlier is energy demand continues to grow and if you look at the decline curve thats inherent in our business and lets talk about the oil side for a moment.
Oil fields decline worldwide roughly 15% a year without investment.
The industry works very hard with base business investments to attenuate that decline every year but still you do get declines of 3% to 5% industry-wide.
So you need new oil fields to meet demand.
The 3% to 5% decline on 90 plus million barrel a day base is significant.
So you need investments in new fields and $50 does not support large new field developments and what I would call the big volumes that are going to contribute to meeting demand whether its oil sands deepwater arent supportive of the 50 bucks.
So thats why youre seeing forward prices and most in the industry expecting to see some rebound in prices because we simply wont be able to support those projects at those kinds of prices.
Now there in the short run when you have supply that is exceeding demand in our business short run supply and demand are not very responsive to prices so it takes that decline kicking in or action by OPEC or a stronger economic growth to close that gap and thats what it will be required here over the next period of time to get prices into a range where they can support the sorts of projects that youre referencing.
Our view is those forces are at work right now and we can debate when that gap will close but the forces are working with every announcement of C&amp;E cuts its more likely to happen sooner.
So my basic view is the world needs energy and the prices have to support the activity and of course we monitor the cost environment that were in.
We can see short run reductions in costs that can make projects more economic but in general the projects that are going to meet demand going forward are more complex than 20 or 30 years ago and so the cost of those projects will be higher and require higher price than were seeing today to meet the volume targets.
Probably a long explanation but thats how we think of it.
John often times that risks also come opportunity and especially that you foresee maybe longer that potentially that you could have distressed assets out there in the U.S.
and maybe also overseas.
So from a high level how do you guys look at under that circumstances I mean how much are you willing to use your balance sheet or perhaps that risk in your balance sheet a little bit and also that to use perhaps your currency not necessary at the best point that you want but will you be willing to also use it in a decent sized transaction? Well we -- old times Paul you and I've talked many times over the years we're a depleting resource business so we have to acquire leases discovered resource and frankly companies overtime.
And we're very targeted in how we do that and we have tried to be commercially smart and take advantage of the opportunities when there's less competition for those assets.
So we are actively screening the opportunities that are out there and we'll take advantage of opportunities that we see I mean a one that's on the smaller end of the scale but just a couple of days ago we did announce a consolidating transaction in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico with a couple of partners.
And we think we've acquired resource at a competitive cost relative to exploration costs and so -- and there are benefits to all parties from working to develop a common set of assets together in one hub but that's -- so we do take a look at the opportunities that are before us.
Now I have to tell you our priority right now isnt acquisitions.
Our priority at the moment is completing the projects that are under construction.
And we do have balance sheet parameters that we work within to do that but you point out on a relative basis we've got a pretty good currency and we're mindful of the opportunities that's there.
Can I just follow-on a quick question that in your supply costs any rough idea of what is the percent of your supply contract whether it is rig EPC those have a duration longer than two years.
So in other words what is the percentage of your cost base both in capital and operating costs that potentially we could see the benefit from the deflationary environment that expecting over the next 12 to 18 months? We have a number of contracts that roll-off during that period.
I would say by the time you get to 2017 almost all spend becomes variable if you will so in fact a lot of it this year rolls off.
Now we do have deepwater rig contracts that have been staggered and go out a few years.
We do have fabrication contracts that have already been led they can go out several years but the vast majority of the spend going forward if you look out to say 2017 the vast majority of that spend will be reflective of current market conditions.
John from this level are you saying that you expect CapEx to go lower and do we now say that the 3.1 million barrel a day 2017 target for volumes is gone? And one query I would have about that is it was previously lowered because of an assumption that oil prices would be higher.
If you recall your previous planning assumption had been I think $79 and it was the move up to a higher price that caused you to lower the target.
Wouldn't that be a reverse effect down here? Thanks.
Yes well I did reaffirm the 3.1 in my comments earlier so I have reaffirmed that target.
And I will say there are quite a few moving parts in getting to the 3.1.
First most of the growth between now and then in underpinned by Gorgon Wheatstone Jack/St.
Malo Big Foot Mafumeira Sul and others that are under construction.
And I've indicated we're continuing to fund that spending.
We have had over the years some changes in the composition of the remainder of the volumes that contribute to the 3.1 for example we've previously flagged in response to U.S.
gas prices we had reduced spend in that area.
On the other side the Permian wasnt in our plans when you go way back to 2010 and volumes coming from that area or higher.
There has been a big change in prices and price effects as I indicated earlier can impact volumes.
Other things being equal there is a contribution if we get to 2017 and prices are much lower there will be a positive contribution that's inherent in that 3.1.
The other side as I also commented is that we have fewer -- we have less impact from that if our spend goes down in places like Indonesia and finally we have asset sales that can influence that target but as we see it today with all those effects some that are positive some that are negative we still see that 3.1 target.
John just I guess what I am driving at is that based on the 35 would you think you could come lower on the 35 billion of spending and still make the 3.1 and would you manage towards the 3.1 is that what you are saying because I guess you do have a view No that's specifically not what I'm saying.
What I'm saying is that we have always -- the volume has always been an outcome.
It's always been an outcome.
We make decision based on economics.
What I'm telling you is that I see the outcome being 3.1 because 80% to 90% of the volume increase between now and then are the projects that are under construction.
And we make the investment decisions on our best view of go forward economics and in response to the best value propositions that we can see.
The precise level of spend going forward the only thing I'll flag as you know I've been reticent to talk about C&amp;E going forward and this last year is a perfect illustration as to why.
We have a lot of moving parts many of which I have described.
We also have currency movements and uncertainties we have growing flexibility in our spend going forward.
And if the kind of price environments we see the day persists you will see lower spending absolutely.
I mean guess what I was driving at is that you had previously guided towards the flat CapEx from the previous 40 level in order to meet the 3.1.
I think what you're now saying is you can still meet the 3.1 and we could even then still see lower CapEx again in meeting the 3.1.
Or do I think about it that you are potentially not going to meet the 3.1 and bring down CapEx appropriately with the oil price? I think the outcome is a function of spend that is largely already committed as one of the questions earlier commented is there much volume effect for some of the cuts most of the volume effect will be after 2017 because there are these longer cycle projects where we're taking a pause and trying to work the costs spend.
So you know very well Paul we are in a long cycle business and so if you defer longer term projects now it will mean lower production than you might otherwise have seen beyond the target date of 2017.
So there is an impact beyond 2017 of the decisions that we're making today but because we have all these projects in flight we dont see a significant impact to our target beyond the fact as I talked about before of base business spend timing of asset sales and quantity of assets sales cost barrel effects and things of that sort.
And a very quick one could you indicate how high you think that can go in order to then allow you still to maintain your targeted credit rating? Thanks.
I'm going to let my CFO talk about the balance sheet and credit ratings.
Yes and Paul we have a lot of borrowing capacity still available to us we ended the year with a 15% debt ratio and there is a lot of appetite in the capital markets for our debt and under the scenarios that we're talking about here in this price range with this capital program we anticipate still being very nicely within the double A band and after you get through 2015 really and you look ahead obviously we're going see more production growth.
John talked about the flexibility that we've got as time rolls on with our capital program we talked about and we do believe that there will some recovery in oil price we dont know at what level or exactly how quickly and there will be adjustments to our cost structure.
So we feel very comfortable with the position that we're in and John referenced earlier managing within certain constraints and one of the balance sheet constraint is maintaining a strong AA.
Is there a rule of thumb for how much that you can have and still be AA? I dont think there is rule of thumb because the rating agencies take into account not only what your financial parameters are but also what's your operating parameters are and what's your prospects for future cash flow generation really are so it's a combination of what the overall business plan so to speak for the enterprises if the rating agencies take into account.
But suffice it to say we have incremental borrowing capacity of several-several 10s of billions of dollars there.
First question is just kind of following up.
In terms of trying to achieve dividend coverage and how you think about when you can get there full 100% dividend coverage any color you can provide about how you kind of bridge to that? Because it looks like this year kind of the shortfall in the free cash flow and then the dividend you add that up it's maybe $15 billion to $20 billion so anything you could n provide around that.
It sounds like operating costs you've highlighted maybe $4 billion of opportunity but just generally how you are thinking about that? Sure our plan is to cover the dividend in 2017.
And we won't do it this year in all likelihood and in fact we flagged that if you go back two or three years or three to four years we have said in fact it was in response to questions around our balance sheet at that time where we had more cash than debt on the balance sheet and a lot of you were encouraging us to repurchase more shares and to really take advantage of the lower cost of debt and we said look our primary case may not be falling oil price.
But we've got a lot of projects under construction and we're in a commodity business and we need to be able withstand the ups and downs of our business and so what I said at that time is that we would be restoring our balance sheet to something that might be a more normal level for AA credit rating as time goes by and these projects roll off.
So when you get the reason I say 2017 is our production will grow between now and then by about 20% and so at whatever price level we're at we'll see benefits to free cash flow from that I have talked about the flexibility in the activity level that we have which can moderate spend and bring us back into balance.
And then of course as you mentioned the cost reduction efforts that we have underway both in the supply chain and internally will help us attenuate that.
Finally bridging us and helping us on the balance sheet are the contributions from assets sales and you saw we got off to a pretty good start in the program this year but we've flagged and indicated that even at higher price that we were going to use our balance sheet and we were going to use a little of it this year than perhaps would have been the case with higher prices but were able to attenuate that over a couple of years.
So just a clarification on that then with the strip in the low 60s is it fair to say that your production growth later in the strip take out 4 billion cost you would actually plug the CapEx to get to a level that carries within that? Im not going to give you a specific price forecast Ill just say that the boundary conditions that were operating under and these are things Pat has talked to you many times the boundary conditions the dividend is the highest priority of spend for us and we want to keep sufficient flexibility on our balance sheet to withstand the ups and downs in the commodity market.
So we will work very hard on CapEx and OpEx in order to get balanced in a couple of years.
Okay.
And just my follow-up question is there anything in the production guidance for 2015 for Gorgon and for Angola LNG at this point or would execution on that timing wise be upside to the guidance just how to think about and the update on the Angola LNG in general? Well there is a scenario where we can be to the upside of the range that weve indicated but frankly Im a little gun-shy on that sort of thing given the kind of the operating environment that were in right now given oil prices are and potential adjustments to spend.
So yes we expect to see volumes from those assets this year.
The exact timing brings in some variability but our plan is to have both of those contributing volumes this year.
Just a question about your onshore drilling activity you seem to be maintaining or increasing your drilling in the Permian whereas some of the other companies seem to be deferring it on the basis that it will be worth more in a couple years time by leaving it in the ground.
Just kind of interested in your take on that versus what you are planning? Well we have about 30 rigs running in the Permian and we continue to screen the economics of both I think what I said is our spend on unconventionals will be in shale will be higher this year than last.
But that encompasses our worldwide activity that we expect to see.
So were still by the way weve had some terrific performance in the Permian and part of the reason were able to do that is weve been able to dramatically reduce cost.
When we get ahead to March at our Analyst Meeting well give you a fair amount of information on how were doing some of the horizontal pad drilling programs that were putting in place were seeing very-very good early results.
But we need to see good returns on these things to make investments.
And so Ill just say we do expect some recovery in prices as the year moves on but if we end up in a depressed environment we can make adjustment to that.
Remember a lot of our volume in that area we benefit from no royalty and thats a big competitive advantage as you get down where others might be at the margin more than we are.
Were in pretty good shape because we dont have royalty and weve got a long-long queue available to us.
Okay just one other thing I heard what you said on Wheatstone in terms of schedule.
I just wonder though where you are in terms of budget and CapEx.
Is there any update you can give us on that relative to the original budget because we haven't had a project update for that one? No were still operating under the current appropriation request that we approve which is the -- the Wheatstone project was a $29 billion U.S.
project and weve had some ups and downs frankly right now were benefiting from currency movements if you -- the Australian dollar I think is around $0.78 so were benefiting from that.
Weve had some ups and downs there but -- and have used some of the contingency in the project but were still operating within that same appropriation request.
John you've done a -- you've obviously got a tough job of trying to manage through the cycle and if you look at the near-term growth I think you've been pretty clear that that is pretty much prefunded with the commitments you've got going on.
But once you get to 2017 once you've delivered your target assuming an oil price range which is lower than we have had in the last five years how do you think about the trade-off between continued growth versus other uses of cash like a return to buybacks? And what's on my mind is over the last 10 years before the growth phase the share prices did just fine in a relatively flat production profile over that 10-year period? So that's my first question.
I've got a related follow-up please.
Well I guess Id say volume has always been an outcome of our views about the quality of the investments that we available to us and that will continue to govern our decisions.
If we wind up in a lower price environment in 2017 that we might have thought we would be in a year ago I think there will be contributing factors to that one will be costs.
And so we dont make decisions to invest based on our volume target we make decisions to invest based on our perception of the value that's available to us.
There were confluents of events that resulted in several significant projects coming together at the same time.
We had lease retention issues we had good gas contracts available to us for example on Wheatstone.
We've had a moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico which is good things.
And so -- and you had lease commitments and things of that sort so you would not only choose to have all those projects be together but we've felt individually they were good and we felt we had the capacity to handle them.
And we're starting to see them deliver today and frankly if you look at our -- for all the talk about these projects Gorgon and Wheatstone are 30 year to 40 year projects and didnt come online yet.
And when they come online and over the cycle I'm very comfortable that the economics will be just fine and they'll be prolific contributors to the Company for years to come.
And all these new projects also have follow-on opportunities to them because we typically -- first phases of projects dont result in all the resource being developed and the incremental economics are better.
Our priority around spend has been pretty clear.
One we're going to pay the dividend and we're going to increase it as the pattern of earnings and cash flow permit.
And we'll invest to do that.
And we'll do that within the parameters of our balance sheet.
We have viewed share repurchases at the Flywheel and the Flywheel is -- was available to us.
We have cautiously spread out share repurchases over time so we've tried not to just be in for a short period of time we were in for a longer period of time.
But obviously with the price environment we're seeing we're discontinuing that program.
But if we get to a circumstance where we're generating cash flow we dont see the opportunities we get no reticence at all to repurchase shares if we think that's a better opportunity for us.
My follow-up and I will be quick I realize we are at the top of the hour but it's kind of more of a macro question.
It's going to be a tough one to answer.
But when we think about Chevron's role as a global player 1.9 million barrels a day of oil and the operated obviously is a lot bigger than that do you think that Chevron has been representative of big oil and non-OPEC meets a certain oil price environment to maintain flat production what would that number be for Chevron? In other words to hold production flat close to the start-up of the major projects can you hold flat at 50 or 60 or 70? What do you think that number is now? I will leave it there.
Well Doug you're right it is a tough question.
If we're in a $50 world there will not be -- just as I said at a macro level around the world I dont see many investments that are going to go with the fiscal terms we see in place today with the cost levels we see today.
I see very few major oil projects going forward.
There will be incremental investments on existing projects to mitigate the decline there will be some shale investments that maybe economic but I dont know for example around the world of full cycle of economics deepwater projects that go at $50 at the current cost structure.
I dont know of new oil sands volumes that can come on at $50 and there are oil fields in decline everywhere so I just dont see that.
Now cost can adjust fiscal terms can adjust and so it's hard to speak definitively for a very long period of time but it is very clear that the incremental barrels are coming from more complex developments overtime.
With all the enthusiasm around shale I think it's important to remember it's 4 million barrels a day out of a 92 million barrel base.
And you're going to see the rate of growth in that volume was due to slow and you're going to see a reduction in that rate of growth in response to current prices.
I think we're at the end of our time I thank you very much for the questions.
That -- and in closing wed just say we appreciate everyone's participation.
I especially want to thank the analysts on behalf of all participants.
We look forward to seeing you at our March Security Analyst Meeting so Jonathan thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen my name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I'll now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington please go ahead.
Okay thank you Jonathan.
Welcome to Chevron's first quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Jeff Gustavson and Frank Mount who are currently transitioning the General Manager of Investor Relations role.
We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide 2.
Slide 3 provides an overview of our financial performance.
The Company's first quarter earnings were $2.6 billion or $1.37 per diluted share.
Excluding gains from asset sales foreign exchange effects and other special items earnings were $0.76 per diluted share or $1.4 billion.
This is a better outcome than the decline in commodity prices would have implied.
This is because operationally it was a very solid quarter for both upstream and downstream.
Production volumes were strong and downstream asset utilization and reliability were high plus operating cost control was evident throughout the enterprise.
Return on capital employed for the trailing 12 months was approximately 10% and our debt ratio at quarter end was 18%.
During the first quarter we paid $2 billion in dividend.
Earlier in the week we announced a dividend of $1.07 per share payable to shareholders of record as of May 19.
We currently yield about 3.8%.
Turning to slide 4.
Cash generated from operations was $2.3 billion for the first quarter.
This reflected lower upstream results due to the sharp decline in commodity prices as well as negative working capital effects of approximately $2 billion.
The majority of the working capital effects are temporary in nature and we expect these to reserve in future quarters.
These impacts were only partially offset by strong cash generation from our downstream and chemicals businesses.
In the quarter proceeds from asset sales totaled approximately $950 million the majority of which related to the sale of our interest in multiple offshore and onshore leases in Nigeria.
In February the Company successfully executed a $6 billion bond offering.
Cash capital expenditures were $7.6 billion for the quarter a decrease of approximately 11% from first quarter 2014 and over 20% lower than fourth quarter.
At quarter-end our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $13 billion and our net debt position was about $21 billion.
Slide 5 compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year.
First quarter 2015 earnings were approximately $1.9 billion lower than first quarter 2014 results.
Upstream earnings decreased $2.7 billion between quarters; significantly lower crude realizations were partially offset by positive foreign exchange effects higher gains on asset sales and favorable tax items.
Foreign exchange gains in the first quarter were substantial $580 million in total.
As a reminder most of our foreign exchange impacts stem from balance sheet translations and do not generally affect cash.
Downstream results increased by over $700 million primarily driven by stronger worldwide refining and marketing margins.
Operationally first quarter results were amongst the very best we've had in several years a perfect combination of margin strength and improved refining reliability.
The variance in the other segment was primarily associated with the absence of an impaired recognized in first quarter 2014 following sustation [ph] of certain mining operations primarily offset by higher tax and other corporate charges.
Turning to slide 6 I'll now compare results for the first quarter 2015 with the fourth quarter of 2014.
First quarter earnings were approximately $900 million lower than fourth quarter results.
Upstream earnings decreased by approximately $1.1 billion between quarters reflecting lower realizations and assets on gains partially offset by lower impairments and operating costs.
Downstream earnings were lower by $95 million stronger U.S.
margins and lower operating expenses across the global systems were more than offset by the absence of gains on asset sales recognized in the fourth quarter and an unfavorable swing and timing effects between quarters.
The variance in the other segment largely reflects lower corporate charges.
Jeff will now take us through the comparisons by segment.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to slide 7.
Our U.S.
upstream earnings for the first quarter were about $900 million lower than fourth quarter's results.
Sharply lower liquids realizations decreased earnings by $735 million our crude and liquids realizations all dropped by approximately 35% between periods.
Gains on asset sales were lower by $330 million.
In the fourth quarter we recognized a gain following the sale of our interests in certain LPG pipeline assets which are associated with the upstream segment.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items.
Lower operating and exploration expenses were partially offset by higher depreciation charges including impairments for several smaller assets.
Turning to slide 8.
International upstream earnings were about $200 million lower than last quarter's results.
Significantly lower crude prices impacted earnings by $1.3 billion.
Our average international crude realizations were down over 30% between quarters consistent with the decline in Brent prices.
Lower operating expenses across multiple countries increased earnings by $335 million.
In March the U.K.
government implemented a change in the petroleum tax law retroactive to the beginning of the year which resulted in a one-time deferred tax benefit of $350 million.
The absence of impairments from the prior quarter increased earnings by $570 million while lower gains on asset sales this quarter decreased earnings by $360 million.
The other bar included multiple components.
Two notable drivers for this positive variance were stronger liftings and foreign exchange effects.
Slide 9 summarizes the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the first quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter of 2014.
Net production increased by almost 100 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Price effects increased production by 55 000 barrels per day as lower crude prices increased cost recovery and other volumes associated with production sharing and variable royalty contracts.
Major capital project ramp ups at Jack/St.
Malo and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico and from the expansion of the Bibiyana Field in Bangladesh increased production by 42 000 barrels per day.
Plant turnaround activity was heavy in the fourth quarter particularly at our SGI/SGP facilities in Kazakhstan as well as in Thailand and Australia.
First quarter by contrast was much lighter in planned maintenance and this accounted for higher production of 36 000 barrels per day between periods.
Growth from shale and tight assets primarily in the Permian contributed 10 000 barrels per day.
External constrains primarily lower gas demands in Southeast Asia as well as weather-related impacts decreased production by 18 000 barrels per day.
The remaining variance in the base business and other bar reflects greater unplanned downtime in other non-related items.
Slide 10 compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the first quarter 2015 and the first quarter 2014.
Net production increased by 93 000 barrels per day between periods.
Price effects increased production by 71 000 barrels per day due to the roughly 50% drop in crude prices between periods.
Last year Brent averaged $108 per barrel in the first quarter.
This year Brent averaged $54 per barrel in the first quarter.
Shale and tight production increased by 43 000 barrels per day due to growth in the Midland and Delaware Basins in the Permian as well as in the Vaca Muerta Shale in Argentina.
Major capital projects increased production by 35 000 barrels per day.
Production ramp-ups in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico Bangladesh Trinidad and Brazil were all positives.
The shutdown of Angola LNG which occurred subsequent to last year's first quarter partially offset these increases.
Asset sales resulted in loss production of 34 000 barrels per day principally driven by divestments of our assets in Chad and in the Netherlands.
The decrease of 22 000 barrels per day in the base business and other bar primarily reflects normal field declines partially offset by lower turnaround activity and unplanned downtime.
Our base business continues to perform well with the managed decline rate below our existing guidance.
First quarter net production rate of 2.681 million barrels per day is a strong start to the year and is above the flat to 3% growth range we indicated in January as our production guidance.
While this is above our guidance it is important to remember that we have maintenance turnarounds and asset sales plans for later in the year.
I would also like to comment on an issue we mentioned in our 10-K about our operations in the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait where we produced 76 000 barrels per day net in the first quarter.
It now appears more likely that our future production levels in the Partitioned Zone could be negatively impacted due to our inability to secure work and equipment permits.
The potential for a shutdown of production was not anticipated in our flat to 3% guidance range.
We do not know for sure how production impact will occur and if does occur we cannot estimate its duration.
In any case we estimate that the 2015 financial impact from a potential shutdown would be minimal.
Turning to slide 11.
US downstream results decreased $183 million between quarters.
Importantly the operational results noted in the green bars were over $500 million stronger between periods.
Margins increased earnings by $435 million driven by unplanned industry downtime and tight product supply on the US West Coast.
US Gulf Coast margins were also strong reflecting industry refinery maintenance patterns and strong seasonal demand.
Lower operating expenses increased earnings by $110 million primarily associated with reduced turnaround in maintenance activities.
Timing effects represented a $250 million decrease to earnings mainly due to the absence of positive year-end inventory effects recognized in the fourth quarter and unfavorable mark-to-market swings between quarters on derivatives tied to underlying physical assets.
The absence of gains on asset transactions from the prior quarter decreased earnings by $460 million.
Turning to slide 12.
International downstream earnings improved by $88 million between quarters.
Lower margins decreased earnings by $70 million.
Marketing margins fell largely the result of product pricing lag effects evident in both Asia and Australia.
Reduced operating expenses increased earnings by $120 million.
Timing effects represented a $215 million decrease to earnings.
As in the US segment this represented the absence of favorable year-end inventory effects booked in the fourth quarter and adverse swings between the quarters and mark-to-market valuations on derivatives tied to underlying physical assets.
The absence of one-time charge in fourth quarter related the economic buyout of a legacy pension liability increased earnings by $160 million.
The other bar reflects a number of unrelated items.
The largest single component was favorable foreign currency effects.
With that Id like to now turn it back to Pat.
All right thanks Jeff.
Turning now to slide 13.
In response to the downturn we are aggressively pursuing cost savings.
Excluding fuel operating cost in the first quarter are down 13% from the average 2014 quarter.
To-date we have completed more than 2 200 supplier engagements with 700 more in progress.
Were working across all spend categories to negotiate supplier reductions and to rebid contracts when sufficient reductions have not been offered.
The results have been encouraging with over $900 million of contract savings already negotiated.
The pie chart shows upstream spend categories [00:00:57] our supplier cost reduction effort and the $900 million quoted is enterprise-wide.
This represents cash savings we expect to capture in 2015.
Well see it show up as the year unfolds in multiple ways; lower operating expenses reduced capital outlays and decreases in cost of goods sold.
Spend categories closer to the Wellhead and activities with the shorter term contracts as well as shorter cycle times from order date to delivery date are seeing the sharpest declines.
Were also seeing more immediate responsiveness from suppliers supporting our US operations.
Looking externally for improvements is only part of addressing our cost structure.
Were also reengineering our internal work processes initiating organization reviews rightsizing our work teams to better match spend and activity levels and all of this to align with current market conditions.
Our objective is a simpler more efficient more productive and affordable organization that directly supports our business priorities.
Finally we are pursuing capital and operating efficiencies throughout the organization getting more for each dollar of spend.
In the upstream we are applying our experience with running manufacturing type operations to our shale and tight developments in the US and elsewhere.
This is driving significant efficiency improvements and lowering the costs of our horizontal well programs in both the Midland and Delaware basins.
In the downstream we are using tools like Lean Six Sigma to improve efficiency throughout our operations and one specific example weve shortened the downtime by 30% associated with terminal and tank inspection and maintenance activities which should lead to sizeable cost savings over time.
Turning to slide 14.
You recall a key commitment from our March presentation related to covering our dividend in 2017 from free cash flow.
We outlined how we intended to do that and I like to put a few of our accomplishments into that context.
Cash flow growth is a near-term priority.
While absolute prices in the first quarter were not favorable our production was.
Base business performance was strong and our base decline rate was less than 2%.
We also continue to ramp up at Jack/St.
Malo in the Gulf of Mexico.
The fifth well is now online and growth production is up to over 70 000 barrels per day of oil equivalent exceeding initial expectations.
We completed some critical milestones on the Gorgon and Wheatstone LNG projects in Australia.
At Gorgon we started up the first gas turbine generator successfully an important step in the overall plant commissioning process.
At Wheatstone we successfully installed the topside for the offshore platform -- production platform.
We have posted new pictures today and a video of both projects will be posted early next week.
I encourage you to look at these on our investor website at chevron.com.
And finally our downstream and chemicals business is performing very well.
We do think spend is our second priority.
Ive already talked through the cost structure savings were pursuing.
In addition to that were on a clear path to reduce capital spending over the next several years as our major capital projects come online and our spending flexibility increases.
Budgeted capital spending is planned at $35 billion this year a 13% reduction from 2014.
Cash spending is down -- this quarter is down 11% from first quarter a year ago.
By 2017 we expect to have over $8 billion in additional C&amp;E flexibility compared to 2015.
And finally were making excellent progress on our asset sales.
We realized almost $6 billion in proceeds last year and will be adding nearly $4 billion to that in the first four months of this year with a recently completed lease sales in Nigeria and the divestiture of Caltex Australia.
In 16 months weve achieved almost $10 billion in total sales proceeds versus a $15 billion 48-month target.
We will continue to sell assets when we can generate good value.
Moving to slide 15 I would like to close by reiterating the near-term value proposition that Chevron offers.
We expect to deliver industry-leading volume growth between now and 2017.
That growth is sourced from Gorgon and Wheatstone in Australia Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot in the Gulf of Mexico and Mafumeira Sul and Angola LNG in Angola.
In addition we are poised for a significant growth in our shale and tight resources particularly in the Permian in the US.
On top of the pure volume growth we also offer margin expansion.
The cash margins associated with these projects primarily in the orange portion of the shaded bar are projected higher than our cash margins today and many significant leasehold.
By 2017 we expect our cash margins on our overall portfolio to increase by approximately 35% from where they are today assuming $60 average Brent price this year and $70 average Brent price in 2017 which is consistent with current futures prices.
We believe that our outsized volume growth combined with outsized margin should lead to outsized value growth for our shareholders.
That concludes our prepared remarks and I appreciate you listening in this morning.
We are now ready to take some questions.
Please keep in mind that we already have a full queue so try to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up if necessary and we will do our best to get all of your questions answered.
So Jonathan please open the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Your question please.
Good morning Pat and congratulations Jeff on the move and welcome to Frank.
Just I guess the question around cash flow to start with.
Thanks for shouting out the working capital I think the market would have had kittens if it was a $2 billion CFO number.
I mean obviously if you have net income and DD&amp;A you get a high number but I presume some of the deltas or things like dividends from associates being less than net income and the timing of tax payments if there is any color on that? But my general question is how does this cash flow stack up against your internal expectations for the quarter appreciate obviously the oil price is very low.
And has anything changed in terms of your cash flow projections going forward in what you see as a more normalized oil price? Okay yeah thanks Ed appreciate the question and I appreciate everybodys interest in cash.
Youre right.
So it was a low cash from operations quarter but we did have $2 billion of adverse working capital effects so if you added those back we would be at about $4.3 billion.
What I would say is if you looked at our sensitivity on oil price relative to prior quarters and look at it this quarter this very much is in-line and in fact its actually a little bit stronger than just a pure sensitivity would suggest.
Ill just mention the number again for everybody its somewhere between $325 million and $350 million per dollar Brent change.
So weve had a significant drop in Brent prices and therefore a significant drop in earnings as well as cash flow.
Youre absolutely right Ed that there were some decrements relative to normal quarters in terms of the amount of affiliate distributions that we received.
This quarter was I would say pretty minimal in terms of that.
We do expect that to turnaround in the subsequent three quarters so thats just a timing issue.
In terms of how this looks relative to our plan going forward if you recall the numbers that we showed you in March the slides that we showed you with financial projections all assumed a $60 world for Brent and I think were exactly in that phase.
And so I look at our profile this year in terms of how earnings have come in and cash have come in and assuming we end up at a $60 world for Brent which looks very reasonable given where the futures markets are than I think we are exactly on plan and very consistent with the cash profile that we showed you back in March.
And youll recall for everybody that we did have a significant deficit anticipated in 2015 and then we showed you the pattern of how we would move out of that deficit out to 2017 getting full coverage of our dividend by 2017.
I mentioned the asset sales that we have the first quarter was nearly $1 billion and here in April already we have the sale as well.
So already through four months we've got a significant contribution of about $4 billion.
So asset sales are a key component there as well.
Thank you.
I think I asked three questions in one.
So I will defer to the next in line.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Your question please.
Good morning Pat Jeff.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So Pat I wanted you to talk through the dividend here and just how we're thinking about dividend growth historically youve raised the dividend in the second quarter earlier this week.
You kept it flat so want to see if this represents the departure from the views on dividend growth or maybe just the change in the timing on when you evaluate it? It's a good question Neil and let me just start by saying that maintaining a competitive and growing dividend is our number one priority.
That has not changed.
Our financial priorities have not changed but what has changed is our immediate financial environment the near-term environment has changed and so the board chose not to increase the dividend this quarter.
It is similar to what we did back in 2008 and 2009 when prices last fell significantly.
We are supporting a 3.8% yield but clearly we are not running very strongly on earnings or cash flow at the moment due to commodity prices.
I think its fair to say that the first quarter was not a very stable financial environment it was very fluid in terms of both revenues and costs.
And so I think our overall decision is going to be based on what we feel is affordable and supportable in perpetuity because we don't want to get into a position where we are having to cut the dividend or trim the dividend in anyway.
And therefore the timing and the size of an increase will be a function of how cash and earnings and asset sales or major capital projects execution and frankly future commodity prices I mean that is a significant factor how those all play out in the coming quarters.
And really how we see commodity prices playing out over a longer sweep of time.
All of those factors will influence that decision.
Thanks Pat.
And then want to come back to your point on the neutral zone.
And I think Jeff you made the point that the financial impact would be limited or immaterial.
The number you shadowed out there represents about 3% of your volumes so curious as to why earnings impact could be immaterial is that because the margins associated with those barrels could be lower and just a broader status update on the [indiscernible] field would be helpful as well.
Yes.
So essentially you are right.
The financial impact is minimal because of the relationship to margins essentially.
And then on the steamflood status it was our -- we did have steam breakthroughs so we did have success in that pilot.
It was our expectation it is our expectation to go into feed later this year perhaps around the third quarter but obviously depending upon circumstances and how they unfold over the next few weeks and these discussions between Saudi and the Kuwaitis on the partition zone.
It could be  there could be somewhat of an impact there.
I will say that there are discussions that are ongoing underway because this is obviously a very serious circumstance and it's being taken seriously.
So we put a lot of could and potential and words like that in our language because we really don't know and the hope is that this can get solved we are optimistic that this can get solved.
Thank you Pat.
And Jeff congratulations.
Thank you Neil.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Your question please.
Hey.
Good morning Pat.
Congrats Jeff and Frank.
First question is just on the OpEx.
Thank you for the helpful color on that front.
I guess what I'm wondering is as we think about how the first quarter progressed on a year-over-year or a quarter-over-quarter basis and what you called out relative to I believe it was Johns commentary last quarter I think the last cycle you talked about a $4 billion saved number kind of where do you think you are in those structural sales opportunities and how we should sequentially be thinking about this as we look at 2Q and the second half? Right.
I think that our profile at least what we've seen so far in the first quarter with all of the concerted and systematic effort that we've got underway throughout the entire enterprise I feel that we should have really good operating expense trends as we move through the remaining three quarters of the year.
We are seeing cost reductions over a whole series of cost categories anywhere from 10% to 20% and some of that of course will end up in OpEx spend some of that will end up in capital expenditures lower capital outlays but I would just say from the response on the part of suppliers the intensity with which we are pursuing this the fact that if we are not getting the cost reductions that we are anticipating from a given supplier that we are willing to move market share and have done so all of that I think bodes very well for our bottom line and our cash spend really over the course of subsequent periods here.
So just a clarification.
If you were to maybe put it in terms of innings like what you actually realized in the first quarter because I think the OpEx is down $600 million year-over-year so I am just trying make that for with $4 billion number and think about how far along you are versus are you actually in the early stages? I think we're in the very early stages in terms of what has been recognized in the first quarter results.
So I think there is a lot of potential still to come.
This is Jeff.
Just to be clear the $4 billion was a 2009 number.
What we saw back in 2009 nothing that we put out here recently.
Understood.
Just on -- my second question is on CPChem.
I think there has been some discussion out there about the potential to maybe officially leverage that balance sheet.
So maybe you could just talk about your thoughts on that and whether there's any potential of that in 2015? Okay sure.
In the past CPChem has held debt.
And then they've gone through a period here where they were generating tremendous amounts of cash and dividending that to their parents.
Now they are in a position where they have investment opportunities through that US Gulf Coast cracker project and so it would not be unreasonable to think that they would go into the debt market in order to fund some of their investment opportunities.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Your question please.
Hey good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Yeah thanks for the comment on the dividend and maybe I will kind of try further there.
I know in 2009 you raised the dividend in July of your typical kind of April-May period for the raise after a moderate commodity recovery.
I know there are many factors and the board ultimately sets the dividend.
What's the key metric thats your focus when you are looking at that decision and does it differ today at all because you are in a kind of bigger project ramp-up period? Thanks.
So I really think it's important to take a long-term view on the dividend and the outlook on cash and earnings over a longer sweep of time.
So I think that is really morphed.
Fundamentally the issue then will we happen to sit on our capital program at this particular point time.
And I think it is fair to say that with what's happened in oil markets in the last six to nine months there is a complete reshaping of what's going on a rebalancing of what's going on.
And I think it's reasonable to think that taking sometime to understand where things shake out for the long-term is a very important and prudent step.
I don't want to get ahead of what the board's views on this might be so I can't really comment any further.
The dividend is very important to us.
We want remain competitive on it.
We pay attention to our yield we pay attention to our payouts on earnings and our payouts on cash flows.
We want to be competitive on this we want to continue to grow it.
So all I can say is its got high priority and this is something that gets looked at every single quarter and profiles on out in terms of earnings and cash flows gets looked at every quarter by the board.
Great.
That's fair.
I appreciate that.
And then a follow-up on the  particularly congratulations on the Caltex sale.
On the downstream can you give us any idea of how you expect that asset sale those assets sales have affected your returns in the downstream portfolio.
So as we roll forward with international I know it was in non-consolidated but how they compare relative to the rest of your portfolio and how that portfolio may look absent Caltex? Thank you.
Yeah so I think you -- we should commented as it had a positive contribution obviously but I dont think its going to be noticeable in any meaningful way.
Its absence will not be noticeable in any meaningful way.
Okay yes fair enough thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Your question please? Hi good morning everybody and Jeff thank you for everything its been a pleasure.
Thanks.
Can I just ask about the Neutral Zone again how much did you see in for volumes in your targets for this year and for the 2017 3.1? So this year would have been in the neighborhood of what we produced in the first quarter here which was around 76 000 barrels a day.
We would have been anticipating a decline between 2015 and 2017 to something a little around 60 maybe 62 000 barrels a day in 2017.
Good.
And so Pat youre saying that basically that margins are so low there that regardless of losing whatever it is 70 -- 60 -- 70 000 barrels a day the financial impact will literally be minimal? Yes.
Well okay.
That was the -- that was the volume question.
Is there anything to add on the California downstream market and Ill leave with that? Thanks a lot.
So I think in California we had the fortunate position of having high reliability at a time when the overall industry market was very tight and it was tight for a couple of operational reasons related to other industry -- other industry players.
As those get resolved and I think one has been resolved and one is going to take a little bit longer to resolve but as those get resolved and I think you would anticipate that the margins would move towards a more normal -- a more normal level.
Of course second quarter is typically a reasonable margin period because of gasoline demand pickup.
So there is seasonality factors there but in general I think its fair to say that the West Coast margin was impacted significantly here in the first quarter because of these industry factors and Chevron ran well operated well and was able to take advantage of that.
Pat its totally obscure but I was wondering was that part -- was California part of the working -- why was the working capital movements so enormous in the quarter I guess is what I should have asked.
Thanks.
Its a good question.
It was really a function.
When you look at our working capital elements here the biggest drivers really just related to a disproportionate movement in the way our accounts payable and our accounts receivables moved over the quarters period of time.
Normally when you are in a more stable price environment then you expect whatever happens and your receivables and payables to offset.
That did that happen in this particular period.
And so we had a net cash consumption of size related to accounts payable receivables net and this is where I said and I feel very comfortable saying that we expect this to unwind as the quarters progress.
I guess what Im driving at is the history of that typically is the California operations have a lot of long distance crude is that what were talking about here or is there dollar effect or something? No its not what were -- its not what were talking about and in the past when we talked about weve had working capital effects related to the California.
In many of those circumstances in the past that has been related to the operations the specific operations or lack of operations at Richmond.
That is not the scenario that were talking about this year.
But Im still not to why its so big I mean you say its payables receivables type move but I just wonder is it the dollar or is it what is it? I mean its just the rate of activity change between whats happened on your revenue side and whats happened on your cost side.
Okay I will leave at that.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Your question please? Hey guys.
First Jeff just want to say thank you for all the help over the last couple of years and best of luck with your new assignment and Frank welcome aboard to the IR lane.
Pat on the first quarter the cost saving realization in the P&amp;L I think you mention talking about $600 million.
How much of [indiscernible] in many of the area that you operate as much weaker than the US dollar so as a result in US dollar term the cost is down? So your question is about foreign exchange the 600 -- roughly $580 million.
No I am not talking about the $580 million which is related to currency translation.
I am talking about the actual operating cost because lets say you pay your employee in UK with the pound and then get translated into your US dollar even if the cost base will remain the same in local currency in US dollar is much lower so thats the amount that I am just curious how -- of the 600 how much is related to that? So the  its really  theyre not related.
I mean our operating expense the influence of foreign exchange on our operating expense is really pretty minimal through the quarter.
Its more significant in terms of capital spending but on an operating expense base it has not  it is not a significant component that has led to the decline in operating expense between periods.
Interesting.
So given that in many of your major operating area the dollar have strengthened against their local currency but is not much of an impact in USA? Thats correct.
I see.
Okay.
All right thats fine.
A final one thats real quick over-lifting and under-lifting in the quarter? Yeah were about 1.7% under-lifted for the quarter.
And Pat at the end of the quarter do you still under-lift or do you upper-lift or over-lift? I dont know Frank.
I just know for the quarter it was 1.7% and I dont know  No at the end of the quarter Paul it was  we were 1.7% under-lifted thats at the end of the quarter.
At the end of the quarter okay.
And how about for the quarter your sales? Within the quarter? Yes means that the quarter sales comparing to the quarter production are we over-lift or under-lift? Ill have to follow-up with you that.
Paul I dont have that number with me but the 1.7% is the number that you should focus on.
Okay Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your question please.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
And Jeff let me also say thanks to all your help.
Welcome Frank.
I got to say I am optimistic on a better Q position with Frank.
I want to see how it goes.
On asset sales you are two-thirds of the way through the $15 billion number.
One can you help thinking with maybe some upside yet again to that target.
Could you frame for us how youre thinking about that.
And if could [indiscernible] this year.
One of your competitors in your backyard in California seems pretty keen on asset sales I am just curious on the other side of the ledger if you have taken a hard look at bolt-ons to your existing California position? And then I do have a related follow-up.
Yeah so we did just increase the target back in March moving to the $15 billion over the four years.
We are only six weeks later than that approximately now.
And even though the CAL sale is a significant transaction and were happy to have it behind us I am not in a position to change the overall target.
I feel very comfortable about our ability to conclude the $15 billion over the next year and a half or so that are remaining actually its more than that more than two and a half years two and a half years that are remaining.
So I dont want to up that target but I feel comfortable about our ability to hit that target in the timeframe that we have set.
CAL will be booked in the second quarter it was not a first quarter item.
And then in terms of any sort of bolt-on activity obviously we look at circumstances of assets and opportunities around the globe.
We evaluate that all the time.
I am not going to speak specifically about anything thats under consideration or not under consideration.
It has a pretty high hurdle is all I would say in order to move into our portfolio at this time.
Any sort of additional portfolio move like that would have a pretty high hurdle because it would need to compete post acquisition for capital against the assets that we already have in queue.
I appreciate.
And my follow-up is I am afraid I am going to label the working capital issue just to leave that more if I may.
My sense is at least when you have such a massive move than the oil price at least a slow down on activity levels the payables that you would have as a source of working capital as you pay those in other words as cash goes out the door the subsequent payables that would replace those would be substantially lower assuming your activity level was reduced.
So what I'm trying to understand is where is your confidence or can you help us walk through why that after a such move in the oil price that working capital position would reverse out if your activity level is moved to a lower level just your view on that.
[ph] Well I think it's really the combination I mean; I look at these on a net basis right.
I look at the movement in your receivables and the movement in your payables and as I say as you get into a stable environment any sort of price impact that you get typically moves through both of those in a relatively synonymous way or a synchronized way.
And so when youre in a discontinuous situation like you had in the first quarter I think when you get into a stable environment if prices have come down and cost structure has come down then you get into a matching there and so I think that is what I'm really trying to imply is that as you move into that matching phase that's where you will get the reversal and you'll return to a more normal relationship between receivables and payables.
Is that through the course of the year Pat or you would expect a more quicker resolution for that or is it going to kind of ramp higher or going to be balanced over time? Accounts payable receivables I would expect to begin reversing relatively quickly here.
I think it's a trend a change in the pattern that you will see in the second quarter.
Great I will leave at that.
Thanks very much indeed.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil your question please.
Folks good morning and I would also offer congratulations to both Jeff and Frank.
I had two questions one could you give an update on the recently formed JV you did in the Gulf of Mexico with Keathley Canyon any status update or game plan as you kind of take over operatorship there? Well I think you know I think I'd like to leave a lot of that for our second quarter here because our plans are to have Jeff -- Jay Johnson on the line with us in second quarter and I think we'll let the opportunities go there.
But we're pleased with the joint development opportunity that we've got here this really builds on our Anchor discovery and our Guadalupe discovery and it combines the Tiber and Gila discoveries where BP had success there and so we feel like it's a very good development opportunity potentially for hubs where you can get scale assets economic assets and going forward we have a lot of continuing appraisal work to do though.
So I don't really want to say much more than that.
Fair enough we can follow-up next quarter with Jay.
The second question Pat is really kind of on the U.S.
in particular where we saw negative earnings I guess I viewed the Gulf and Permian as key growth areas where we would expect fairly high margins I realized there were some impairments kind of one-off in the quarter but you highlight DD&amp;A being elevated is it fair to believe that DD&amp;A kind of remains at an elevated level until we book additional reserves over time? And if I could may be just sneak in a -- finally a follow-up on the Partitioned Zone.
You mentioned the financial impact being minimal I presume that applies to both earnings and cash flow but if you could please just confirm that I would appreciate it.
Thanks.
Yeah so just sticking with the upstream loss position I think we have to look at what the driver was here for the loss position obviously very poor realizations only $43 a barrel and liquids realizations gas overall was $2 in the quarter roughly.
So the significant decline in revenues.
I talked about what's happening on our cost structure side of things but we're going to see the cost structure come down with lag effects you're not going to see that in a first quarter period of time so the cost structure is continuing to evolve and so first quarter again was not a particularly pretty picture from a margin standpoint.
On depreciation you're right we are seeing elevated depreciation and you would expect that depreciation to remain elevated and particularly for some of our deepwater assets until we have time to do we get response time and we can see what the full recoverable we can document kind of the full recoverable opportunity of that development play is.
And back on PZ it is the same earnings and cash.
Great thank you so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gammel from Jefferies your question please.
Thanks very much hi everyone.
Just wanted to come to the milestones that you've achieved in Australia over the course of the quarter.
The first question related to the first gas into turbine at Gorgon that's obviously a huge milestone is that being accomplished with gas from your hydrogen [ph] offshore or youre getting that from third-party sources and if it's not hydrogen you still expect first gas somewhere around mid-year? It's coming from domestic gas sources and yes our expectation really is to have we are on schedule for our Gorgon startup in the third quarter of this year and first gas before the end of the year.
And do you mean first commercial cargoes is that  First commercial cargoes sorry.
Okay great.
First LNG before the end of the year.
Got it.
And then obviously another major milestone you achieved at Wheatstone with the top side placement but I guess from a schedule standpoint I would expect that the onshore has got the most potential for slippage just from a risk standpoint can you talk about where you are at relative to schedule in terms of the onshore at Wheatstone? Yes.
So we are on schedule for Wheatstone.
Obviously the installation of the top sides on the steel gravity structure was a major milestone.
But we've got seven of 24 process modules major process modules that have been delivered on site.
The trunk line is installed and hydro tested.
The dredging is complete the piling activities are completed the roofs are on both of the LNG tanks so we continue to make good progress both onshore and offshore and I do encourage you to take a look at the pictures that are on the website because you'll be able to see the progress there.
Okay.
Very good.
Thanks folks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Your question please.
Thanks for taking the question.
As you are getting into 2015 presumably there was a lift of FIDs the company had on deck are there any of those other than perhaps Kitimat that have been pushed out or suspended since January 1? So I would say the most significant in fact the only really significant FID thats on plan for this year relates to TCO and the future growth project and we continue to work that through to FID obviously it's an opportunity for us to take advantage of a lower cost structure so we continue to do more detailed engineering and work through the cost estimates of this continue to work with our partners and the government on this so our expectation is fourth-quarter FID on that one.
Okay understood.
And in terms of the other FID projects I mean part of the reduction that we took in our capital spending from 2014 to 2015 really did relate to the pacing of other major capital projects.
Kitimat is a primary one there.
We've moved that I guess I would say the spending on that out considerably.
We are really only limiting ourselves here to appraisal work and continuing to look at the design and the cost structure of that.
Indonesia deepwater development would have been another one.
That has moved out.
So there several other FIDs or pre-FID projects that we have pushed to see any monies into future years.
And if I can ask a follow-up about the downstream segment you've been pretty vocal in the past about the frustrations with California policy on carbon emissions in particular given the decision last week to extend those rules out to 2030 does that change your view about perhaps retaining any of the California refining assets? Well I would just say that we are in a very advantaged California position.
We've got two very strong world-class -- very competitive assets at Richmond and El Segundo.
We've got a very good market position very good brand strength.
So its a quality asset that we have here and our expectation is that we will be able over time to work with whatever the regulatory framework is.
At the same time we do still think it's important to alert customers and alert government officials as to what the cost of compliance is for some of these programs.
The AB32 the cap and trade portion fuels under the cap came in to effect in January of this year and there are costs new costs associated with being a refiner in the state as a result of that.
Now it does get passed on to consumers and so as that continues to move forward then of course that cost increase could be something that consumers and regulators will be increasingly aware of.
Okay I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Your question please.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody and let me be one of the last to wish you good luck Jeff in the next assignment and welcome Frank.
If I could just go maybe with a couple of specific ones Angola LNG I think at the Analyst Day you updated you expected it to come on stream during the fourth quarter of this year back on stream.
Any update on progress there that was maybe a little bit earlier than some of our expectations and maybe what all did you end up having to do to the project to get it ready for this year? Okay.
So work is still underway significantly underway and the overall plan is to still have Angola LNG restart with LNG to the tank in the fourth quarter of this year probably late in the fourth quarter of this year and then begin to ramp-up to about 75% of capacity by the first quarter of 2015.
As is common the plant will run for a period of time and then ALNG will make a decision as to whether or not they need to take the plant down to perform any sort of shut down drain removal that kind of cleanup activity.
And they all decide at that point in time whether or not they want to do that early in the first part of 2016.
In any case we would expect ALNG to reach maximum capacity in the second quarter of 2016 if they decide to do those drain removals.
Great.
And I appreciate that.
And then maybe just one general one wondered if you can give couple of comments in your release but I would appreciate any clarity as we've got varying views from different companies over in recent times.
Any view on general product demand globally both in the US and globally what you are seeing across your system? Any demand sort of weak or strong in different parts of the system as well? I would say that going forward here and I'm thinking really globally here that product demand -- there are some leading indicators that would suggest the product demand as strengthening I guess I would say modestly.
And overall probably have an overall demand profile for 2015 that would be somewhat stronger than 2014 from an oil consumption standpoint.
And in the US I think in your release it said that the product sales were I cant remember they were flat year-on-year versus 1Q14.
Is that US gasoline is that kind of same-store sales across your system or what number is that? I'm not sure which number are you talking are you looking in the release itself? Yeah.
I think it said branded gasoline sales were essentially flat with 2014 is that  so I am guessing that's kind of the same-store sales? Well it really is networks it's our total network sales.
Total network sales.
It's really just a function of our branded distributions right.
I mean our network hasn't changed significantly between periods of time.
That's helpful.
Alright.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Your question please.
Yeah good morning.
Good morning.
I guess I would like to follow-up it hasn't gotten much here this time around.
Permian kind of give us an update maybe what you are doing there maybe your progression on rig count and then also how the cost deflation is flowing through there? Okay.
So our current outlook really for the Permian is to have about 21 rigs running.
Currently in the March meeting we said it was something closer to 25.
We expect to have about 325 gross wells this year.
And that's down a little bit from what we said just a few week ago.
Some of the reduction in the wells is due to a shift to horizontal drilling programs versus vertical drilling programs.
And some of it also relates to joint venture arrangements what our joint development partner has reduced their activity levels compared to plans.
We are transitioning more and more to horizontal work as opposed to vertical work.
Horizontal wells obviously work better in this kind of a price environment.
And I would just say that we are seeing very good well by well improvement in costs in each of these wells going forward.
I think the cost reduction efforts are finding their way through to our overall drilling and completions cost and we will be happy to give you a larger update more in-depth update on our second quarter call.
Okay.
And then the other question I had is we could get back to  it was chart 14 you talked about flexibility in your spending going forward.
I didnt catch the number but I was just wondering if we should think about that as kind of  one give us the number.
Number two can we think about that as ratable as we work through or is it very much going to be chunky as for example Gorgon gets going at the end of this year and obviously the CapEx drops off.
And then how that may change the way the future FID process will work its way through as well? Right.
So the number that we provided between 2015 and 2017 is $8 billion cumulatively.
And I think its reasonable for you to think about that as reasonably ratable.
I mean it does really depend and it is forced heavily by the Gorgon and Wheatstone spend follow-up.
But I think for purposes of what youre most likely doing I think thinking about it as being reasonably ratable make sense.
Okay.
Thats it from me.
Thanks and Jeff and Frank good luck in new ventures.
And Frank I guess we will be talking together quite a lot more.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Due to time constraints our final question comes from the line of Brad Heffern from RBC Capital Markets.
Your question please.
Hey good morning everyone.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about how cost savings that youve realized today have aligned with what was contemplated by your original CapEx budget if you are seeking cost deflation happen more quickly than you would have expected.
I'm just looking at the international CapEx number for the first quarter hence down $2 billion is that good cost savings or is that just normal inter-quarter [ph] volatility? All right.
So I would say in general the cost savings that we are seeing and that we anticipate seeing would probably be somewhat stronger than what we had baked into our $35 billion budget.
And that's really just a function of when we were doing the budget and what we were anticipating versus what we are -- we believe being able to secure going forward.
I don't think you will have seen much of that in the quarter-to-quarter comparisons as of yet so what you're seeing quarter-to-quarter comparisons really has more to do with the pattern of actual spending from fourth to first.
Okay understood.
And just thinking about that if you prorate the first quarter for the full year you are already below the $35 billion number.
How should we think about the CapEx trajectory throughout 2015? Yeah I think you should think about it as being relatively evenly paced.
The $35 billion target is what we expect to hit at the end of the year.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevrons first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference call over to the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Chevron Corporation Ms.
Pat Yarrington.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Thank you Jonathan.
Welcome to Chevron's second quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Jay Johnson Executive Vice President-Upstream; and Frank Mount General Manager of Investor Relations.
We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide two.
Slide three provides an overview of our financial performance.
The company's second quarter earnings were $571 million or $0.30 per diluted share.
Included in the quarter were impairments of $1.96 billion and other charges of approximately $670 million relating to project suspensions and adverse tax effects all of which were non-cash charges stemming from a downward revision in the company's longer-term crude oil price outlook.
Excluding these special items as well as asset-sale gains and foreign-exchange effects earnings were $1.8 billion or $0.97 per diluted share approximately $400 million higher than first quarter on that same basis.
A detailed reconciliation of the special items is included in the appendix to this presentation.
Cash from operations was $7.2 billion an improvement of $4.9 billion from the prior quarter.
Our debt ratio at quarter end was 17%.
During the second quarter we paid $2 billion in dividends.
Earlier in the week we announced a dividend of $1.07 per share payable to shareholders of record as of August 19.
We're currently yielding 4.6%.
Turning to slide four cash generated from operations was $7.2 billion during the second quarter and $9.5 billion year-to-date.
Upstream cash generation was stronger than in the first quarter the result of higher crude prices.
We also benefited from strong cash generation from our downstream and chemicals business.
Temporary working capital effects reduced year-to-date cash flow by approximately $2 billion.
We expect this impact to reverse in future quarters.
Proceeds from asset sales for the quarter totaled approximately $3.9 billion the vast majority of which related to our sale in the interest in Caltex Australia.
We are well ahead of pace on our four-year asset divestment program.
In the past 18 months we have recognized asset sale proceeds of nearly $11 billion compared to our stated $15 billion goal over the 2014 to 2017 time period.
Cash capital expenditures were $7.6 million for the quarter essentially flat with the first quarter.
Year-to-date cash capital expenditures were $15.2 billion down $2.2 billion or 13% compared with the same period in 2014.
At quarter end our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $12.2 billion and our net debt position was $19.4 billion.
Slide five compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year.
Second quarter 2015 earnings were $5.1 billion lower than second quarter 2014 results.
Upstream earnings decreased to $7.5 billion between quarters.
The impairments and other charges I noted previously accounted for $2.6 billion of this decline.
Significantly lower crude realizations and the absence of second quarter 2014 asset sale gains make up the remaining variance between periods.
Downstream results increased by $2.2 billion primarily driven by higher worldwide margins and gains from asset sales principally the sale of our interest in Caltex Australia.
Operationally the second quarter continued a positive quarterly pattern of high reliability strong margins and good cost management.
The variance in the other segment was primarily favorable corporate tax items.
Turning now to slide six I'll compare results for the second quarter 2015 with the first quarter of 2015.
Second quarter earnings were $2 billion lower than first quarter results.
Upstream earnings decreased by $3.8 billion primarily reflecting the charges I previously discussed.
Unfavorable foreign exchange effects and the absence of first quarter asset sale gains and the positive UK tax adjustment were also large variances between periods.
Downstream earnings increased $1.5 billion as gains on asset sales were partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange swing between the quarters.
Operationally the quarters were fairly comparable.
The variance in the other segment was primarily favorable corporate tax items partially offset by higher corporate charges including severance accruals.
Frank will now take us through the comparisons by segment.
Investor Relations</strong> Thanks Pat.
Turning to slide seven our U.S.
upstream earnings for the second quarter were $578 million lower than the first quarter's results.
Asset impairments and project suspensions across multiple assets primarily as Pat indicated from a reduced price outlook decreased earnings by $630 million.
Higher realizations consistent with an increase in domestic crude prices increased earnings by $190 million.
Exploration expenses mainly associated with the deepwater Gulf of Mexico decreased earnings by $70 million.
The other bar reflects higher production which was more than offset by higher DD&amp;A rates.
Turning to slide eight international upstream earnings were $3.2 billion lower than last quarter's results.
Asset impairments primarily at Papa Terra in Brazil project suspensions and adverse tax effects from price changes previously discussed reduced earnings by about $1.9 billion.
An unfavorable swing in foreign currency effects decreased earnings between periods by approximately $670 million.
The absence of last quarter's gains on asset sales and the deferred tax benefit from the UK tax change decreased earnings by $660 million.
Increased exploration expenses resulted in lower earnings of $170 million.
Higher realizations increased earnings by $395 million consistent with the increase in Brent prices between the quarters.
The other bar primarily consists of an unfavorable ruling on a decade-old tax issue and severance accruals booked in the second quarter.
Slide nine summarizes the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the second quarter of 2015 and the first quarter of 2015.
Net production decreased by 85 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Major capital project ramp ups primarily at Jack/St.
Malo in the Gulf of Mexico and from the expansion of the Bibiyana field in Bangladesh increased production by 22 000 barrels per day.
Growth from our shale and tight assets primarily in the Permian contributed 11 000 barrels per day.
As we foreshadowed in our first quarter earnings call production in the Partitioned Zone was shut down at the end of May based on the inability to secure work and equipment permits.
The shutdown decreased production in the second quarter by 38 000 barrels per day.
We're still not producing in the Partitioned Zone and we have no updated guidance as to when production is likely to restart.
Planned and unplanned downtime reduced production by 34 000 barrels per day between periods primarily in Canada and in Australia.
Price and cost recovery effects decreased production by 23 000 barrels per day between quarters as high crude prices and reduced spending decreased volumes associated with production share and variable royalty contracts.
The remaining variance in the base business and other bar primarily reflects natural field declines and weather-related production limitations at Tengiz.
Slide 10 compares the change in Chevron's worldwide net oil equivalent production between the second quarter of 2015 and the second quarter of 2014.
Net production increased by 51 000 barrels per day between quarters.
Major capital projects increased production by 71 000 barrels per day due to production ramp-ups primarily in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Bangladesh.
Shale and tight production increased by 46 000 barrels per day due to the growth in the Midland and Delaware Basins in the Permian the Marcellus and the Vaca Muerta shale in Argentina.
Price and cost recovery effects increased production by 61 000 barrels per day due to the roughly 45% drop in crude prices between periods.
The shutting of operations in the Partitioned Zone decreased production by 45 000 barrels per day.
Asset sales resulted in lost production of 33 000 barrels per day principally driven by the divestment of our assets in Chad and the Netherlands.
The decrease of 49 000 barrels per day in the base business and other bar primarily reflects normal field declines and the impact of higher external constraints partially offset by a favorable variance from less planned turnaround activity.
Our base business continues to perform well with a managed decline rate within our existing guidance range.
Year-to-date net oil equivalent production was 2.638 million barrels per day and within our 0% to 3% guidance for 2015 growth.
Looking forward to the remainder of the year the third quarter is expected to be a comparatively heavy turnaround period and we believe the full year production guidance remains appropriate.
Turning to slide 11 U.S.
downstream results increased $25 million between quarters.
Tight product supply primarily on the West Coast boosted refining and marketing margins and increased earnings by $165 million between quarters.
Higher operating expenses decreased earnings by $185 million reflecting planned maintenance and turnaround activities at the El Segundo Refinery and commitments related to the Richmond Refinery modernization project.
The variance in the other segment primarily reflects stronger results in our chemicals business.
Turning to slide 12 international downstream earnings improved by $1.5 billion between quarters.
Gains on asset sales primarily related to the sale of the company's interest in Caltex Australia increased earnings by $1.7 billion.
Lower refining and marketing margins decreased earnings by $120 million between quarters as product price increases including the negative price lag effects on naphtha and jet fuel failed to keep pace with rising crude costs.
An unfavorable swing in the foreign currency effects lowered earnings by approximately $155 million.
The variance in the other bar reflects multiple unrelated items.
Jay will now provide an update on our upstream operations.
Jay? Upstream</strong> Thanks Frank.
Turning to slide 13 I'm going to discuss our Upstream business where we continue to make good progress in delivering the projects that are driving our growth in volume in value and in cash.
Gorgon is a critical part of that growth and we continue to work towards the first LNG cargo.
As you can see from the photo plant construction has advanced.
We're nearing mechanical completion of the first train with over 60% of critical subsystems handed over to commissioning.
We've posted new pictures today and I encourage you to look at them on our investor website and chevron.com.
Turning to slide 14 the upstream work scope for initial production from the Jansz field is largely complete with the control systems now active.
We've established communications from the central control room on Barrow Island to the subsea wells which enables us to conduct commissioning activity on the upstream and pipeline systems.
Final testing is underway for the subsea infrastructure and controls.
At the plant all LNG and condensate tanks required for first LNG are ready and commissioning of completed process systems is underway.
Currently the critical path is through the refrigerant compressors and the hydrate prevention system for the subsea wells.
We expect to perform the first commissioning run of the compressors and testing of the hydrate prevention system in late September.
Once we're satisfied with the operation of these systems we'll be ready to introduce gas from the Jansz wells into the upstream pipeline and begin the startup of Train 1 which we currently expect late this year.
The schedule is dependent on managing commissioning and startup risks including equipment malfunctions possible labor and weather disruptions as well as other unforeseen issues.
Our focus is on a safe and incident-free startup that leads to reliable long-term operations.
We're working to achieve the first LNG cargo by year-end.
However given these risks it's likely to occur in early 2016.
Now let's talk about Wheatstone moving to slide 15.
Wheatstone is now over 65% complete.
On the upstream side of the project we successfully completed the float-over and installation of the offshore platform in April.
Hook up and commissioning is on plan with all subsea structures now installed.
The flow line installation is underway and the development drilling program ongoing.
All nine wells were previously drilled to the top of the reservoir and we're now drilling the reservoir sections of each well and running the completions.
At the plant site 11 of 24 major process modules for Train 1 have been delivered.
All refrigeration compressors and gas turbine generators have been installed and the domestic gas pipeline has been completed.
The focus of activity at the plant has shifted from civil works to mechanical electrical and instrumentation systems.
The work on site is going very well.
Our biggest challenge has been the delays in module delivery from a fabrication yard which is putting pressure on the schedule.
To address the delays we've expanded to an additional yard and provided increased oversight in the yards.
We've seen positive results from these actions and are not anticipating any further delays in the module delivery schedule.
Additionally we've increased bed capacity at the plant site and are updating our work plans to mitigate the impact to schedule.
Our objective remains first LNG by year-end 2016 and we'll continue to provide updates on our progress over the next 18 months.
Turning to slide 16.
Performance at the Jack/St.
Malo lower tertiary development continues to exceed our plan.
The sixth well was brought online ahead of schedule and total production has ramped up to around 80 000 barrels per day.
The development drilling program continues and we're seeing some get improvements in cycle time costs and stimulation effectiveness with the most recent completion 20% better on cost and schedule than previous wells.
Work to install the Big Foot Tension Leg Platform was suspended in early June when nine of the 16 tendons lost buoyancy.
There were no environmental impacts or injuries and we are investigating the root cause of the incident.
We have secured the site including successful recovery of the seven remaining tendons.
The tension leg platform was undamaged and is being moved to a safe harbor location.
Site surveys and equipment inspections are in progress to determine whether the installed piles and recovered tendons can be reused and what equipment will require replacement in order to complete the project.
At this point we are not expecting any Big Foot production in 2016 or 2017 which is a reduction from our original plan of 10 000 net barrels per day in 2016 and 22 000 net barrels per day in 2017.
As we complete the investigation and update our plan we will advise you accordingly.
Appraisal drilling is ongoing at the Anchor discovery and in the Northwest Keathley Canyon area now named Tigris.
Tigris has the potential to offer a multi-field hub development of the Guadalupe Gila and Tiber discoveries with the potential addition of the Gibson exploration prospect which we plan to drill around the end of this year.
Appraisal drilling is underway at Guadalupe and recent results from deepening the Gila discovery well are encouraging with further appraisal planned.
We continue to progress our opportunity cue in the deepwater and in the second quarter made another lower tertiary discovery at the Sicily prospect in Keathley Canyon Block 814.
We're encouraged by the results of the discovery well and follow-up appraisal work is planned.
Turning to slide 17.
As we communicated in March our Permian position is strong.
We have a large high-quality acreage position with advantage royalty which we are cost-effectively developing.
We remain on track to drill 325 wells this year and have expanded to multiple factory mode horizontal well development programs across the Midland and Delaware basins.
We remain committed to our pace development approach but the short cycle nature of these investments allows us to adjust this pace relatively quickly.
In the current market we've been active in negotiating cost reductions with our suppliers achieving rate reductions of 20% to 50% across our major drilling and completion spend categories.
At the same time we continue to improve our drilling and completion efficiency.
Since last year we achieved roughly a 15% increase in drilling footage and a 20% increase in frac stages per day.
The initial production rates for these wells are also very encouraging with our Bradford Ranch laterals averaging 1 100 barrels a day and comprising around 90% liquids.
In addition current estimated well recoveries have increased by 30%.
So in summary cost reductions improved efficiency and increased recoveries have improved our development cost per barrel by around 35% relative to 2014 and make more than 3 000 well prospects economic at $50 per barrel WTI.
Let's move to slide 18.
The major capital projects driving our growth are nearing completion and are underpinned by our strong base business.
The volumes associated with this growth are accretive to our cash margins and will contribute to long-term cash flow.
We've reduced our current year capital spending by $5 billion relative to 2014.
In the current environment we are planning to reduce our 2016 and 2017 capital programs and our flexibility in capital spending significantly increases as our projects already in execution are completed.
We are pacing projects not yet in execution to ensure we capture the cost advantages presented by the current environment and are prioritizing them to manage our capital program.
We continue to drive cost reduction and efficiency to strengthen our cash flow by systematically reviewing our organizational structures and activity levels in our business units and by working with our suppliers.
Pat will now conclude by sharing the enterprise impacts of these efforts.
All right.
Turning to slide 19 I'd like to now provide an update on the self-help efforts that we have underway to lower our costs and improve our efficiency.
To-date we've identified more than $3 billion of spend reductions with about half coming through organizational reviews and half working through the supply chain.
On the organizational side efficiency reviews have recently concluded that covered our corporate gas and midstream and service company group.
Similar reviews are occurring on a rolling basis within our upstream business units.
Work activities in these identified groups have been prioritized streamlined and right-sized to the current environment.
Savings totaled approximately $1.4 billion on a full run rate basis and represent both dollar and workforce reductions off the relevant base of about 20%.
These benefits to our cost structure should become increasingly evident as we move through the next several quarters.
In future periods we expect to see additional savings identified as our remaining upstream units complete their reviews.
We're also aggressively pursuing savings through the supply chain particularly in the U.S.
where our supplier responsiveness has been high.
We have negotiated an excess of $1 billion in immediate savings achieving product category reductions of typically 15% to 30%.
We are also changing the way we work through greater standardization project re-scoping refinement of fit-for-purpose designs and timing optimizations.
In combination we estimate negotiated savings and work changes will lower our future supply chain spend $1.6 billion.
These savings will appear in multiple ways as we move through 2015 into 2016.
Impacts will come in the form of lower operating expenses lower capital and lower cost of goods sold.
And we're not done.
We expect more supply chain savings to be identified in future months particularly as activity continues to flow and as additional spare capacity emerges.
We are being aggressive in pursuing these self-help measures in response to a very challenging industry environment.
Moving to slide 20 I'd like to close with a few thoughts.
We made a commitment to our investors in March.
We said we would cover the dividend from free cash flow in 2017.
We stand by that commitment.
We are taking the steps necessary to ensure we are a resilient competitor regardless of the ensuing price environment.
Our focus areas are shown on the slide get our capital projects currently under construction online rebase and reprioritize our capital outflows maintain reliability and drive our cost structure lower and conclude our planned divestment program.
If a lower price environment persists for longer you'll see even more significant cost savings and even greater cuts in capital.
As we showed you in March we have tremendous flexibility in our 2017 C&amp;E spend.
We are confident that we can and are committed to scaling our C&amp;E outflows in a manner that will allow us to continue our 27-year record of annual dividend payment increases.
So that concludes our prepared remarks.
I appreciate you listening in.
We're now ready to take your questions.
Please keep in mind that we do have a full queue so try to limit yourself to one question and one follow up if necessary.
And we'll do our best to get all of your questions answered.
Jonathan please open the lines for questions.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
And once again we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow up.
Our first question comes from the line of Jason Gammel from Jefferies.
Your question please? Yes.
Thanks very much.
First of all if I could just ask on Gorgon.
Jay you mentioned the key risks still to getting to the first commercial cargo included labor risks and there has been a lot of media attention to the  one of the unions that is employed by one of your primary contractors.
Do you have any update on any industrial actions that could prevent getting that first commercial cargo in early 2016? Upstream</span></strong> Thanks for the question.
At this point the work with the contractors and the unions to agree a new contract is ongoing.
The discussions continue.
There was a fourth vote that was unsuccessful recently and so the unions have requested and received permission to seek a strike vote but there is warning time that has to occur before that happens.
At this point in time any action that would occur would be relatively short in duration 24 hours or less and we would have ample warning time before that would occur.
But I think it's important to recognize that a strike at this point is really not going to be in anyone's benefit and so the negotiations continue between our contractors and the unions and I'm optimistic that they will be able to find a solution and a way forward.
I think the issues have largely been addressed.
The primary one appears to be just around work schedules and so that's an area that's receiving quite a bit of focus as we move forward.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
If I could just as a follow up ask a question about the charges that were recorded in the quarter for project suspension.
Would you be able to give us any examples of projects that are being deferred and the level of CapEx savings that's being associated with these deferrals? Upstream</span></strong> We really aren't going to go into any specific projects that have been deferred but as we look at our pre-FID capital the projects that have not moved to sanction we're really looking to do either deferments as we slow them down to take advantage of the current market environment build lower cost structure into this projects.
We're also looking to pace those projects as we build our capital programs looking ahead to 2016 and 2017.
But some projects that we feel are not going to be competitive rather than keep them moving we've just elected to go ahead and suspend those and those costs reflect some of those projects that we've suspended.
Okay.
Thanks for your thoughts Jay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Your question please? Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Upstream</span></strong> Good morning.
First question I appreciate the additional color on the operating cost reduction potential and if we think about the capital cost side looking at your Analyst Day deck you had a grey bar with respect to capital costs of about $20 billion in 2016 so I guess I'm just wondering like how much reduction potential is there from a deflation standpoint a deferral standpoint and really if you kind of wrap it all together with the operating costs your guidance at the Analyst Day suggested that you could cover your dividend at $70.
So how low do you think that could go given where we are in this current oil price environment? So I think there's two elements there.
Let me just start with the last component here.
Really we did say we would cover our dividend from free cash flow at the $70 price.
What I was trying to indicate in my earlier words is we intend to cover the dividend from free cash flow at whatever the ensuing price is.
That is a firm commitment on the part of the company and we have tremendous flexibility really in our 2017 C&amp;E to flex that down.
We are being very successful in driving our operating costs lower and working through the supply chain to accomplish not only operating expense but capital reductions as well.
And that really is an affordability component for us.
It's a cash flow management element for us and after we get these projects that are currently under construction online that flexibility in C&amp;E becomes quite significant in 2017.
So I'll let Jay talk to his prioritization process in terms of looking at the capital program in 2017.
Upstream</span></strong> So as we're building  we're in the process of building our plan right now for 2016 2017 and 2018.
And as we go through as we've said before our primary focus first and foremost is on putting the investment back into our base business around asset integrity and maintaining good reliable operations.
And then we also fund the major capital projects that are in execution and as you have seen in our slides that will decrease significantly as these projects come online.
Just for example in our LNG projects this year we expect to spend around $8 billion in LNG C&amp;E but by 2017 that's down to $1 billion.
So we'll see tremendous flexibility coming in just from that.
At the same time we're looking at our base business and as I mentioned we are bringing our costs down our efficiencies up so we're seeing very good performance out of our base business and able to compete even in this environment.
So we're evaluating how much money to put back into the base to maintain and continue to grow particularly the short cycle high value returns.
And then finally we're looking at the projects that are pre-FID and as I said we want to build in the lower cost structures and we want to be able to preserve the option so that as prices recover we can decide at what pace and how to ratably bring these projects back into the program.
Moving engineering forward so that we have better definition better understanding of these projects is a very low-cost way to build more confidence into our program for the future.
And the last area is our exploration.
We've been very successful in the last several years so we've built up a bit of an inventory on the resource side and so we can pull back on exploration over the next couple of years as we consolidate and wait for prices to recover.
So I would see a dramatic and significant reduction in capital as we move forward.
We're building that into our plans but the exact amount is yet to be determined.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then the second question in just in light of the commentary about Big Foot some of the risks around Gorgon and Wheatstone maybe you could just discuss your degree of confidence with the 3.1 million barrels a day production target for 2017 at this point and to what degree you might be able to quantify what you see as the downside risk because I know there was some cushion in that at one point but maybe just kind of update us with your latest thoughts on that? Thanks.
Upstream</span></strong> We still feel very confident about the growth we're going to deliver and that's primarily because the growth is captured and driven by these major capital projects that are currently in execution.
And as I said we'll continue to fund those and bring those to completion.
So that growth is there it's real and it's based on our underlying base business performance which has been very strong and we've done a good job of being able to maintain our underlying decline rates.
But we're in a different world and so we're seeing costs change obviously as the cost  or prices structures have come down costs are moving and so just as we did with North American gas there's still opportunity to make adjustments in how we continue to invest in some of the shorter cycle opportunities.
So I see us as having a very strong base.
The growth we're very confident with that.
The level of the divestment the level of base business those can be some factors that go into it but on balance we are very strong on the growth prospect and the growth story that we presented to you.
Okay.
Thanks.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Phil.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Your question please? Yes.
Good morning.
So maybe a small question to begin with.
Just obviously Big Foot delay and then you're talking about extra fab space for Wheatstone and extra beds I presume that the CapEx impact that you might be able to speak to or not and then obviously would you be able to offset that with the cost reduction efforts that the industry is going through? Upstream</span></strong> Thanks.
That's a good question.
With Wheatstone when you put extra beds in there are some costs associated with that.
At the same time because the modules were delayed we didn't build up the manpower initially as we had originally planned so there were some savings early on.
But in general we're facing cost pressure on the projects just as we are around the world.
At the same time we're seeing very favorable exchange rates in Australia that are a countervailing force to that.
So we're still working under the cost forecast that we've already provided to you.
We'll continue to monitor that and see how we progress through the next 18 months and we'll update you if we feel costs have changed significantly.
Right.
And then this is a broader question.
There was a period where Chevron had very good project execution and then there have been obviously some well publicized setbacks more recently.
If there was one change or one message that you were trying to get to investors and to the organization about how to hold on to better project execution what would that message be and is there any anecdotes or data to illustrate that that is changing? Upstream</span></strong> That's also a good question.
I think what we have seen some degradation in terms of performance and it's driven by a couple of things.
One the projects have been very large and complex.
In and of itself that's not just something that should be difficult to manage but because of the number of projects being simultaneously managed I think both the industry's resources were stretched thin as well as our own resources to manage these projects was stretched thin.
As we now consolidate and finish this big wave of projects that drives the growth that we have roughly 20% from 2014 to 2017 we won't see that kind of sustained effort to maintain that growth going forward.
It'll be at a much more moderate pace.
So I think we'll have the more ratable queue of projects back into the range that's more straightforward to manage.
At the same time we're also working to lower the cost structures and increase the predictability of these projects by advancing engineering before we move them to FID.
So as I mentioned on many of our pre-FID projects such as FGP we talked in March about advancing the engineering past 50% that 40% to 50% range by the time we take FID.
Just as an example you're looking for a proof point when we took Gorgon to FID we had modeled 12-inch pipe and larger in our 3D CAD models at the time of FID.
FGP will have 3-inch and larger pipe in our system and sketches done for everything below that.
So there's a great deal more definition in the design before we're moving these projects forward.
So I think the combination of having a more ratable program along with better engineering more advanced higher-quality engineering will pay dividends for us.
Thanks Jay.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Your question please? Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Jay if I could two questions.
If you're looking at a company the scope and size of Chevron on a going-forward basis  historically that you spend most of your capital in the long cycle macro development how is that going to change and is there  may be a sweet spot how that's going to shift between the short cycle and long cycle development effort going forward? Upstream</span></strong> Yes.
I think as you look at projects like the Wheatstones the Gorgons the FGPs and TCO these are projects that will add very large base and very long term assets to our portfolio.
As we execute our small capital projects which are often infill drilling programs work-over programs and de-bottlenecking we typically see rates of return above 50% and they're built on these assets we've already made the investments.
So I think we're really doing a good job of rejuvenating our base and putting some new life into the base that we can continue to exploit over a long period of time but at the same time we're building our capability day by day in our ability to go after the shale and tight largely in North America and in Argentina.
So as you've seen our performance numbers continue to increase we're coming down that learning curve and we're becoming more and more competitive and it's going to give us a very good balance between deepwater projects large base projects in the LNG and sour gas as well as access to the shorter cycle of shale and tight unconventional projects.
So I see a very good balance and a very good diverse portfolio (39:21).
Inc.</span></strong> Is there a percentage that you can share that on the going forward basis there was that capital spend between the long and the short cycle going to look like? Upstream</span></strong> At this point in time I don't have a ratio or a percentage to share with you.
Our resource base has increased about 15%.
Our portfolio has increased in the unconventional side by about 15% over the last five years in particular.
So we're seeing more of our resource base being the unconventionals but the unconventionals have very high very fast decline rates and that is always going to be something we balance against the longer-term projects with their stable production.
So that's something we'll work through as we react to market conditions our view of forward pricing and the capital that we want to invest across the portfolio.
Inc.</span></strong> The second question is that Jay going back to your early comment not just Chevron it looked like the whole industry the last maybe 10 years has got openly optimistic about their capability to deliver and execute.
And so it seems like everyone is stretching themselves to the limit and we start seeing all these execution issues.
For Chevron learning from the mistake of the last several years have you changed the way  I mean you are talking a little bit about more definition.
But at the top how have you changed the investment decision process on the FID? Will you be  I mean in the future  in the past the industry tends to just looking at the financial capability and whether that you can afford the project and whether it is a good project.
How that is going to change in the future particularly for Chevron ? Upstream</span></strong> For Chevron we have traditionally looked at individual products and the economic opportunity each project presents in making an investment decision.
I would say now in the current environment and looking forward there'll be two additional lenses that will be added to that decision.
First and foremost the project and the economic proposition it presents but then we'll be looking at what is the overall level of investment we want to be making and also what is the level of human capacity we have to manage the projects? And those will certainly be factors that we will build into the process and we are building into the process now so that we can keep that as we move forward.
We've also done a lot of work to put in what we call readiness reviews and these are to make sure that both from a design and a design assurance standpoint before the project moves to execution but also before we start up these projects we're going to readiness review that are much more rigorous and help us make sure we have the resources and the capabilities in place to execute these projects as expected.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Upstream</span></strong> Thanks.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Your question please? Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Maybe if I could do one follow-up on the costs on the slide you have there on slide 19 there is the $3 billion and spend reduction targeted.
I'm not sure if I miss it when you said it but is this all is the CapEx and OpEx is that all in the OpEx side? Can you estimate how much you've captured to date how far along you are at this point? Yeah so the combination of the $3 billion is for both operating expense and capital.
The $1.4 billion is predominantly going to be operating expense and the $1.6 billion is going to be a mixture of both and probably leaning a little bit more towards the capital side of things.
And from a  and these are elements that should begin to show in an accelerated basis as we move through the third and the fourth quarter.
I would say captured to-date actually has been some but not a high proportion of the $3 billion total.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And is there a timing on when you hope that this  something you hope to capture over the next year or two years or...? Oh I think it will be more immediate than that.
I mean think it will be into the third quarter and fourth quarter of 2015 with some carryover into 2016 as well.
I mean a large portion of the supplier engagement element there a billion dollars of that are negotiated price reductions off of planned 2015 activity.
So those negotiations began as you know back in the January February timeframe we're sort of concluded in the May June timeframe and so those rate reductions we should begin to see coming forward in the next half of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Very helpful.
And then maybe if I appreciate the color that you gave earlier on Big Foot and the contribution of Big Foot to the 2016 and 2017 plans.
Could you maybe give the same numbers for what  in the 2017 plan let's assume for the Partitioned Zone and Angola LNG and maybe any updates you have on both of those projects? Upstream</span></strong> Sure.
And first I'll start with the PZ.
The PZ at this point in time we have around 60 000 barrels a day to 70 000 barrels a day expected in the 2017 plan but we do not expect that field to still be shut in in 2017.
So my expectation is that we will be able to resume operations.
There is an issue that's being discussed between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
The impact on us is the difficulty receiving visas and equipment permits.
So we were unable to continue operations and we stopped operations there as this issue is addressed.
Our goal would be to return to normal operations in the short term as the  any other issues are continued to be worked out between the two governments.
And so we work and we're trying to support the activities in that area accordingly.
In terms of the ALNG progress is moving along quite well there.
We are completing the work on all the piping modifications you recall this is as a result of the acoustic-induced vibration analysis that was done so that work should be finishing up in the month of August and then that will allow us to start the recommissioning process at the plant.
The other work in terms of the conditioning equipment on the front end of the plant to handle the diversity of the associated gas feeding the plant will be complete as are the technical bulletins.
But we would expect to see restart late the year and then sustain production in 2016 and onward.
So that's really the status of those two projects.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
I'll leave it.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Ryan.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Your question please? Good morning.
Good morning.
Upstream</span></strong> Hi Neil.
So Pat I just want to talk philosophically about how you're thinking about the dividend and your strategy there.
Didn't raise the dividend in the third quarter but the way we read the comments was that we'd look for you to raise it here in the fourth quarter even if it's a nominal level and it's a priority to continue to raise the dividend going forward.
I just wanted to confirm that and then get your thoughts on the broader dividend strategy.
A good question.
So our broader dividend strategy hasn't changed.
Our financial priorities haven't changed.
Maintaining a competitive and growing dividend is our absolutely number one objective.
What has changed though is obviously our immediate financial environment and so the board chose not to raise the dividend in this quarter.
I think that's a prudent action at this point because we're not running as strongly certainly as we would like on both earnings and cash flow because of where commodity prices sit.
And it's not  I would say it's probably we're not in a very stable either revenue or cost environment.
We have a lot of fluidity on those two components here.
I will say the board is very committed to growing the dividend and seeing our pattern of dividend increases every year materialize but what's important here is that it's the annual dividend payment that has moved up every year.
That doesn't mean you get an increase in the per share every single year because we typically have moved them in the second quarter.
So it's an annual dividend payment history that applies to the 27-year factor.
So I think the board is committed to that.
We are committed to that.
So I would like to be able to say our entire objective is being able to grow the dividend when the time is appropriate.
We don't want to get out over our skis.
We want to do it in a manner and at a time when we can see that we can hold on to that increase sort of in perpetuity.
We don't want to put ourselves into a position where we're pushing things where we are having to fund the dividend off the balance sheet for an extended period of time so we'll do it as soon as the financials really allow us to get there.
It is our number one priority though.
Thank you Pat.
And Jay a question for you around Latin America.
Two regions in particular.
Venezuela output generally seems to be very robust across the country.
Curious what you're seeing there and if you can comment on your relationship with  just politically over there and given some of the potential tensions? And then the outlook for Argentina as well it looks like a very powerful resource obviously a dynamic political situation there as well but comments on both of those plays would be terrific.
Upstream</span></strong> The performance in both of those areas has been good and our relationships with the government in both countries I'd characterize as very strong.
We have a long history and we have worked hard to maintain both our performance and our relationships.
In terms of the unconventional play in Loma Campana we are seeing continued progress there.
We have linked in that asset team and they are tied to our North America asset teams so there's good sharing of the information as we continue to move down the learning curve as we gain knowledge from the industry and offset partners we're plowing those back into the business moving to consistent sets of metrics.
So that drive to continue to improve in the unconventional space is being applied in Argentina as well.
And so we're quite excited about that potential for that asset.
Thank you Jay.
Thank you Pat.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Neil.
Upstream</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Frank.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Your question please? Good morning everybody.
I think you mentioned earlier the inability to slow offshore exploration spending in this current environment or in your outlook here.
But can you quantify exploration spending in 2015 and 2016 from at least from an Analyst Day timeframe and discuss rate commitments that limit your flexibility into that timeframe.
Upstream</span></strong> Yeah the Deepwater drilling that's going on in the Gulf of Mexico of course we have six rigs there and it moves back and forth between exploration and appraisal.
So as we have exploration success than rigs get taken out of exploration and moved into more appraisal and development work.
So for example right now we have of the six rigs four are working on production and development wells and two are working on appraisal wells and we'll move some of those back into the exploration area.
We currently expect to drill about 12 what we consider to be high-impact exploration wells around the world this year.
We continue to see activity in West Africa Deepwater West Africa and the Gulf of Mexico are two of our primary areas but we also have some other work in the unconventional going on as well.
Right.
So it's more of a shifting then maybe a reduction on the rig side.
Upstream</span></strong> I think as we move forward we're going to on the rig side we shift those back and forth.
Of course they're under long-term contracts the large Deepwater rigs.
But in terms of some of the unconventional work those rigs are on shorter cycle and we can move accordingly with our capital allocation.
Great.
Upstream</span></strong> Going forward my comment was really around how much additional work we're going to put in outside of those committed Deepwater rigs.
Great Jay.
And since I have you while you're on the call maybe a question on the Permian.
Your EUR's are up 30% on the slides.
Any color on the driver there whether it's completion lateral lengths different zones? And maybe just generally within your portfolio given the returns I mean is this region a net receiver of more capital versus other areas where there may be more capital pressure in this environment? Upstream</span></strong> Yeah on the first question I would say it's all of the above.
As we're getting more effective in our drilling we're learning a lot from our offset operators and we're moving as you know from vertical wells to horizontal wells and our preference is to really be able to drill those 7 500 foot laterals.
The IP rates are consistent with what we were hoping for.
We're seeing high liquids content in Bradford Ranch.
So everything's looking pretty positive there and when you combine that with the reductions we're getting from our cost of suppliers and the efficiencies that's what's driving that 35% reduction and our development costs per barrel.
I would say that as we look forward we certainly see the Permian as a very lucrative area for us to continue to grow but because so much of that acreage is held by fee we have the luxury of being able to moderate and decide just how much we want to put in there and really can use that as a flywheel.
As we put more infrastructure into the area it really gives us increasing flexibility and profitability as we move forward.
Great.
Thanks for your answers.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Evan.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Terreson from Evercore ISI.
Good morning everybody.
Upstream</span></strong> Good morning.
On the industry deflation theme I wanted to see if Jay could comment on whether  Jay whether you think the pace of cost capture that Chevron's experiencing is different between the U.S.
and overseas markets meaning is one of them lagging the other? And also do you think it's reasonable to believe that the pace of cost productivity captured for larger companies like Chevron might lag that of smaller companies during this part of the cycle? Upstream</span></strong> Good questions.
I'll talk first about the U.S.
versus International.
Okay.
Upstream</span></strong> We have seen a faster response in cost reductions in the U.S.
than in the international side.
A lot of that's driven by the competitiveness of the U.S.
market.
There are more contractors out there there are more service providers and you can work and make transition from one to another faster if needed.
As you get into the international environment it varies country by country but the barriers to entry can be much higher.
There's often local content issues.
Many of these companies may be in joint venture with local companies.
So it just makes it more difficult sometimes to drive those costs lower in the short term.
But what is happening is we're seeing the activity levels come off substantially and as activity levels come off we're seeing that drive the cost structure lower.
So I think we will see and particularly as low prices persist we will see the international continue to come down.
It just hasn't been at the rate that we've seen in North America.
I'm sorry the second part of the question? Yeah.
And also Jay do think it's reasonable that larger  that the cost productivity capture for big companies like Chevron might lag that of the smaller companies during this part of the cycle? Upstream</span></strong> Yeah.
I think in North America the small companies can also drive costs down just as we do because as I said there's enough competition for provision of goods and services that they can make those switches just as we can.
And so they can drive very very rapid reductions in price.
In the international area what we're trying to do is really work as an enterprise so that we are working with our major suppliers and coordinating our efforts to drive those costs down around the globe.
That's why I think a big company has some leverage that a small company wouldn't.
We can work with these very large companies to drive those efficiencies to make sure that our global contracts and terms and conditions support a lower cost structure.
Okay.
And I'd just add that I think because of our spend and our size that gives us additional leverage that some of the smaller firms don't have.
It seems like it would over some period.
And then also Jay you talked about the neutral zone a few minutes ago and it's obviously been shut in for a few quarters.
And I know it's hard to know whether the Saudis and the Kuwaitis are close to resolving their issues but my question is if those fields were able to be brought back on stream over what period of time do you think this could happen? Meaning is this something that could occur over months or is it quarters or is it a longer term period given the extended nature of the shut in? So how do you think about that? Upstream</span></strong> Well the fields were shut in  the Wafra field was shut in in mid-May.
So that kind of gives the beginning of the timeframe.
And obviously it depends on how long they remain shut in.
If we were able to restart in the next couple of months I think we'd be looking at probably like about a six-month ramp-up to get back into kind of normal operation.
Obviously visas have to be issued we have to get workers into the country we have to get the facilities restarted.
So we've been doing steadily since the facilities were shut in preservation work to make sure that the facilities are protected and that we are ready for a restart.
There's extensive planning around the restart.
So I think as we work to get approval to restart that field it really just depends on how long it's going to take before that restart initiates.
But at this point in time we can restart in a relatively short period of time.
Couple of quarters I would say.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Doug.
Yup.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Your question please? Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Hey.
A follow-up just from earlier comments and then I have a separate question.
I wasn't quite clear what you're saying about the dividend.
Did you say that the 27-year record is not of increases in per-share dividends but is an absolute payout? I think that's what...? It's an annual payment record yes.
So we're looking at the dollars that you pay out as an amount? Is that  that's the increase...
That's correct.
Okay.
That's correct.
Okay.
So what you're saying is it may not increase on a per-share basis? Each year it may not.
But the payment in each year has increased 27 years.
Yeah given all the moving parts here if we could just  I'm sorry if I missed it but are we still reiterating the $3.1 million a day for 2017 and is that changing with the asset sale element here? I'm not clear if you've increased your asset sale target.
And I think your net asset sales from the $3.1 million a day is that correct? And furthermore is the cash flow neutrality target dependent on asset sales? And I'm again not clear if you've increased the asset sales.
And finally is the cash flow neutrality a number at which you keep volumes flat or you grow? Thanks.
Yeah so let me just go back and talk about the original objectives that we put out in 2017 and $70 oil and the cash flow neutrality.
That  the assumption that we had in there was independent of asset sales at the $70 price.
Now depending upon where you go on price I have indicated that we would continue to work our cost structure.
We would continue to work our capital outlays.
I think we also need to keep asset sales in the portfolio.
It is an arrow in the quiver.
It is a lever that we would have.
And what we showed you back in March we were cash flow neutral covering the dividend without asset sales in there.
Depending upon where prices end obviously I think that's a lever that we still need to have in the  available to us.
Upstream</span></strong> So when we gave you the SAM information in March we had about 65 000 decrease from the 2014 to 2017 in asset sales.
And that as Pat said can certainly change as we determine what the level of asset sales is going to be.
But the $3.1 million is really driven by the major capital projects that are under construction that are going to be coming online.
I think one of the key points was as we also said in March those volumes that are contributed are accretive from a cash margin standpoint.
So as those projects come online we still see that as the main driver of our growth and then we just have to evaluate both from a divestment standpoint and any moderation in capital into the base what the impacts of that might be.
Okay.
So we're sticking with the $3.1 million.
It's not necessarily contingent.
You're not adjusting for asset sales but neither are you adjusting for the project issues that you talked about in the call.
The cash flow neutrality doesn't or does include asset sales and can you grow from there in 2017 if you are cash flow neutral? Thanks.
Upstream</span></strong> Yeah I think from the standpoint that the $3.1 million is an outcome.
It was $3.3 million and as the North America gas pricing came substantially lower and we saw it staying lower we pulled back some investment from North America gas and brought our target down accordingly.
At this point we're still at $3.1 million we still have all these projects that are under construction and driving forward but obviously we just have to see if this very low price condition persists.
It may have some impact.
The $3.1 million is good a number as an outcome that I can drive it to at this point in time.
In terms of going forward we'll actually see our capital programs.
We've talked about moderate quite a bit because we're not going to be trying to do the  and accomplish the organic growth that we're underway right now.
So as we look forward we're evaluating that now we'll see some momentum continue.
Projects like Gorgon have two trains that will come on Trains two and Trains three and then the ramp ups that are associated with those Trains.
Wheatstone will have a second Train coming on.
We'll have some other projects that are still in the ramp up phase.
So I see some momentum carrying past 2017.
Those are also going to be strong volumes from a cash margin standpoint.
And then as we look out into the next decade a lot of that is going to depend on the options that we've been able to preserve and the degree to which we've moved to any of the pre-FID projects forward.
That's part of the work that's undergoing now in our business plan.
Okay.
So I don't want to go on too much with it.
But just a final specific one with the cash neutrality does include asset sales.
So in the $70 case the answer was no it did not.
Depending upon what case you're going forward with here a $60 case a $50 case whatever your case is I want to preserve that degree of flexibility for us.
Our primary levers are going to be getting our cost structure down and getting our capital program down for whatever price environment prevails out there.
But depending upon where prices do go I don't want to take off our available set of options.
I don't want to take asset sales off that available set of options.
Okay.
I understand.
Can I slip in another one? Why was the...? Investor Relations</span></strong> You see Paul we're overtime.
We got a couple of guys (01:03:43).
Yeah.
I'll let you go.
Thank you.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alastair Syme from Citi.
Your question please? Hi everyone.
Can I just ask on the impairment exactly what it was that triggered it? Is it just oil price or is it something about assets going up for sale or some geological review? Yeah so...
And can you can say what oil price it is? I can answer most of those questions here.
The trigger really was a lowering of our corporate longer-term price outlook on crude oil.
We took that action in May and as you know when there's a trigger event like that we do need to run impairment tests on our assets.
Any time there's a significant trigger whether it be a reduced price outlook or increased costs or some change in the geology in the reserve or production profile those are elements that when that trigger occurs we need to do the impairment reviews.
And we have a process set up where we look at that every quarter.
In this particular instance the vast majority of the impairments related to Papa Terra and that was a price-induced crude oil price-induced impairment.
We did have a couple of other smaller assets in this category as well where they were assets held for sale where we were writing it down basically to what we felt was the realizable value.
And on the oil price? Is it possible to talk around that? Right.
We're not going to give you our proprietary oil price.
I can just say the revised outlook was really based on two factors.
One had to do with the rate we were expecting of global GDP growth and in particular around China so we've seen softening in China and we've taken our view of that down accordingly.
And the second major factor that lowered our overall price outlook had to do with the U.S.
tight oil shale produceability.
We've seen obviously much stronger production coming out of the U.S.
and with the ingenuity and cost efficiency of the U.S.
industry we've seen costs continue to fall and economics of those barrels continue to rise and so that puts more supply onto the market place.
And so it's those two factors that's led us to lowering our longer term price outlook.
Right.
And finally is really anything taken on Big Foot other than the impairment or in the suspension project suspension (01:06:07)? No.
Nothing of any material size no.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Alastair.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you and guys thanks for letting the call run over.
I really appreciate you letting that.
I just want to get on with the end here.
I guess I wanted to kind of follow up on a couple of things that Paul mentioned.
I really had two specifics.
But $11 billion out of $15 billion on disposals what is your thought on raising disposal target at this point given that you've still got two and a half years left in the program? It would seem you've got a lot of upside potentials.
So that's my first.
All right.
And we're not in a position to move that target at this point.
We just moved that target back in March.
We feel very good about the assets that we've been able to move forward and the value that we have captured for that.
So we have a number of assets kind of lined up in our own mind about how we could meet that $15 billion target over the next several months 18 months or so.
But it really will depend on whether or not that value is capturable.
And we're not going to just sell the asset for the sake of meeting a target.
We want to capture value while we do it.
So I'm not in a position to raise that target at this point.
We feel good about where we sit.
When we get to March of next year if we have a different view we'll update it at that time.
Appreciate it.
My follow up and I guess last question of the call is on Gorgon not so much on the timing of the startup I think Jay's been pretty clear on that but the timing of getting to full capacity because obviously the cash flow delta that comes from the slowdown in spending versus the cash flow contribution is quite important.
And I guess what I am getting at is if everyone is really starting to think lower for longer what does the cash contribution look like and how long does it take to get to full capacity? So I don't know how you want to try and answer that but if you could help us with the contribution from Gorgon when it does come on that would be  Gorgon (01:08:18) that would be very helpful.
Upstream</span></strong> So our current view on Gorgon is that each Train the second Train should start up about seven months after the first Train and then followed by four to six months for the third Train.
And it should take around eight months on the first Train to get to capacity is our plan and then six months for Trains 2 and Trains 3.
So you can kind of put all that together to get a rough profile of what Gorgon's going to look like coming forward.
And even in the lower price environment the cash generation that it has is still substantial so we're looking forward to getting that cash on stream.
Okay.
I think that was our last call.
I want to thank everybody for your time and attention here this morning and I'll turn it back to you Jonathan.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation Mr.
John Watson.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks Jonathan.
Welcome to Chevron's third quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington our Vice President and CFO who you know very well and Frank Mount our General Manager of Investor Relations.
We will refer to the slides that are available on our website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you read that cautionary statement that is on slide 2.
I will now turn the call over to Pat who will take you through our financials briefly.
Pat.
All right.
Thanks John.
I'll be presenting four slides on third quarter results.
Our normal earnings and production variance slides are available in the appendix section of the presentation which is available on our website.
Starting now with slide 3 an overview of our financial performance.
Third quarter earnings were $2 billion or $1.09 per diluted share.
Excluding foreign exchange and impairments earnings totaled $1.9 billion or $1.01 per share.
On this basis third quarter results were modestly better than second quarter despite a much weaker oil market.
This reconciliation is also available in the appendix.
Cash from operations for the quarter was $5.4 billion.
Our debt ratio at quarter end was just under 19%.
During the third quarter we paid $2 billion in dividends.
Earlier in the week we declared a $1.07 per share dividend payable in the fourth quarter.
This takes our 2015 annual dividend to $4.28 per share and makes 2015 the 28th consecutive year where we have increased annual per-share dividend payments.
Turning to slide 4 cash generated from operations was $5.4 billion during the third quarter and nearly $15 billion year-to-date.
Downstream cash generation strength was sustained in the third quarter while upstream cash flow fell commensurate with an approximate 20% drop in global oil prices between quarters.
As of September 30th working capital effects reduced 2015 operating cash flow by $2.3 billion.
Year-to-date proceeds from asset sales were $5.4 billion bringing our total over the last seven quarters to more than $11 billion.
We are tracking very well against our four-year asset divestment target of $15 billion.
Cash capital expenditures were $6.8 billion for the quarter $800 million lower than second quarter.
Year-to-date cash capital expenditures were $22 billion down $3.6 billion or 14% compared to the same period in 2014.
At quarter end our cash and cash equivalents were $13.2 billion and our net debt position was $22.6 billion.
Debt issuance through nine months has amounted to $8 billion.
Slide 5 compares current quarter earnings with the same period last year.
Third quarter 2015 earnings were approximately $3.6 billion lower than third quarter 2014 results.
Upstream earnings decreased $4.6 billion between quarters virtually all of this related to significantly lower realizations between periods.
Downstream results increased by $824 million primarily driven by higher margins and favorable foreign exchange effects partially offset by the absence of third quarter 2014 gains on asset sales.
The variance in the other segment was mainly lower environmental reserve additions in particular the absence of a reserve taken last year in the third quarter related to a closed mining operation.
I will now compare results for the third quarter 2015 with the second quarter of 2015.
Third quarter earnings were $1.5 billion higher than second quarter results.
Upstream earnings increased by 2.3 billion primarily reflecting the absence of second quarter impairments and other related charges worth $2.6 billion.
Lower realizations reduced earnings between quarters but a favorable swing in foreign exchange and lower exploration expenses were largely offsetting.
Downstream earnings decreased $745 million mainly due to the absence of a $1.7 billion in asset sale gains recorded in the second quarter.
The current quarter also saw stronger margins and volumes particularly in the U.S.
favorable foreign exchange impacts as well as lower operating expenses and positive timing effects in the face of declining prices.
The variance in the other segment was primarily unfavorable tax items partially offset by lower corporate charges.
John will now provide an update on the current priorities and focus areas.
Okay.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to slide 7 I would like to start by reinforcing that our priorities  financial priorities are unchanged.
Our first priority is to maintain the dividend and grow it as the pattern of earnings and cash flow permit.
As Pat mentioned we announced our quarterly dividend earlier this week and are very proud of the fact that we've increased the annual per-share payout for 28 consecutive years.
Back in March we committed to delivering free cash flow to cover the dividend in 2017.
At that time the futures market was envisioning $70 prices in 2017.
Today the futures market is lower but our intent remains the same.
Our goal is to balance our cash equation by completing projects under construction and reducing capital spend and operating expenses to levels consistent with the current market conditions.
We will also continue to divest assets where we can obtain good value.
We will achieve this while operating all businesses safely and reliably.
I'll address each topic on this slide on the slides that follow.
First a little bit of an overview on the market.
It's clear that low prices have reduced upstream earnings for the sector and for Chevron we're no exception.
Prices are low because the market is producing more than consumers want but the markets are showing signs of rebalancing.
Using Wood Mac data this chart depicts worldwide liquid supply with the black line and demand in red.
The blue represents the shortfall from or surplus to inventory.
In the early part of the decade the pattern was clear.
Supply could not keep up with demand in part because of supply disruptions in the Middle East and North Africa.
The success of shale in the U.S.
and some growing production from Iraq allowed the market to rebalance for first several months of 2014.
However note the spike in production when the Saudis increased production and the shale growth continued its surge in late 2014.
The resultant 2 million barrels per day surplus has pushed prices down.
Suppliers are adjusting.
World production peaked and turned down last month.
U.S.
production particularly shales has peaked and is now in decline.
We expect this trend to continue and accelerate at current prices.
Demand is strong as low prices provide stimulus to the consumers in the U.S.
and elsewhere leading to annual growth of 1 million to 1.5 million barrels per day.
Markets will likely rebalance at some point next year though seasonal demand patterns are apt to blur the exact timing.
With a new equilibrium will come price recovery which is one of the levers that will help balance our cash equation.
While we're confident in a price recovery the timing of course is uncertain.
We're taking actions that will allow Chevron to compete effectively in a low price environment while positioning us effectively for value growth over the longer term.
Turn to slide 9.
A second lever to help us balance cash flow is volume growth.
As most are aware we expect to see a significant inflection point over the next two years as a number of major capital projects move from being cash consumers to cash generators.
Gorgon and Wheatstone are obvious contributors but the list is long starting with Lianzi in West Africa.
Over the next several quarters we expect a progression of start-ups that will include Angola LNG Mafumeira Sul Moho Nord Sonam  all these are in West Africa.
Chuandongbei in China the Bangka development in Indonesia Alder in the North Sea the Chevron fields chemical project on the U.S.
Gulf Coast and of course three trains at Gorgon and two trains at Wheatstone.
Our strong shale and tight portfolio particularly in the Permian gives us low-cost short-cycle investment opportunities that nicely supplement production growth from the major capital projects.
In the shale and tight class our focus is on high grading our investment opportunities to maximize returns and cash flow.
We like our portfolio diversity which when market conditions improve will provide growth opportunities.
In slide 10 we're in the final stages of commissioning systems to allow start-up of Train 1 at Gorgon.
At the plant our focus is on starting up the process units ahead of commencing liquefaction.
An LNG cool down cargo is planned to arrive mid-December to assist in cooling down the LNG tanks and associated facilities prior to first LNG export.
The Jansz-Io Field sub-C infrastructure is fully complete.
We've opened the first two wells to the Jansz pipeline confirming the full operability of these sub-C systems.
Our current outlook for loading the first LNG cargo is early 2016.
We are continuing to make good progress on Trains 2 and 3 with all Train 2 and nine of 13 Train 3 modules installed and hookups under way.
At Wheatstone all sub-C infrastructure and over 100 kilometers of flowlines have been installed.
Hookup and commissioning of the offshore platform continues on plan.
All nine wells are drilled with the top of the reservoir with four of nine wells now completed and sub-C trees installed.
At the plant 17 of the 24 modules required for first LNG have been delivered and all refrigeration compressors and gas turbine generators have been installed.
Installation of all pipe racks and electrical switchgear buildings on the product loading facility is now complete as is start-up of the power systems in the plant operations center.
We're still targeting the first LNG cargo by year-end 2016 however we continue to work to mitigate Wheatstone schedule pressures from previous delays in module delivery.
We've posted some new pictures today and I encourage you to look at them on our investor website at Chevron.com.
Turn to slide 11.
Another lever to deliver free cash flow is reduce capital spending.
As indicated during our March Analyst Day we have significant flexibility in our capital program as we complete projects under construction.
Given the near-term price outlook we're exercising more discretion and pacing projects that have not reached final investment decision.
We are also negotiating cost reductions from suppliers.
Overall our investment programs are being set at levels that will enable us to complete and ramp-up the projects under construction fund high-return short-cycle investments preserve options for viable long-cycle projects and finally ensure safe reliable operations.
We expect capital exploratory spend in 2016 to be in the range of $25 billion to $28 billion down from $35 billion this year.
We expect further reductions in 2017 and 2018 into the $20 billion to $24 billion range depending on business conditions.
Of specific note the plan does include funding for the wellhead pressure management and future growth project at Tengiz in Kazakhstan which has undergone rigorous engineering and readiness reviews based on learnings from other projects.
Turn to slide 12 to another cash flow improvement lever.
We're working on reducing cost across the company and are beginning to see the results.
Compared to prior-year day periods enterprise operating costs are 7% lower.
In the third quarter to third quarter comparison they're 12% lower.
On another basis year-to-date upstream unit operating expenses are down 13% versus last year.
At this point we have identified spend reductions of approximately $4 billion on an annual full run rate basis.
About half of this is coming through organizational reviews and portfolio rationalization.
And about half working through the supply chain.
On the organizational side lower investment activity portfolio changes and efficiency reviews across the upstream gas and midstream and the corporate and service company groups are expected to result in employee reductions of between 6 000 to 7 000.
A similar number of contractor reductions are anticipated over the same period.
Supply chain initiatives including rate reductions greater equipment standardization project re-scoping and timing optimization are expected to contribute approximately$2 billion also on an annual run rate basis.
An example we're leveraging our enterprise spend for drill pipe across the company and we're seeing cost reductions of up to 35%.
These supply chain benefits will show up as lower operating expense lower capital expenditures and lower cost to goods sold.
Finally we're seeing efficiency improvements throughout the organization which are driving improved value capture.
As an example in the last year we have seen the drilling cycle time from spud to rig release reduced by 55% within our Permian horizontal drilling program.
Turning to slide 13 a final cash flow lever is asset sales.
These are a normal part of portfolio work and contribute proceeds to help manage the balance sheet.
We divest assets that no longer have a strategic fit or where we no longer see the cost-effective application of our technology where future investments do not compete for capital within our portfolio and where we can obtain good value.
So there are a number of drivers on asset sales.
As you know we made a commitment to generate $15 billion from the asset sales program from 2014 through 2017 and over the last seven quarters we made real good progress and achieved $11 billion of this goal.
From today out through 2017 we could see another $10 billion in sales proceeds.
There's a range around this new expectation because of uncertainties on future market conditions.
We're only going to sell assets where we can obtain good value.
Turn to slide 14.
We expect to end this year within the production guidance range we provided back in January.
Over the next couple of years you will see the growth projects we've talked about for some time come onstream.
Gorgon and Wheatstone and Angola LNG are collectively expected to provide the majority of our volume growth.
This growth will not be realized at one time as there's a ramp-up over three years and there's variability depending upon start date.
We expect offshore projects the majority coming from West Africa also to be a significant part of our growth.
Our projected shale and tight ramp-up is steady though the current price environment is expected to lead to a slower pace of growth than we anticipated at our March Analyst Day.
Similarly our future base business spending is influenced by the current environment and its impact on economics and partner funding capabilities.
We anticipate lower base business spending and as a result expect to see higher decline rates compared to our more recent pattern.
Under these assumptions we're anticipating a 13% to 15% increase in production from year-end 2015 to a range of between 2.9 million and 3 million barrels per day in 2017.
In 2018 we expect volume growth momentum to continue largely because of project ramp-up schedules.
Note this range excludes the impact of divestments.
Their specific timing is difficult to predict.
Actual production growth is also dependent upon production sharing contract effects and the Partitioned Zone restart timing.
We will issue further guidance for 2016 production as we normally would in January.
Turning to slide 15 that brings me back where I started.
We like the go-forward prospect for energy as we are constructive on the long-term price outlook but sober about the current realities of lower prices.
We have consistent and clear financial priorities.
We are taking significant action to balance the cash equations and cover the dividend with free cash flow by 2017.
We expect to deliver volume growth and emerge on the other side of this downturn leaner and better.
All of our actions are geared toward delivering value through dividend growth and stock price appreciation.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We're now ready to take some questions.
Keep in mind that we have a full queue so please try to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up if necessary.
We'll do our best to get all of your questions answered.
Jonathan please open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question come from the line of Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Phil.
John thanks for the full update here.
My first question is that one of the criticisms I continue to hear from investors about big oil is that most of the companies in the industry are just trying to manage two dividend coverage at a point in the cycle rather than through the cycle.
And I fully appreciate Chevron has a full stable of capital projects over these past few years so the spending flexibility is very high.
But I was hoping you could just help us tie this new capital spending guidance to what kind of underlying capital spending would be required to keep production flat or what kind of long-term growth rate you think Chevron could achieve using this lower capital base? It's a fair question.
We do try to invest through the cycle.
We got into a period at the early part of this decade where we had some good projects that were frankly stacked up on top of one another.
We thought it was the right time to take Gorgon forward.
We had good contracts in place.
And frankly it was somewhat countercyclical when we started in 2009 very late in 2009.
Wheatstone very similar.
We thought it was a good market and we needed to move that one as well.
We also had Gulf of Mexico projects that following the moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico came on  we started it at the same time.
So we went through a period of capital spend that was pretty high.
We thought these were very good projects but there's no doubt that we were going through a period of heavy capital spend.
And we kept our balance sheet pretty strong to enable us to withstand the ups and downs that we see in the market.
Now we saw prices rise dramatically and then we've seen them come back down a little harder than we thought so we do have to manage through this cycle.
But I think we've been able to weather that pretty well.
We are completing the projects that we've got.
We're working to preserve the options that we have on some of the nice opportunities we have going forward.
But we do have to live within our means here and if you look at the  as you know very well when we look at the pattern of dividends it's a nice smooth pattern with increases over 28 years.
The pattern of earnings is a lot more volatile during that period depending upon commodity prices.
So we do invest through the cycle with some of these long projects we have to be able to do that.
But we have had a period of heavy spend for  that we've had to go through.
So there is an adjustment when prices go from 100 to 50 and we're just having to deal with that.
But certainly we're investing through the cycle but making some adjustments to deal with the low prices we've got.
And is there a specific growth rate you think you can achieve with this new spending base? Well  certainly we're going to see disproportionately strong growth through 2017 frankly into 2018 that we think will be very good.
Long-term overall hydrocarbons are growing in the 1% to 1.5% range.
And so that's probably a more reasonable expectation going forward but frankly we make our investment decisions based on what we can do that is economic.
If you look at the history for companies our size growing at something significantly greater than where aggregate demand for oil and gas is growing is pretty hard to do.
And frankly we'll be guided by what we think we can do economically.
We'll give you a little bit more information on what we think post-2017 as we finalize our business plan.
We're still grinding  the reason we gave you a range on some of these capital numbers is we're still grinding through that business plan right now to be sure we strike the right balance and that level of spending will dictate what the growth will be in some of the out years.
Just so you have some confidence though I made specific comments on the future growth project the Wellhead Pressure Management project in Tengiz as one example of investing through the cycle.
And that's a significant project which we're working through final details with government and partner.
But we're doing a lot of early work on that project and that's one that as we take final investment decision we won't see the production from that until the next decade.
And so that and other investments will provide growth going forward.
Thanks Phil.
Sure Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Your question please.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
How are you doing Paul? Inc.</span></strong> Very good.
Thank you.
John two questions.
One is really short and let me go for that first.
With the  the CapEx is saying that the base operation decline rate will be higher.
I think for the last five years you guys have been about 3% to 4%.
Do you have a new number for us? Yeah.
Actually we've been better than that.
Our base business has been more like 1%.
It's been less than 2% certainly during that period and we see it being more like 3%.
And so frankly if you take just the difference between about 1% and 3% and apply it to our base level of production you get a little bit lower production than you might have seen otherwise.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Excellent.
Second one is a little bit more strategic I think.
If we look at hallmark for Chevron it has always been on the LNG deepwater macro (00:23:47) project development.
But I think the market is concerned this type of development there's a high-cost curve has increasingly choose the last several years at the high end of the industry.
And that also that the recent cost deflation that they have not seen as much comparing to the short cycle.
So the question is that do you agree with that view and is concerned that the hallmark of the company what you're good at and of that to be at the high end of the supply cost curve? If you sort of agree with that what initiative that Chevron is thinking to try to improve your cost curve position so that they will become say at the top quartile or top half at least.
Yeah.
That is a philosophical question and I'll give you a few comments.
First I think it's true that onshore costs have come down more than offshore costs.
So I think that's just factually true particularly in the United States but also around the world.
So rig rates and service costs things of that sort.
So that certainly is true.
It's also true that some short cycle base business spend traditionally has lowered cost once you have infrastructure in place and it certainly is true that some of the shales are low cost.
I think what's important though is if you step back and look at the market overall it's a 95 million barrel a day market.
The shales are about 5 million barrels a day.
And there's a decline curve that's very rapid in the shales of course in every other producing asset.
And it's going to take contributions from all asset classes to meet demand.
And so we're going to need all forms of supply and what we're doing is trying to take on cost reductions and get better everywhere to take costs down.
And we've been able to do that.
We've shown you some charts periodically and  I mean offshore is about 25% of worldwide production and Deepwater production continues to grow and will continue to make contributions to worldwide supply.
But if you look at drilling and completions technology we've talked about things like the single-trip multizone frac pack which is just a more efficient to get in and out of the hole to do work.
If you look at ocean-bottom nodes work that we're doing that really gives us better seismic imaging on the ocean floor subsea systems and boosting technology.
All these things are bringing cost down.
In fact in our Gulf of Mexico operations our Deepwater we've been able to reduce drilling days significantly.
Our drilling days for 10 000 feet are down 25% over the last two years.
So we've been able to take those costs down.
And I think you're also likely to see the work that we did in the Gulf of Mexico to consolidate holdings to create  for the industry to collaborate to create hub class developments will also help with economies of scale.
So I think you'll see bigger hubs but I think all classes of assets at the current low prices will have some spending that will fall out.
So it's  some of your points are true but I think costs  you'll see costs over time come down everywhere and of course these projects are over a long period of time.
LNG are 40-year projects so you have a different lifecycle to these things as well which can impact  some long-cycle LNG tend to be  because they're long-cycle tend to be a little bit lower than  in RORs but they have a very long life and cash flow.
So they have a little bit different characteristic to them.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Your question please.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Thanks for all of the color.
Just on the opening remarks I think you said slower ramp-up on projects.
So I presume that's going to be LNG just looking at the cartoon which you put in the presentation in terms of LNG volumes.
Maybe just a bit of a color around Gorgon and Wheatstone.
Thanks.
Well we said that the ramp-up would take place over time.
The key is getting them started and getting first LNG and then the ramp-up will take place over time.
So I think all I was trying to say with the ramp-up is that they will take place over the next three years.
My comment wasn't so much about the ramp-up as it was that there will be a start date.
Just in terms of what we're expecting I indicated that Gorgon will see first cargo in the first quarter.
I had updates yesterday afternoon on both Gorgon and Wheatstone and I was pleased with the progress that I heard.
I gave you some of the kind of key points that  the kind of proof points to where we're headed there.
ALNG will start up early next year as well.
I mean there's no secret that this has been a challenge as we work through some of the engineering issues but once that gets started I think we've addressed some of the engineering issues that we encountered.
There were also some technical bulletins that were issued by the technology owner.
We took care of those as well during this downtime.
So ALNG will start up early next year as well and my update on Wheatstone the key issue there has been module delivery.
We had some modules out of Malaysia that were late.
The team is working very hard to mitigate schedule there and what I mean by that is with some delay in modules we're really now looking at both construction timing and some of the start-up and commissioning work that will need to be done.
We've taken a close look at all the other projects that have been done in Australia and elsewhere on the East Coast of Australia and Gorgon and really looking to see if we can take time  taking time out of those schedules by really taking all the best practices that were effective in those projects to keep us back on a fourth quarter 2016 start-up schedule.
So the work is progressing well.
The point in having a range on production is really that a quarter one way or another when you've got projects that go up to 200 000 barrels a day at full capacity makes a difference.
And so it's just reflecting that reality.
Yeah okay.
Second question's on cash flow maybe for Pat or John.
So you can see this year you've done $17.2 billion before working capital so you could gross that up and say $23 billion.
Obviously you've got these new projects so they'll add cash.
And your cash CapEx is going down.
So your overall group CapEx is going down to $20 billion to $24 billion.
So you can see how the dividend is sustainable in sort of this year's condition.
So that works fine.
It's still a long way away from the cash flow that was presented a few years back at higher oil prices.
So I guess my question is is there anything this year in the cash generation of the company that you feel has underperformed? Because I guess the downstream has been pretty strong.
Maybe it's start-up costs in some of these projects.
No.
Actually I think if you look at our cash flow and the rule of thumb that we gave you for the effective oil prices was roughly $350 million after tax in earnings and cash flow for every dollar per barrel.
And you multiply it by the change in barrel I'd think you'd find that our cash flow is better than what you might expect by that rule of thumb.
Now we're trying to diminish that or reduce that rule of thumb by taking on costs and other things to get better at what we do but I think you'd find that between those rules of thumb for oil and gas I think you'd find that it's pretty consistent with that.
And in fact it's better because our downstream has performed so well.
So I mean the grim reality is when you have on oil prices in the $40s as we saw in the third quarter as you look across the sector particularly in the United States it's tough sledding.
And if you've got natural gas prices where they are in the U.S.
it's a challenge.
But we're taking it on by reducing costs.
You saw some of the pretty aggressive actions that we're taking around the world to size the organization at the right level and we think if we get some recovery in prices you'll see a nice pop from that.
But I can't control prices.
I can only control my costs and spend.
So it's just oil sensitivity.
I understand.
Thanks.
Great.
Thanks Ed.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gammel from Jefferies.
Your question please.
Yes thanks very much.
Hi everyone.
You've already touched on a lot of drivers here John.
But I was just trying to reconcile the new production range of 2.9 to 3.0 relative to the 3.1 million barrels a day that was presented at the analyst meeting.
And I wasn't really clear rather the Partitioned Zone was included in the 2.9 to 3.0 or rather it's out because that's obviously a big reconciling factor.
And then how much of it would essentially just be production being pushed into 2018 versus an actual lower production figure from declines? Yeah there are lots of effects that are in there.
First off the biggest effect in the change versus what we've talked about previously was my comment on declines.
You can't take  depending on which numbers in the range you want to use we've taken $15 billion of capital out of the business in the go-forward projections from 2016 and 2017 in total.
And that impacts as I said base decline.
So if you add 2% to the decline that's 100 000 barrels a day over a couple of years.
So that's number one.
But to answer your question about the Partitioned Zone that production a year ago was roughly 80 000 barrels a day.
And if you look at where we expect it to be in 2017 it was somewhere under 70 000 barrels a day.
And that is included in both estimates.
We expect to be back online by that time.
I just returned from the Middle East and I'll tell you this has been pretty perplexing to me why we remain shut-in.
You have two great allies in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait who are having a disagreement over administrative matters in the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
It's in the Kuwaiti portion of the zone.
And so they administer work visas equipment permits and things like that and they stopped issuing them.
And so we ended up shutting in May and so we've lost the better part of 80 000 barrels a day net to our production.
The reason I think production will come back is because the Kuwaitis themselves are actually being hurt by shutting in a gross amount of 200 000 barrels a day half of which is theirs.
They are hurt; Chevron is hurt but Saudi Arabia is able to increase production elsewhere.
So I think there's motivation for the Kuwaitis to begin issuing work permits and allowing work to continue while whatever disputes are resolved.
And our plan is for that production to come back by 2017.
In terms of other factors that are out there we are high-grading some of the investment that we're doing in the shales so while the growth profile will be nice it'll be a little lower.
Certainly in the gas area we've curtailed spending.
We have really gotten our costs down very well in the Marcellus.
We can compete with anybody there now.
But nobody makes money that I'm aware of at $1.50 gas which is where we are now.
And futures prices remain low.
So we can compete with anybody but for the time being we're scaling back investment there.
So these are the kinds of effects that we've rolled in as well as schedule and timing of projects.
A notable change from where we had been previously of course is Bigfoot which we show no production in 2017 for.
Okay.
That's obviously a big factor then.
Great.
And John just as a follow up.
I think you kind of answered this in your response here but if I'm looking at the capital spend slide in the analysts meeting I was looking at $32 billion or so of capital spend in 2016 with some flexibility around that.
Is the incremental flexibility that you've identified in the numbers you put forward today mostly coming out of that base investment which is why you're seeing the higher decline curves? It's a little bit of both.
At $70 when we presented the information that we did to you earlier that was with the expectation that we would be able to take costs out and that certain projects would continue.
So we had funding in the out years.
I mean again some of it was ultimately discretionary around certain projects.
Some of that has been removed or deferred in some cases.
And that's just reflecting the realities that we're seeing lower prices.
So there's some in large projects but there is also a good chunk of it that's coming in the base investment area.
Thanks Jason.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning John.
Good morning Doug.
John I'm wondering how the  first of all you've given a lot of information this morning.
We really appreciate that so thank you for all the disclosure.
But when we get to 2017 let's assume your prognosis on oil prices or at least the supplied line balance is a little bit more optimistic.
How does Chevron's sort of strategic go-forward view change in terms of perhaps reupping into another round of large scale projects of which you clearly have plenty of options versus being with the short cycle I guess flexibility until it sorts itself out? And what was really at the back of mind is I'm curious if you feel that you've got a big enough footprint to offer you that kind of flexibility.
And I've got a quick follow-up please.
Yeah it's a very fair question.
I commented a little bit earlier as you know well Doug.
We went through this period with a number of projects stacked on top of one another.
I don't think you'll ever see something like that in our  it was a series of circumstances that got us in that position.
I don't think you're likely to see that.
We do have a good queue of projects.
I talked about the Anchor discovery which could mature into a project and we've got others.
So we'll take the best of those projects and move them forward.
But I think on balance you'll see a higher proportion of shorter cycle spend.
Five to seven years ago we didn't really have a good understanding of our Permian basin position for example.
So you will see over time additional monies that will go to the shale developments.
I mentioned that I had some reviews in my business units yesterday.
I also had reviews with my four shale organizations which are nicely sharing their successes.
And the Permian is doing well.
I mentioned the Marcellus is doing very well.
The Duvernay in Canada they've taken the practices and implemented them very quickly to get down the cost curve and we're working closely with YPF and trying to put those same practice in place.
We've delineated we know where the sweet spots are down there.
Now we're starting a horizontal drilling program and we expect to get better.
But I think you'll see a more balanced portfolio and I think you'll see projects that will have good economics at moderate prices as we work to standardize and take costs down.
So we'll have some optionality in the portfolio.
And I just  I can't envision having two big LNG projects at the same time.
The Tengiz project is a significant capital project but I don't see anything like having two Gorgon and Wheatstones plus several Deepwater developments stacked on top of one another.
I appreciate the answer John.
My follow-up is really it's kind of on the head count reduction and the fact that you are now getting to the point where these major developments are coming onstream.
Are there any portfolio consequences of having to amortize or rationalize a smaller head count across a much larger portfolio? And of course the tail changes when Gorgon and Wheatstone come on.
So I'm just wondering if outside of the disposals you've given us so far is there another round of portfolio restructuring that we should maybe look for at some point in Chevron's future? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Yeah there are some changes that will happen in the portfolio.
First just a general comment on the people reductions.
One of the large areas for reductions is in Australia.
As we ramp down these projects obviously you need fewer people.
That was known and in most cases we had  Australia has a provision for fixed-term employees and so those  some of those people will be coming down off  will be coming off the payroll.
We've got a significant reorganization that's taking place in Angola.
And frankly as we've gone through our business units and gone through our portfolio we have found ways to make our organization simpler.
I don't know any other way to say it.
And so we'll be seeing reductions in a lot of different places.
Some of them have already happened in the Marcellus in the North Sea and in our home offices.
So we've season those kinds of reductions.
There is some portfolio work that I would  some of it I would classify as normal as assets mature.
You saw the  for example we sold our Netherland operations.
Our view was that the Chad business was sort of on that  a lot of the value had already been extracted so we sold out of that business.
So there are assets that get mature where another operator  as you know well there are smaller companies or others that want to grind out that last little bit of value that may take on opportunities that won't fit in our portfolio.
And so sometimes there's a good match for them and we'll sell those.
Those can result in reduced employees and I expect it will.
But I would classify that as a normal part of our business.
These reductions don't include any huge  the reductions that were forecasted don't include a major portion of the divestitures.
The divestiture portion at this point is looked at as maybe 10% of that employee reduction and I would classify it as more routine activity.
Thank you John.
Thanks very much Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
We've covered a lot of ground today so thank you.
John I know other than matching the cash flows improving upon project execution is a key focus for you and Chevron.
Positive advances in the quarter.
Can you discuss the changes you have made here and your confidence that execution will improve as you move through this key execution phase? Yeah you're right.
We are focused on that.
You know Jay Johnson went through some of those in a little bit of detail and Jay of course is really good on projects.
And I guess I would say there are a couple of things that I would highlight.
I mentioned Angola LNG earlier and that is symptomatic of something that's hit the industry I think overall and that is engineering and engineering maturity.
So we simply have to  in order to have better  a better understanding of what we're going to build we have to advance engineering further.
So understanding pipe diameter and things down to a more granular level so that we know what materials we're going to need and we can do better cost estimates is I would say number one.
You know the example we've given is the Tengiz project which is a big one that we'll move forward with here.
But that one  we're over  we're 35% done with the engineering now and we'll be somewhere close to 50% by the time we take final investment decisions.
So that's number one.
But once you complete the engineering you also have to do more reviews of that engineering and I would say at a higher level taking a look at constructability of facilities so that you don't  so that you're sure what you build really is what you want.
I'll give you an example.
One of the changes we're making in Angola LNG is designing more flexibility in the front end of the plant.
It's an associated gas project and so there's greater variability in feed quality.
And I think if we had done more work at the front end perhaps we would have designed that with more flexibility in mind.
So those are the kinds of things that we're going to need to do.
We also have to be very cognizant of the contracting work that is  the kind of contract that you sign and what incentives are in that contract for the contractor.
And that will dictate the level of oversight better.
We're likely  for example we're likely on the Tengiz project to do more in the way of coordinating the activity of subcontractors on that job ourselves.
So all of these things I think are going to make us better not to mention the usual things around quality assurance that the industry have seen and things of that sort.
So the answer is yes we're working on improving execution.
Great.
And my second question Anchor it looks like great appraisal results.
Any comments on reservoir quality size range or next appraisal steps and maybe even somewhat related to Doug's question before.
I mean in a down cycle do you see an advantage in developing these longer cycle assets where you can cement or secure a lower cost structure versus an onshore asset where you benefit faster on cost savings but you will presumably reflate over time with a higher decline rate? Maybe how do you think about that? Yeah.
We have to  we just finished the second well and so we're going to drill  we're likely to have another appraisal well that we'll drill but we're sort of assessing those results.
It's likely to be a hub scale type development.
You recall we've said previously that hub scale assets are going to be 400 million to 500 million barrel type developments and so we feel pretty good about this one.
We've got more work to do but we feel good.
As far as doing them off-cycle this one needs more work to do before we can progress it.
So there's a cycle time to that.
Costs I don't want to give you the wrong impression costs have come down.
Deepwater rig rates you can get deepwater rigs a lot less than previously.
They have come down.
I think the opportunity if you talk to some of the equipment providers they would say the industry can do a better job in standardizing to help them drive costs down.
I think the tendency is to think we can continue to extract money out of the supply chain just based on working rates down but we also have to work with them to help them become more efficient in what they do.
And finally some of the big cost reductions are in drilling efficiency which I noted  which I noted earlier.
So our view  just to be clear our view is that hub class developments in that 400 million to 500 million barrel range can be developed at moderate prices that wouldn't be out of line with the kinds of prices you all are thinking about and that tie-backs in the 100 million to 200 million barrel category can also be economic.
But we're going through our plans right now doing exactly what you described in trying to decide which of these to move countercyclically and which are just going have to wait.
Makes sense.
Thanks.
Thanks Evan.
Thanks Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Hi everyone.
Hey Paul.
John a year ago you were guiding to $40 billion of spending in 2017; now you're guiding to $20 billion to $24 billion.
Can you break down what compromises that $15 billion? And just a very quick follow-up as well.
Can you give us the start date for Tengiz? Thank you.
Yeah but you're saying a year ago.
If you're saying before oil prices dropped yeah we were guiding to a higher level of spend because we've got a good queue of projects and that would be the opportunity set that we would contemplate (50:27).
Yeah I guess what I wanted to know is what projects how much of it is cost saving how much of it is deferred projects? Which projects have been deferred? The specifics of where we got the $15 billion to $20 billion of savings from.
Thank you.
Oh it's across the board.
I mean there are some specific projects.
An example yeah we've talked about the Rosebank project.
We've talked about the Indonesia Deepwater development project.
Both of those are not in these forecasts in terms of significant spend during the planned period.
I think both projects will ultimately go.
Kitimat was on our list.
We're pacing that project as well.
Multiple Angola projects were in pre-feed so there were a lot of projects.
Bear in mind some of these projects we think will go and it could be that they start in the third year of the plan.
But for now a lot of these have come out and we're going to pace them.
But I guesstimate that about half of it is cost savings from lower prices and half is deferred projects.
Is that an  I'm guesstimating.
I just wonder.
Yeah Paul.
Look I don't have a precise number for it.
Certainly our view of development costs for the shales have come down significantly during that period but I don't have a good breakdown for you on that.
Sorry.
Okay and just the start-up for Tengiz? Well it's a function of when we take FID but we'll give you more details on it.
But you can think of it as being into the next decade.
But just to be clear I think that you said that the spending in the 2017 number does include some Tengiz spending? It does.
It does.
Got it.
I mean we've been doing work to get the port ready.
We've been doing work on site infrastructure.
I mean one of the lessons learned on these big capital projects is that you need to take care of some of these certainly long leads in certain cases and site infrastructure and preparation work.
So we're spending some money as part of the feed work that we're doing to get greater certainty on costs.
But this is a five-plus year kind of construction project so you can think of it as being into the next decade.
And we'll give you more detail after we take FID.
Thank you sir.
Sure thank you.
Thank Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Your question please.
Folks good morning.
Just two quick points of clarity if I could.
For one I presume that the CapEx numbers you're providing here include equity affiliate spend.
I think historically that's trended around $4 billion and has been self-funding.
I'm just trying to see if for one making sure that that is in there and is that a fair estimate in those numbers? And then secondly U.S.
natural gas has been ramping up pretty healthy as far as production is concerned.
John you mentioned a low breakeven on Marcellus.
I just wanted to confirm is that the main driver of that? Thanks a bunch.
Yeah.
The answer is yes.
It's $4 billion to $5 billion in equity and affiliate spend.
Remember as we ramp up the Tengiz project we've got the CPChem project.
We've got some significant spending that's taking place in affiliates.
And your second question on Marcellus we're not shutting down activity completely there.
Don't get me wrong.
But we're not going to be running six to eight rigs or anything like that in these kinds of conditions.
Right now we've just a couple of rigs that are running there.
Okay.
And John if I could confirm this.
Equity affiliates that should remain self-funding is that correct? Not necessarily.
I mean in general the answer is yes.
It's depending on where prices are.
I mean it depends on circumstances.
Because as the Tengiz project ramps up there is significant spend.
And there are loan provisions that are being worked as a part of that project some of which will be equity partners' loans.
Okay.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Maybe if I could follow up a little bit on some of your commentary around the longer cycle project spend.
The deferrals that we've seen I mean I guess it comes from a combination of things which is either lower levels of operating cash flow as well as kind of an effort to drive down project costs and improve economics.
As you think going forward of where you are right now I mean your effort to continue to defer at this point is it driven primarily by this point by your outlook on cash flows or do you think that there's still a meaningful amount of either cost deflation on the projects or I guess strategic engineering improvements on your end that have to happen? If cash flow is sure to improve do you feel like you're at a point where the industry will be able to start to re-invest in those or is there still gains to be made? It's a fair question.
I would say a lot of it is cash flow driven right now.
We're still in the final throes of our revisions to the Tengiz project cost estimates but we have a pretty good idea where that's going to land.
And we have a pretty good idea of the sort of the glide path on technology and where costs are going to go for deepwater projects.
But there is some uncertainty on price and look I know my shareholders value our dividend.
I know our shareholders value increases in the dividend.
And I know they value us investing in high-return projects and so there is some uncertainty on price.
And we want to be sure that  we've kept our balance sheet in good condition and we want to be sure we just strike that right balance to continue to pay and grow the dividend and invest in good projects.
So we're just working through the cycle and kind of living within our means while we take cost down.
One of the things that happens if you're taking on fewer projects is the organization will focus harder on getting more efficient at what they do.
And we need to do that.
We've got a very good U.S.
upstream business but we didn't make any money in this quarter.
And so we need to get more efficient at what we do we need to look at our structures and we need to get our costs down.
And in the meantime we're going to be ready for some of the projects that I talked about earlier to move them forward.
We'll have some countercyclical investment but we do need to live within our means.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
So then maybe if I could just get your quick thoughts on maybe on global gas demand Asian gas demand maybe even more in particular and whether probably less is a relation to Gorgon and Wheatstone as those are contracted to a large extent.
But has there been any shift in your view on global gas demand or Asian gas demand longer term? And how would that affect potentially your longer term view on incremental LNG projects going forward? Yeah.
That's a fair question.
I think overall demand is set to grow very rapidly.
And I think the conventional wisdom has been that you're just going to see natural gas displacing coal and gas demand just growing at very rapid rates.
Gas has to be competitive with other options in the portfolio for these developing countries.
Affordability is very much key and so while we see literally a doubling of LNG consumption if you go out 10 years versus now very significant growth in demand I don't think that's changed.
What has changed is the supply picture.
We have seen a number of projects take FID and a number of projects are under construction and the world economy isn't growing quite as fast as we might have thought a few years ago.
It's still growing but it isn't growing quite as rapidly as a few years ago.
And so it's a well-supplied market right now.
There still are contracting opportunities out there.
Customers do value security of supply.
They do value having a known source of supply.
Not everybody wants to run their economy on spot gas.
And so I think there are a number of buyers that want to firm up supply.
For example we signed a medium-term contract earlier this year and we think there are other opportunities to do that.
And as you see slowdown in FIDs on this I think you'll see consuming countries take stock of that and start to think about additional commitments more toward  that would be more geared toward supply in the early to middle part of the next decade.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks John.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Ryan.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Yeah thank you and good morning.
Good morning.
I guess I'd like to kind of get a little more into some of the impacts of potential production declines from  that you've mentioned from the equity spending at Tengiz but think about spending on non-operated projects that you're on or non-operating legacy production and how that may impact the sort of revised production guidance we should think about or even as a challenge in the 18 and beyond world.
I'm not  what  is there a special non-op question or concern? No not a specific one but let's just think about anywhere where you're not necessarily making the decision right.
You're dependent on someone else for that.
How do you maybe take that into account in your forecast as a risk factor? Well certainly we're in dialogue with operators.
For example Total is operator in some of the West Africa projects that are potentially in the portfolio.
We're an operator of some and they're an operator of some.
And so the dialogue has been pretty good.
I would say the biggest area where we can get influenced frankly is in the Permian where we've got some smaller companies and they're very good at what they do but their budgets can move around a little bit.
But that's nothing that we can't deal with and accommodate.
But I would  I don't think that's going to determine our flexibility in our capital budget.
Well I wasn't thinking so much of capital budget as I was just - you mentioned earlier the underlying production decline kind of being close to 1% in your outlook.
You're thinking maybe more of the 2% to 3% and I'm just kind of wondering what would push you to the 3% or potentially beyond the 3% being these things that are not necessarily in your full control.
Well it's  I'm not going to push the 2% to  I'm not going to say the change of 1% to 3% is a function of non-op decisions because I think everyone in the industry is doing similar things now.
We've been reasonably well aligned on budgets with our partners whether we're the operator talking to them or they're the operator talking to us.
Thanks Roger.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next - We've got time for one more.
Certainly.
Our final question comes from the line of Doug Terreson from Evercore ISI Group.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Good morning Doug.
John your new capital management plan appears to be one of the more direct steps towards better capital allocation outcomes that we've seen announced thus far in a super major category on these calls.
And on this point I wanted to see if you'd elaborate a little bit on the drivers of the proposed changes.
Meaning a few minutes ago you talked about how the cyclical element which is in response to lower oil prices and the need for cash flow to cover the dividend at some point was part it.
But also is there an element of the new plan which relates to the more challenging competitive condition that appeared to have been a factor for the longer term industry returns in recent years? So the question's really what's driving the more disciplined approach to investment at Chevron internally when you guys put this together? Meaning is it cyclical is it secular is it both? Could you just spend a minute on that? Yeah.
Truthfully I would say that there's an element of all the things that you described.
I think in general we were heading through a period where we had a disproportionate amount of our spend in big long cycle projects.
So we were going to head to a period where we were going to be digesting those projects and then we would supplement those with a more ratable number of long cycle projects but then continue to invest in that new base of assets that we've acquired.
And so I think that pattern is playing out.
I think the issue is what can we do to enhance returns? We've said before we took down our price deck a little bit from where we were before.
And so there is a new reality in that sense and whether that's due to industry supply conditions or the U.S.
dollar or a lot of other factors that have taken commodities down there is a new reality if you will in the commodity price environment for both oil and gas that we're seeing.
The industry has been fabulously successful in providing supply.
A lot of it is through shale but also elsewhere.
So our focus going forward directionally is consistent with what we would have done anyway.
But we've taken spend down as I commented earlier to help us really focus on getting the most out of the assets that we have and taking costs down so that we can improve returns.
It's unacceptable for us to not be able to make money at whatever commodity price the market is giving us.
And that's where we are.
Now I do think commodity prices will improve and I've said that but we need to improve our returns.
And so I think that's the focus.
And as I commented earlier if you push the organization in that direction  I mean we're already seeing  I mean it's hard to put together a business plan right now because the organization is achieving good things in terms of getting our costs down and it's hard to be forward-looking to know exactly where all the efficiencies might come from as the organization gets more focused on making the best of the assets that they have.
So maybe that's the way I can describe it.
So it's all of the above including taking costs out of bigger projects going forward.
Thanks John.
Okay so.
Well thank you very much.
I would like to thank everyone for your time today.
We appreciate your interest in the company.
Jonathan back to you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today.
Welcome to Chevron's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation Mr.
John Watson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jonathan.
Welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast.
On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Frank Mount the General Manager of Investor Relations.
We'll refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website.
Before we get started please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates projections and other forward-looking statements.
We ask that you review the cautionary statement on slide two.
Turning to slide three today we announced a quarterly loss and annual results that were significantly below prior years.
Pat will walk you through the financial details but prior to that I would like to provide a few thoughts.
In 2015 we delivered strong underlying operating results.
We had one of our best years in personal safety process safety and environmental performance.
On most measures we either matched 2014's record low or set new lows in 2015.
The downstream business produced strong financial performance underpinned by one of the best years ever in terms of facility utilization and reliability.
In upstream we grew production by 2% within the guidance we provided a year ago.
Additionally we logged a five-year reserve replacement ratio of 113%.
Despite the strong operating results an oversupplied market led to prices fall to levels not seen since 2014.
As expected our financial results suffered.
Across the corporation we are responding to this low-price environment.
Our priorities remain completing projects under construction and reducing spend both operating expense and capital to levels consistent with current conditions.
We will also continue to divest assets where we can obtain a good value.
Our number one financial priority is to maintain and grow the dividend.
We have a strong balance sheet for precisely transition times like this.
Pat will now take you through our financial results.
Okay thanks John.
I will be presenting three slides on our financial results.
Additional earnings and production variance slides along with a tabulation of special items are available in the appendix section of the presentation on our website.
Turning now to slide four an overview of our financial performance.
The company's fourth quarter loss was $588 million or $0.31 per diluted share.
Excluding foreign exchange impairments and other special items earnings for the quarter totaled $491 million or $0.26 per share.
For the year earnings were $4.6 billion or $5.6 billion excluding special items and foreign exchange.
Return on capital employed was 2.5% and our debt ratio at year end was approximately 20%.
During the fourth quarter we paid $2 billion in dividends bringing our total for the year to $8 billion or $4.28 per share.
2015 was the 28th consecutive year of annual per share dividend increases.
Turning to slide five cash generated from operations was $4.6 billion during the fourth quarter and $19.5 billion for the full year.
Fourth quarter cash flow declined because of lower commodity prices and lower downstream margins.
Proceeds from asset sales for 2015 were $5.7 billion bringing our two year total to more than $11 billion.
Cash capital expenditures were $7.4 billion for the quarter and $29.5 billion for the full year.
At year end our cash and cash equivalents totaled more than $11 billion.
During 2015 we borrowed approximately $11 billion and at year end our net debt stood at $27 billion resulting in a net debt ratio of approximately 15%.
Slide six compares 2015 full year earnings with 2014.
Earnings for 2015 were $4.6 billion or approximately $14.7 billion lower than the 2014 results.
Special items such as asset impairments project suspensions and other charges along with lower gains on asset sales reduced earnings between periods by $3.1 billion while the change in foreign exchange impacts increased earnings by approximately $300 million.
Upstream earnings excluding special items and foreign exchange decreased $14.6 billion between periods as lower realizations were only slightly offset by higher liftings lower operating costs and other items.
Downstream results excluding special items and foreign exchange increased by $2.2 billion primarily due to higher margins.
The variance in the other segment primarily reflects lower tax items.
I'd like to now turn it back to John.
Thanks Pat.
Turning to slide seven we are aggressively reducing investment and driving cost out of our business.
During 2015 total spend was down approximately $9 billion or more than 12%.
Capital outlays alone were down $6 billion.
Part of this reduction was long scheduled as in-progress major capital projects were completed and outlays ramped down.
In addition capital expenditure savings were achieved because of deliberate choices being made to reprioritize and repace investments and by challenging supply chain costs.
Operating expenses also declined between years.
The largest impact occurred in our upstream and corporate segments reflecting purposeful initiatives to rationalize head count and boost workflow efficiencies.
In upstream declining cost in growing production led to a lower operating cost per barrel which is expected to exceed 10% when the final results are reported in our 10-K.
Looking to 2016 we expect to see additional spend reduction in the range of 13% to 18% as the full year run rate effects of many of the 2015 initiatives come to bear and incremental cost saving projects are implemented.
Turn to slide eight.
Our investment priorities remain consistent.
We will fund investments to ensure safe reliable operations complete the projects already under construction enable investment in high-return short cycle opportunities and preserve options for viable long-cycle projects.
In December we announced a 2016 capital program of $26.6 billion which was within the guidance range provided on our third quarter earnings call.
Since then market conditions have deteriorated and we will be responsive.
Flexibility in our capital program allows discretion in our spend with a likely outcome for 2016 being near the bottom of our guidance range.
Looking beyond 2016 our flexibility will continue to increase and we expect further reductions in our capital program.
Turning to slide nine.
Divestitures are a normal part of our portfolio work.
We will divest assets that no longer have a strategic fit or do not compete for capital with our other investment alternatives.
Our asset sales program has been successful as well-timed transactions have captured good value and generated $11.5 billion in cash through the end of 2015.
Over 2016 and 2017 we are targeting another $5 billion to $10 billion in investments.
Publicly known in-progress transactions include New Zealand and South Africa downstream businesses the Hawaii refinery upstream and pipeline assets in the Gulf of Mexico shelf and gas storage assets in Canada.
Additional opportunities are being pursued and will be disclosed in due course when commercial sensitivities permit.
In all cases we will only sell assets where we can realize fair value.
Turning to slide 10.
In 2015 we grew annual production by 2%.
Ramp-ups at major capital projects including Jack/St.
Malo and Tubular Bells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Bibiyana expansion in Bangladesh along with shale and tight production growth of approximately 30% contributed to increased volumes.
Additionally current prices benefited production through PSC and other entitlement effects.
Offsetting the increases was the effect of a shut-in of the Partitioned Zone production the impact of asset sales and a base decline of less than 2%.
For 2016 our production guidance is a range of flat to 4% growth.
The uncertainty is a reflection of market conditions current activities and divestments.
To clarify production from the Partitioned Zone remains shut in.
The exact timing of production restart is unknown and dependent on dispute resolutions between sovereign states.
Contributions from major capitals project startups and ramp ups will be significant in 2016 and small movements in timing or the pace of ramp-ups can make a significant difference in annual production.
Uncertainty in exact timing and precise composition of asset divestments will be another variable because we are value-driven on all sales.
Finally current market conditions will create impacts related to PSC and other pricing-related entitlement effects.
Additionally low prices will restrict our overall spend levels which in turn will result in somewhat higher base decline rates.
Turning to slide 11 our reserve replacement in 2015 was 107%.
We saw significant adds in our shale and tight assets which reflects strong well performance results and new geologic data in these plays.
Additional volumes were booked based upon development drilling results at Wheatstone.
Strong base business performance resulted in positive reserve revisions including Tengiz Thailand Nigeria and the Gulf of Mexico.
Commodity price impact benefited entitlement volumes for profit sharing and variable royalty contracts.
Our five-year reserve replacement ratio is 113%.
Now let's talk about progress on our major capital projects starting with Gorgon.
Turning to slide 12 at Gorgon system commissioning from train 1 is in the final stages with key process units starting up a cooldown cargo delivered and system cooling under way.
The first LNG production is expected within the next few weeks with first cargo anticipated soon after that.
We'll be ramping up train 1 in the months ahead.
Gas for a train 1 startup will come from Io-Jansz wells.
These wells have been successfully flow tested and initial performance indications look good.
On trains 2 and 3 all modules have been delivered to site and construction is progressing.
Lessons learned from train 1 are being applied and key milestones are being achieved on schedule with startups expected at approximately six-month intervals after train 1.
Turning to Wheatstone on slide 13.
On the upstream portion of the project hookup and commissioning of the offshore platform is progressing.
The trunkline is ready for service and final tie-in work is ongoing.
Six of nine wells are drilled and completed offering sufficient well capacity for the first train.
At the plant site the operations center and LNG loading jetty are complete and tank hydro testing is ongoing.
As previously communicated initial module fabrication in Malaysia was delayed.
We were successful in mitigating further delays and all modules required for train 1 are now on site.
Piping and cabling work is ongoing.
The pace of this work will determine critical path towards first LNG which is expected to be mid-year 2017.
Train 2 module deliveries are underway and on track.
Turning to slide 15.
I've just run through the steps we've already taken to improve our financial results and to be responsive to current market conditions.
On the elements we control operating expenses capital outlays and project execution you can expect even more improvements in 2016.
However price remains a significant uncertainty.
I'll come back to that in just a minute.
What I would like to talk about is other projects that we have that are also contributing to our performance.
If you look at the chart on page 14 you'll see that we have significant progress on new projects.
We have the Lianzi and Moho Nord which came on in the fourth quarter.
Chuandongbei the first train on Chuandongbei has come online.
And here in January of 2016 we're seeing progress on Angola LNG as recommissioning is under way.
We expect to introduce gas to the plant later this quarter and have first LNG cargo in the second quarter.
Mafumeira Sul in Angola Bangka in Indonesia and Alder in the North Sea are also progressing towards expected startup later in the year.
I mentioned that price is a very significant uncertainty to us going forward.
If you look at slide 15 you'll see a chart that was put together by WoodMac.
This obviously represents a significant source of uncertainty in cash flows going forward.
Consistent with many of you we believe demand will continue to grow.
The larger wild card or uncertainty if you will is supply.
Non-OPEC liquids production which is shown on this chart remained much more resilient in 2015 than most predicted.
With the significant contraction in global investment caused by low prices the world would see supplies drop off.
WoodMac shows that occurring this year thereby pushing the oil market into better balance.
Until that balance occurs prices will continue to be constrained and the financial damage to the energy sector seen in 2015 will continue.
Relative to balance sheet strength and growing flexibility in our spend Chevron will be advantaged relative to the others in this industry as prices rebound.
We are well positioned to benefit when the market does balance and prices begin to rise because of the leverage that we have and our growing production profile.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
We're now ready to take some questions.
Keep in mind that we do have a full queue so please try to limit yourselves to one question and one follow-up if necessary.
We will do our best to get all of your questions answered.
So Jonathan please open the lines.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Phil Gresh from JPMorgan.
Your question please.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Phil.
Thanks for all the color today.
The dividend coverage priority is obviously key and very clear.
On the third quarter call you built us a bridge to cover the dividend with free cash flow by 2017 which looked fairly reasonable in the $50 or so environment and you highlight the flexibility for 2016 in the slide.
So I guess what I was wondering is looking out to 2017 if we're sub $50 how low can you realistically go with additional CapEx and OpEx cuts before you feel like you might need asset sales or the balance sheet to bridge the gap? Is there a level of CapEx you really don't want to go below? Well our flexibility continues to grow and Phil we're obviously working that number very closely.
The level of spend if we continue to see the kinds of prices that we're seeing now the cost of goods and services will continue to decline.
We've got the impact of foreign exchange rates et cetera.
The biggest change between what we'll spend this year and next year is really the ramp down from major capital projects.
So for example this year we'll be spending about $6 billion on LNG projects around the world.
Obviously finishing Angola LNG and then as we wind down Gorgon and have a little more to spend on Wheatstone we expect next year that spend will be under $2 billion.
So you gain $4 billion right there and then our flexibility grows as time goes by.
We obviously have to invest to keep our operations reliable.
We will still have some projects that are under construction and being completed and additional commitments in drilling off of platforms and things of that sort.
But I think our flexibility is significant.
We gave you a range of $20 billion to $24 billion but we're going to continue to drive that number down.
I guess my overall message is that we're going to continue to live within our means that we have.
And it obviously makes sense to finish the projects under construction.
We have a strong balance sheet.
And maybe I'll offer a couple of comments in that area because a lot of people ask.
I've given the priority is to pay and grow the dividend and in order to do that obviously you do have to invest in the business because we are a depleting resource business.
So those are always the first two priorities that we have consistent with good economics on the spending.
We've indicated that we're in a long-cycle business.
And in such a long-cycle business where you can have ups and downs in the commodity markets and you get started on long-cycle projects you need a strong balance sheet.
And so we have always advertised that and indicated that a AA rating was what we were looking for.
And that's really indicative of needing to have a strong balance sheet.
But the reason you keep a strong balance sheet is so you can withstand the ups and downs in the business and right now we're in the downs with prices low.
And so we'll use our balance sheet this year almost regardless of where prices are during the year and we're going to cut costs.
We're going to reduce spend where we can and that flexibility grows in time.
We work very closely with the rating agencies.
We've talked to the rating agencies.
They see our internal forecasts around our business.
They see more than you do in other words.
And so we'll be very clear where our priorities are and where the flexibility is.
And then they have to do their job.
But we think that we'll retain a very strong balance sheet and the ability to withstand these ups and downs.
Okay that's very helpful thanks.
And then just on the projects I appreciate all the updates there.
Maybe you could just let us know where you stand on the FID for Tengiz and given what you've been saying about the macro environment and how long it's going to last where does that stand today? Yeah well as you know Phil it's a good question.
Tengiz as you know has been a very good business for us in Kazakhstan.
We and our partners have had very good relationships there and we've had a lot of success financial and otherwise.
And the next phase of opportunity there is the wellhead pressure management project and the future growth project.
And we've been working this for some time.
And we consciously delayed FID when prices came down.
We consciously delayed FID so that we could get additional definition around the project get greater certainty around what the costs would be.
And frankly to drive costs down given the opportunity that is present given conditions in the industry and we've had some success with that.
But we're not at the point where we're ready to take FID today.
With low prices that we're seeing we're working closely with our partners to ensure that we have adequate funding for the project and to further take costs down.
We have been pacing investment.
We've been doing critical infrastructure work but we're still working this project to get it in condition for FID.
So I think you'll see us continue to pace investments and we'll keep you updated when we can.
We do think these projects are good.
We do think that they will go forward.
But we're continuing to work it to drive costs down and get alignment on financing.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Phil appreciate it.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Your question please.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys good morning.
Good morning Paul.
Good morning Paul.
Inc.</span></strong> John two questions if I may.
For 2016 you give a range of $25 billion at the low end and you indicate that given the market condition you'll most likely to go down to $25 billion.
If you really have to are there are any additional area that you would be willing to cut and drive it down further? And what that area and by how much or that this is really the minimum that you can go given the major project spending? The second question if I could is a quick one: We understand that you have one of the strongest balance sheets but the credit agencies are also becoming increasingly hostile to the energy sector and looks like they may have a sector downgrade anyway.
So what may be the minimum credit rating that is acceptable by the company? Okay.
Well in terms of flexibility when it comes to capital program we've given you that range for a good reason.
As I indicated we've got some committed spend that's likely to go forward regardless of the price environment and really it pertains to the big LNG projects and the projects that are under construction.
So we're going to continue to work spend down.
And there's always a little bit more flexibility.
There's the uncertainty of exchange rates and things of that sort.
But I don't want to flag a significant reduction below the range below the $26.6 billion that's in our budget and below the range that we've talked about because I don't want to shut in all rigs around the world for example.
There are obviously are things you could do that I don't think are the proper things to do given our expectations going forward.
For example we've done terrific work in the Permian Basin to get our costs down and we want to keep that momentum going.
So we have six operated rigs.
There are 14 non-operated rigs.
We want to continue that activity.
Our group has done a terrific job of getting costs down.
And obviously at $30 every business is stressed but we think that supplies are going to be needed and we want to continue the activity that we have there.
Need to continue to drive down costs but want to continue that activity.
So there's a little bit more room but I don't want to flag something outside the range.
Maybe I'll let  I offered some comments on sort of the philosophy but maybe I'll let Pat talk a little bit about interaction with the rating agencies and her view on what sort of minimum requirements might be.
Yeah so as John said the rating agencies need to do what the rating agencies need to do and they have conservative oil price scenarios out there and I think that's understandable.
If you were in their position you would be doing the same thing.
And I think it's perfectly reasonable to think Chevron along with everybody in the industry in this particular price environment would be up for review.
They've indicated that many of the companies are up for a review.
I'm certain that Chevron will be in that queue right after the first tiering goes through.
So if a downgrade does occur and I think they're moving in that direction but if that were to occur we would not be the only one that that would happen to.
I don't see it materially impacting our cost of funds or materially impacting our ability to secure financing.
And in terms of a minimum I guess I don't think of it that way.
We have a strong balance sheet even if there were to be a downgrade.
We have a very strong balance sheet amongst the strongest in the industry.
And we've already committed and said multiple times that we are going to get balanced.
We will live within our cash flows.
And I think that is the profile that we put forward to the rating agencies.
I'll just say you asked about flexibility on CapEx for 2016.
I don't want to suggest there isn't additional flexibility for 2017 and 2018 because there is particularly if lower prices persist.
But we've given you a range that reflects what we think today based on the forward look.
Obviously if conditions remain where they are today we'll review those numbers just as we would all our other operating statistics.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Paul.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gammel from Jefferies.
Your question please.
Thank you and hi everyone.
I just wanted to ask about as you're reviewing potential capital expenditure reductions how the deepwater program actually fits into this discussion.
Because I note a string of successes in both exploration and appraisal that's occurring in the deepwater right now.
So how do you think about that drilling program? And then secondly within the deepwater how do you see that competing over the medium term? Do you still see that as being within the cost curve based upon your own projections of where oil prices could go? Yeah Jason it's a great question and it's one of the areas that I think we and others in the industry are looking at very closely.
And I guess if I can take just a second to sort of to back up a little bit.
If you look at the macro environment on where supplies are going to come from to meet any demand estimate that might be out there the world's going to need deepwater oil.
It is a significant resource and over time those barrels are going to be needed.
Now right now the costs in the deepwater haven't come down quite as fast as they have onshore.
We obviously have seen some rig rate reductions but in general as we get to deeper and deeper water some projects are challenged.
We have mentioned last year in our analyst meeting that we felt it would take larger accumulations to make some of these deepwater projects successful so the precise numbers are being worked.
But you're going to need bigger accumulations and larger hubs in order to justify the infrastructure.
And then tiebacks similarly will need somewhat higher prices.
We have some special charges in the fourth quarter and $0.5 billion was writing off Buckskin and Moccasin.
And that's a project that we thought would go forward.
First we thought it might have the potential to be a hub and then we thought it had the potential to be a tieback.
And I won't say that that project couldn't have gone forward and that it wouldn't meet minimum thresholds depending upon your forward view of prices.
But relative to our alternatives we felt that for the foreseeable future we've got better places to put our money.
And so we made the very difficult decision to not go forward with that project.
And so the clock was ticking where it was going to require a couple billion dollars of investments over the next few years.
And we just felt over the next few years we're going to have better places to put our money notably the Permian.
So there are tough choices being made.
Now we have a good position in the deepwater.
We've been as successful as anyone there.
And we have been successful in driving costs down.
We've seen I mean really unbelievable progress last year.
We had a 30% reduction in days per 10 000 feet in 2015 versus 2014.
So our experience in the lower tertiary in particular we're getting better and better at understanding it and driving costs down.
We're encouraged by what we've got at Anchor.
We've got some appraisal work that's undergoing there.
We've got another potential hub development with a group of fields that we had put together with a couple of partners in the industry to try to create a hub class development.
But this is a work in progress for us to make sure we can have a resource cost balance to make these projects attractive to meet our thresholds.
I'm confident we'll be able to do that.
It's just we were pushed with Buckskin and Moccasin and you're seeing others make similar choices if it doesn't quite fit relative to their alternatives.
Appreciate those thoughts John.
If I could ask a real quick follow-up.
The $1.1 billion write-down that you had in the upstream are you able to provide any split between exploration and depreciation on that? Why don't I let Pat give you a little bit of color on some of those.
Because you're right it's important to know which.
It does hit multiple lines on the income statement and you saw that those numbers were up a little bit.
Yeah so I would just say for the full year if you look at the income statement the X the special items that are categorized under exploration expense would be about $1.1 billion.
And if you look at the full year for DD&amp;A off the income statement the special items amount to about $3.5 billion.
That's great.
Thanks very much folks.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Your question please.
Good morning.
I think you're going to get 17 different questions on the same theme but just you talked about $20 billion $24 billion of CapEx in 2017 and 2018 and I think on the last call you mentioned sort of a slower rate of growth 1% to 1.5%.
Obviously that rate of growth would also help project execution and hopefully costs will come down.
If you were to go down to a lower number of terminal sort of CapEx for a period maybe just talk a bit about the growth implications beyond 2017.
How would it affect the growth rate? And then I have a follow-on.
Yeah I'm not sure I'll be answer to that fully here.
I think we'll probably give you we will give you a more complete answer when we get to March where we have a chance to run through it.
But I would just say if you look at growth not just through 2017 but through 2018 we feel pretty good about it.
And that's largely a function of the projects we have in flight.
In 2018 you'll have a full year of production obviously from our big LNG projects which you won't have in 2017.
We also have other projects that remain under construction now that will come on during that period projects like Hebron in Canada and Big Foot and others that will come on in that window.
So we'll have continuing momentum from those projects and we'll be ramping up our shale activity during that period notably in the Permian.
So I think the profile will be attractive beyond 2017.
Now ultimately the cumulative effect of the reductions in capital if they persist at a low level will be felt.
But I think we'll have a little more resilience than people think.
Now that's other things being equal depending upon where prices are depending upon asset sales and things of that sort.
But in terms of what sort of spend do you need to sustain production indefinitely that would be a function of a lot of things notably the cost environment that we see.
I do think that our position in the Permian gives us a little bit of an advantage over others during this period because you've seen some of the numbers we've given you previously.
We have the capability to ramp that up and mitigate some of the declines.
So even if we see a slight increase in our base decline which has been tracking at under 2% even if that goes up a little bit we should be able to substantially mitigate a lot of that through the activity that we have in the shale.
But we'll try to give you a little longer-term outlook in our upcoming meeting in March if that's okay.
And then the follow-on is on the OpEx and SG&amp;A part of that reduction of 13% to 18% from $61 billion down to a lower number.
I mean obviously the market helps give you some OpEx and then there's some structural changes that you've made some difficult decisions.
I mean should we think that there's another big structural shift that you can make to maybe even outpace the market in terms of OpEx and SG&amp;A reductions say into 2017? Well we're working really hard and we're pulling all levers.
Obviously though the cost in goods and services in our procurement group is having a fair degree of success.
I will say we've had more success in the US than internationally number one.
And so we'll continue to drive that hard.
That's just a function of contracts and the competitive environment overseas.
So one we'll be working that very hard.
We'll be working additional efficiencies.
Just as an example we still have reorganizations in flight.
So our employee count was down about 3 200 between the end of 2014 to the end of 2015.
There are another 4 000 coming this year and a lot of that work is ongoing right now.
So we're being careful.
We're pretty thoughtful about the way we do this sort of work to make sure that we keep the right people in our organization for the longer term.
But the reality is activity is likely to be lower and we do have a number of projects that we'll be ramping down.
Now we're going to work to be fair about how we do that so that we keep a lot of the great talent that we have that's been working around the world.
But there's no question we're looking at organizations and have a number of reorganizations in flight.
So our desire is to keep moving that.
Now I will say on a dollar basis when you're growing production and bringing on new assets you have operating expense that you will incur.
That's why we gave you the unit OpEx number.
But we drove that one down.
There's still some final allocations for what goes in the 10-K in the oil and gas disclosure but it's down over $2 per barrel and I think that general trend we're going to continue to drive that number down.
Remember in our OpEx 40% of our OpEx is downstream.
And our downstream had record performance this year and as you know they've had restructuring under way for some time.
And it's not that they're immune from some of the efforts we have to reduce costs but I don't think you'll see a structural shift in our downstream costs.
The corporate center we've obviously looked at and made some significant changes.
A lot of people left the payroll in December and so those benefits will be felt and the ongoing work that I've described in the upstream.
So my message is we're driving it hard but we're trying to be thoughtful so that we keep the talent we need for the long haul in the organization.
Makes sense thank you.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Ed.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line from Doug Terreson from Evercore ISI Group.
Your question please.
I wanted to get some clarity on the 0% to 4% growth projection and the point that John made a few minutes ago about higher decline rates.
And specifically is it reasonable to assume that we're going to have growth this year from the United States Africa and Australia and declines elsewhere? Is that the accurate way to think about it? Africa Australia and the United States.
Yeah.
I think that is a pretty good way to look at it.
We tend to look at it by project.
But we do have obviously the shale and tight that's growing and ongoing ramp up in the deepwater.
Obviously the projects in Australia and then Angola and volume from Angola LNG.
So I think that's a pretty good characterization of it yes.
Okay.
Okay.
And then also John on the neutral zone there's been some more commentary on progress and so my question is is the project real to your knowledge? And if it is if we are seeing progress underway what period of time could those fields return to full production if in fact there was movement meaning is this something we should think about in terms of weeks or months or quarters? So just an update there would be appreciated.
I'm sorry I missed the first part of it which location? Yeah John on the neutral zone there's been some commentary.
Sorry.
Yeah in the Partitioned Zone look I gave you guys a long explanation last quarter.
The fields they're still shut in and there have been ongoing dialogue between the Saudis and the Kuwaitis.
And as I described before there's plenty of incentive to bring those fields back online and I probably have to leave it there.
Okay.
What I'll tell you implicit in our assumption is about is a mid-year startup.
The middle of that range includes a mid-year startup but remember 2014 production was about 80 000 barrels a day.
When you start up mid year you don't start up at 80 000 you start out at something lower than that because the facilities have been mothballed and preserved for a period of time.
So that's what's reflected.
To the extent that agreement is reached and there have been discussions to the extent agreement is reached and it's started up sooner it'll be to the higher end of that range and to the extent that it continues the bottom of the range is zero if they don't start up at all this year.
Okay fair enough John.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your question please.
Thanks good morning everybody.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Good morning Doug.
John I know I've kind of tried this one before but in light of the further collapse in oil prices I wanted to ask again about growth versus growth per share.
And what's really behind my question is whether investing in a highly uncertain environment in what I'm guessing are potentially sub-economic assets is it an argument just for outright deferral and outright declines that can be picked up again through share buybacks if indeed oil prices did recover absent any major capital commitments? I'm just wondering philosophically how you think about that given the potential risk to your credit rating that we stand right now.
No Doug actually I think it's a fair question.
I mean the message I've been trying to convey is that we are dramatically cutting investment going forward.
We all have to make estimates of what oil and gas prices will be going forward but in terms of longer-cycle projects we aren't initiating any.
As I've described we've got some momentum in the system from projects under construction but we are you are going to see us preferentially favor short-cycle investments.
And if they don't meet our hurdles we won't invest.
Taken to the extreme we're not just going to invest to hold volume.
We're going to invest where we think we can get good returns.
And so we've repurchased shares in the past and we'll do that again.
We won't fund opportunities that we don't think will be effective for the company.
And you and I can both put some hindsight on some of the things that we and others in the industry have put money in right now but we're tightly scrutinizing what we're spending right now.
And I hope I can make that really clear to you.
I mean that's indicative of the kinds of choices we made with Buckskin Moccasin.
It's indicative of the kind of changes we've made with a big development in the North Sea.
That's the direction that we're going again trying to balance our expectations for the forward curve.
I appreciate your answer John.
I know it's not fun for anyone right now.
My follow-up is really I don't know who wants to take this but it's on the asset sales.
There seems to be everybody and their grandmother seems to be looking to sell assets right now.
I'm just wondering if you could characterize how you see the depth of the market and whether or not you think you can still execute on that program.
And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Yeah no that's a real good question.
In fact I think your point is spot-on.
I think it's a terrible market to be trying to sell most assets out there particularly obviously oil-related assets.
And that's why I've been pretty circumspect around asset sales.
We sold $11 billion over the last two years but we're giving you a $5 billion to $10 billion for the next two years in the numbers that I've given you.
And from a strategic point of view there's some opportunities out there that I think will be tough to execute.
And if we can't execute them we won't sell them.
If you look at the kinds of things we have sold we've gotten very good value.
So for example over the last two years there was a lot of strength in the infrastructure market selling pipelines for example.
And on strategy grounds and on valuation grounds we felt that we were going to limit our investments in the pipeline business to those that are critical to our upstream and downstream sector and we can sell those.
Things like Caltex Australia we thought values were very strong and assets had  we'd been very well aligned with them but they were heading off potentially in a growth direction.
And we felt that from our strategic point of view that it'd be best to exit when we did.
So we've been very careful.
And I can tell you the assets going forward we don't advertise them but if you look at the ones where there's information in the public domain I think you'll see that those are assets where there are potential buyers out there at good value.
So I think your admonition is a very good one and it's why we haven't put big numbers out there.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Your question please.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Good morning Evan.
Hey John you answered the Tengiz question before yet are there any FIDs that are currently baked into 2016 and your 2017 to 2018 budget ranges? And I guess as it relates to CapEx I mean how much flexibility is there to open or reprice contracts within projects post-FID? It appears to be there's more flexibility than at least what we had perceived? Yeah it's a good question.
Obviously for any project we had in flight we went back to all the project teams and created an expectation that they will look to try to capture cost reductions.
In some cases where you've bid contracts and the terms and conditions are fixed you are where you are.
But on anything where you have not taken FID you have some flexibility to go back to the providers of those services.
And that's why we've delayed our costs.
I mean part of the recycle of the projects is to see if there's a different development scheme and things like that.
For example Rosebank has a different development scheme.
But part of it is also to be sure you can capture the cost reductions that are available that might be available in the marketplace.
And sometimes you have to just say we're not going to do this if we don't get better costs and that tends to focus partners and others.
So we expect to see declining breakevens as a result of those initiatives both to reframe projects in some cases or to try to drive costs out.
In terms of what we've got actually planned most of the effort most of the things that we would call FIDs are really things like infill drilling.
So for example the next phase of drilling at Agbami the next phase of drilling at Jack/St.
Malo which are utilizing existing rigs and drilling off of existing to support existing infrastructure.
In terms of big new greenfield projects it's relatively few.
There are some that could be in the budget but it's going to depend on that price/cost balance I've been talking about.
And that's why I say we have significant flexibility going forward as we complete things like Gorgon Wheatstone Mafumeira Sul Angola LNG and others.
Great so it sounds like they're not currently in the budget.
Let me just add a follow-up question or a smaller item.
Are the startup volumes at Gorgon are they at spot or contract pricing and can you give us any color or update on the spot LNG market and whether you see an ability to term up any incremental uncontracted Gorgon volumes? And I'll leave it at that.
Yeah in general the sales will be under contract.
In fact you've probably seen recently we have signed a couple of additional HOAs.
We said all along that we thought that it's appropriate to have about 85% under long-term contract for Gorgon and Wheatstone.
And with those HOAs assuming those turn into SBAs we'll be over 80%.
So we feel pretty good about that.
And those are medium-term type contracts that we've put in place.
So we feel good about it.
But during the ramp up we've got contracts that are available for these volumes.
Now as far as the overall LNG market it's lousy.
When you look at spot cargos and prices and I expect we're going to go through a challenging as an industry we're going to go through a challenging period for any volumes that will be sold spot into the marketplace.
Appreciate it.
Thanks Evan.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Your question please.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Question maybe you've talked kind of indirectly a bit about your view towards the short cycle on the US onshore in the near term and I appreciate some of that color.
But can you talk about trends and activity levels and volumes in particularly in the Permian? And I guess just in a broader sense how you look to manage the short cycle spend over the near to medium term.
I mean it sounds like it's clearly taking preference over long-cycle spend but what's dictating the difference between spending $3 billion or $2 billion or $1.5 billion and so on? How do you manage that over the medium term? Yeah it's a fair question.
I mean the short answer is there's some judgment that we're applying.
We have been on a pathway in the Permian of first assessing what we have.
So we've been drilling both vertical and horizontal wells.
Over the last year we've really converted our entire program to horizontal wells and really getting an overused term but getting our factory model in place.
And we've done that.
And our costs are now very competitive with some of the best in the business.
So that is taking place and we want to continue that effort.
Our view is not that prices are going to stay at the low range they are today.
But part of living within your means is limiting just how many rigs you deploy.
We've got six operated rigs today.
We got 14 in our JV rigs that are operating today and we think that's about the right balance.
We have flexibility to move up.
And what I've told our people if they stay on the cost trajectory that they are we're going to look to fund them.
The economics in some of the best areas at strip type prices work.
They're not as good as we'd like at higher prices but they work.
And so that obviously is guiding us but I would hate to lose the momentum that we have in the Permian with some of the cost reduction efforts we have under way.
We've told you we got 3 000 locations that we think meet economic threshold at $50.
So obviously prices aren't $50 today but it's indicative of the strength of the portfolio that we have.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I appreciate that.
And then maybe just one kind of step-back question.
We spend a lot of time these days talking about how rough everything is and all the costs that are having to be cut.
But maybe if you tick around and just look at the other side can you address any positives or opportunities that you're seeing? I mean a resetting of the cost structure is clearly one but anything that you're seeing emerge as you look towards your position in your business for the next cycle some of the positive things whether it's resource capture or fiscal terms or any other opportunities that are kind of a silver lining of what we're seeing right now? Well thank you for a silver lining question.
We're looking for those internally too.
You're right it is very tough times.
A couple thoughts that I'll give you.
One I think the cost reductions we're going after most of them will be permanent.
For example the efficiencies that we've gained in our drilling those are permanent regardless of what happens to rig rates going forward so whether it's a deepwater that I talked about earlier or onshore.
So that's number one.
Number two I think the benefits that we're taking on in some of our organizations and some of our structures I think a lot of that will be permanent and I think we've undervalued what simplicity in org structures can provide.
So obviously we're taking out some layers.
We've got rolling reorganizations that are being implemented around the world and I think that simplicity and clarity will be a positive for the business.
In terms of resource capture there are better opportunities today than there might have been a year ago.
And the balance between what I'll say the expectations and value of resources getting better aligned.
So there are opportunities emerging.
I mean our priority is obviously the things I've been talking about this morning.
But we are in a resource business and you do want to be attentive to the opportunities that are out there.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Ryan.
Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs.
Your question please.
Hey good morning.
Good morning.
John you made the comment that non-OPEC supply has been relatively resilient over the course of the year.
You also made the point that the base decline rates was less than 2% in your portfolio over the course of this year.
How does that compare relative to history? And as you look at 2016 how do you think your base decline rate looks like towards the midpoint of guidance? In general I mean the two are somewhat related.
Our base decline has been good because we've operated very reliably and we've actually gotten quite efficient in our business.
So we have been able to mitigate the declines.
We've also flagged though that with the lower level of spending on base business infill drilling in places like Bakersfield and elsewhere you are going to see declines slightly higher.
And so that's why we've suggested that and we do expect to see that across the industry.
The history has shown during downturns like this you can see an increase of 1% or 2% industry-wide in that base decline so that is I think that's clear.
In terms of the resiliency that we've seen in production it's partly related to that.
But to me it's been if you look at 2015 the impact of projects that were in flight has probably been more than we as an industry anticipated.
So we're not the only ones with Jack/St.
Malos and Bibiyanas and other projects that are under construction that are coming up.
Secondly of course you've had the impact of hedges in the unconventional business and the brief uptick that took place in the middle of 2015 in prices did allow some additional hedges.
So you've still got a few hedges that are out there in the industry in 2016 that will allow some level of activity.
But increasingly all that's wearing off as all the projects come online as base business declines start to take over and as hedges are no longer available.
And so I think that's why you're seeing those volumes.
The other piece that I've consistently said has been underrepresented is the stress around the world the stress on host governments the stress on those government partners national oil companies and others.
And you've seen announcements that have been made because while we tend to think of living within our means as a function of forward capital spend for host governments living within their means is social the choice between social spending and reinvesting in the business.
And you've seen some of those choices play out in the guidance that's been given by host governments to national oil companies in certain countries.
So I think the cumulative weight of all this action will tend to bring things into balance.
You still have potential sources of supply out there.
Obviously Iran is bringing volumes on but I think the trend is inexorable.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Neil.
Thanks Frank.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Your question please.
Hi good morning everybody.
John you've part answered this question.
My original question was going back to the volumes.
It looks like quite a big percentage range but in barrels a day it's only about 100 000 barrels a day for 2016 that's to say the 0% to 4% range of uncertainty.
You part answered the question because you addressed the partitioned neutral zone.
Can you talk a bit about the variances in the other elements so how much volume potentially variances there in the startups the divestments the price effects and the spend levels? Because it feels like that 100 000 variance actually is not that wide.
It seems big in percentage but not so much volume.
Thanks.
Yeah that's a very good observation.
The range is wide.
And you've got multiple moving parts in the business.
Let me see if I can give you a little bit of color.
Thanks.
Just if you look at the difference between $30 and $60 per barrel just on price effects it can be over 100 000 barrels a day for that alone.
And so you're right there is a range there.
And what happens in a place like Indonesia for example for a given level of spend and you have cost barrel reimbursement the lower the price the more barrels you get.
And these curves aren't all linear in different locations around the world so there is considerable variability from price alone.
If you think about ramp-up of production I'll give you an example on Gorgon.
Gorgon the three trains at Gorgon our share is a little over 200 000 barrels a day.
So if you think about each train is 65 000 to 70 000 barrels a day and we've said that we expect production to commence within a few weeks.
There's an industry curve.
There are industry averages around ramp-up schedule that takes place over a period of months.
To the extent you're at the high end of that range where you have a smooth startup we have the well capacity so you could have a very rapid ramp-up.
Our people in Australia don't know what they don't know and so we have taken more of an average approach.
And to the extent you encounter something unusual you can be on the downside of that.
Our people in Angola LNG at this point are pretty gun shy because we've had challenges but that's 60 000 barrels a day.
And we've said that we expect to be introducing gas later this quarter and to have cargos in the second quarter but there's variability around that in the ramp-up.
And so all of those  and by the way there's a second train at Gorgon as well later this year.
So all of those can impact the pace of development.
And then there's just the outright spend that's a function of rigs and activity.
I think it's fair to say that if we keep seeing prices in the low $30s we're going to drop rigs as the price moves on.
And the last piece and it's one that I won't provide much in the way of specifics is really divestments.
Because we've indicated for example that our shallow water our shelf activities that we have packages for sale out there and those have some volumes attached to them.
And then there's some other potential assets in the upstream that are under consideration but it really depends on getting value and the timing of those.
And so that is why you get a range.
And you are correct the range can be broader than indicated there.
But I felt if I gave you any broader range you'd say this wasn't very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alistair Syme from Citi.
Your question please.
Thanks very much.
John can I just come back to your comment on the divestment market.
You said it's a terrible market for selling assets therefore I guess it must be a great market for buying.
Appreciate the balance sheet constraints but what leads you away from temptation? What leads me away from temptation.
Well just I know you've heard me over the years but if I just to ground everyone that's on the phone we've said over many years that we're in the resource business.
It's declining and we'll replace resource through a combination of exploration discovered resource participation and acquisitions.
And Chevron has done that over time.
Our growth position has been pretty good and so M&amp;A hasn't been a particular priority for us.
But we are mindful of the opportunities that are out there.
I wouldn't want you to think our focus is anything other than getting the projects we have under construction and completing the work we have and ramping up the assets that we have because I think we've got a pretty nice business profile going forward.
But we do need to look at what is out there and we're going to be value driven.
But there are opportunities that could present themselves in the current market.
So we'll be mindful of that.
But remember we're trying to grow the dividend and invest for the long term here and so we're not driven we're not particularly transaction driven in any period of time.
I have time for one more question.
Certainly.
Our final question comes from the line of Asit Sen from CSLA.
Your question please.
Thanks good morning.
A quick one on shale if I may and tight oil.
On slide 23 of the presentation the year-over-year production bridge shale and tight oil is shown as an impressive 44 000 barrels a day in 2015.
What was the split between Permian and Vaca Muerta? And also can we get a full year 2015 shale and tight oil production for Chevron? The increase of that 44 000 about two-thirds of it was Permian Wolfcamp and the rest of it was between Argentina and some of our Appalachia activity.
And in terms of what's forward looking I think I'm going to leave that to the security analyst meeting that we've coming up in March where we'll give you a little deeper insight into our work in the Permian and kind of the range of ramp-up that we can see there.
And we've done that every year and we'll update you this year based on both the cost improvements that we've seen and then realities of the price market that we're in.
Okay.
Thanks John and since we have you one macro question on Iran.
And you already talked an Iran ramp-up.
And are you involved in any discussion that's been mentioned by your European peers? Well I'll answer the second question first no.
We're not able to do that so we don't.
I would just say that we've got our hands pretty well full.
We always look at opportunities when it's legal for us to do so around the world but I don't have any particular insight into Iran.
You've seen the range of speculation around their ability to ramp up production.
Some have speculated that it's going to be a little harder than advertised but I don't have any particular insight to offer you.
And perhaps others can help you with that.
Okay I would like to thank all of you for being on the call today.
We appreciate your interest in our company and your participation.
We look forward to seeing you at our March meeting in New York.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes Chevron's fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference.