Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Curtiss-Wright First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Martin Benante.
Please go ahead.
Well thank you Kate.
And good morning everyone.
Welcome to our First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our President and Chief Operating Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Curtiss-Wright delivered a strong first quarter performance.
We exceeded our initial guidance generating $0.44 in diluted earnings per share primarily based on operational improvements and better-than-expected results from our new acquisitions.
If you excluded dilution from recent acquisitions pro forma diluted earnings per share would have been $0.50 per diluted share or nearly 20% increase over last year.
Overall sales and operating income results were solid with organic operating income growing 7% on flat organic sales producing 40 basis points in operating margin improvements year-over-year.
These results reflect the benefits from our recently implemented restructuring and operational improvements -- our previously implemented -- I'm sorry restructuring and operational improvement initiatives.
I look forward to continued improvements in operational efficiency that will drive further strong performance this year.
I'll now call -- turn the call over to Glenn.
Thank you Marty.
Our call today is being webcast.
And the press release as well as a copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties and we detail those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company's website.
For our agenda today I will provide you with an overview of Curtiss-Wright's first quarter 2013 performance and financial outlook followed by Dave who will provide an update on our recent acquisitions before turning it back to Marty who will discuss our strategic outlook and then open the call for questions.
I want to begin by providing some additional color on our first quarter operating performance.
While acquisitions were the primary driver behind improved sales growth in the quarter they also created approximately 110 basis points in margin dilutions related primarily with the purchase accounting specifically increased amortization levels and inventory step-up that we typically experienced during the first few months of ownership.
Excluding the recent acquisitions we experienced operating margin growth in all 3 segments compared to the prior year as follows: Flow Control was up 190 basis points year-over-year primarily based on improved profitability in power generation based on increased sales volumes tied to products and services for existing operating reactors.
Controls increased 40 basis points primarily due to the benefits of previously implemented cost-reduction initiatives within the defense business.
And finally Surface Technologies was up 200 basis points based on higher sales volumes and improved absorption of fixed costs as well as the benefits from their 2012 restructuring.
We would expect the margin dilution from acquisitions to be less of a factor in future quarters.
In addition first quarter new orders increased 20% based on a combination of acquisitions as well as organic orders growth in our Controls business.
Book-to-bill exceeded 1x overall in the quarter.
And if you exclude the recent acquisitions our book-to-bill would have been slightly higher.
Moving to our end markets.
Our first quarter sales in defense decreased 8% overall primarily due to the timing of production on several naval defense platforms as well as the winding-down of productions on several programs within the aerospace defense market.
The aerospace and naval defense markets decreased 10% and 7% respectively during the first quarter which more than offset a 4% increase in ground defense.
Despite the first quarter reduction in naval defense sales which was due primarily to timing on the Virginia Class submarine program we continue to expect higher sales in this end market in 2013.
This growth will be supported by the ramp-up on the CVN-79 aircraft carrier program and also it's based on received and anticipated new naval defense orders that Marty will address in a few minutes.
Overall we continue to project defense-related sales to be flat to down 4% for 2013.
Note that we are not including any potential specific impact for sequestration in our 2013 guidance at this time.
Our next earnings call we hope to have additional clarity on the specific sequestration-related budget cuts and any resulting impacts on our defense business if any.
Next I'll move on to our commercial end markets which collectively grew 34% during the first quarter based on strong contributions from our recent acquisitions and solid organic growth in the commercial aerospace and power generation markets.
Within our energy markets our aftermarket businesses continues to perform well.
This was most evident in the power generation market in support of existing operating reactors where we experienced solid demand for our obsolescence solutions as we continue to expand our installed base and also for spent fuel management solutions.
In addition we experienced higher AP1000 program revenues as the ramp-up on the domestic program more than offsets the winding-down on the China program.
In the oil and gas market we expect the solid first quarter momentum to continue throughout 2013 based on our acquisitions as well as improved U.S.
refinery-related MRO demand supporting ongoing maintenance needs.
Elsewhere in commercial aerospace we continue to expect that the OEM cycle will remain healthy for several more years with Curtiss-Wright benefiting from continuous production rate increases across numerous Boeing and Airbus platforms and increased support from our emerging operations facility supporting the Boeing 787 program.
Furthermore regarding the 787 program we have not seen any deceleration in our production activity as a result of the recent fleet grounding as first quarter 2013 deliveries were up solidly and as expected.
And finally building on the solid first quarter performance our recent acquisitions of Williams PG Drives and Exlar will bring expanded growth to both existing and new customers within the general industrial market.
This includes solid demand for various industrial sensors controls drives and actuation equipment supplied to electric-powered industrial medical specialty and off-road vehicles.
In summary our overall guidance within our commercial markets remains unchanged as we're expecting growth of 30% to 34% in 2013.
You can find the complete table of our guidance by end market in the appendix as well as in the earnings press release.
Moving on to our financial outlook I wanted to briefly review a few items.
Full year sales growth of 18% to 20% reflects our expectations for solid growth across all 3 segments and it's primarily based on the contribution from our recent acquisitions.
While we expect these acquisitions to positively contribute to operating income this year they will be dilutive to operating margins in 2013 as expected.
Consequently we are expecting flat organic sales growth.
However we anticipate our base businesses will generate healthy margin expansion as we realize the benefits from previous restructuring and operational excellence initiatives.
This gives us confidence in achieving solid overall margin expansion in 2013.
As for our EPS guidance we continue to expect approximately 60% of our full year EPS to occur in the second half of the year with the fourth quarter being the largest as we have generated historically.
And lastly some additional financial guidance metrics for 2013.
Since our last call we completed a new $500 million private placement note offering taking advantage of low-interest-rate environments to secure an attractive average interest rate below 4%.
As a result our interest expense guidance reflects this recent debt issuance which also temporary increases our net debt-to-capital ratio to nearly 40%.
We expect this ratio to decrease throughout the year to a more normalized ratio in the low 30% range as we repay some of the outstanding debt.
Lastly we have a $125 million higher-interest-rate note that will be paid off in September.
Overall we remain pleased with our balanced capital structure as it enables us to continue to expand our operations and actively pursue strategic acquisitions.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave to provide some updates on our recent acquisitions.
Dave? Thanks Glenn.
As you're aware our 7 recent acquisitions have provided us with an ample opportunity to continue to grow our business by further expanding our product offerings into adjacent markets and geographies and adding tremendous market depth.
I wanted to take a few minutes to provide you with an update on our integration status for each acquisition including completed tasks and some near-term opportunities.
In the Controls segment our recent acquisitions have considerably increased our addressable market for industrial sensors and controls to complement our existing aerospace sensors and controls business.
I'll begin with Williams Controls which develops advanced sensor and controls products and systems for specialty and off-road vehicles.
As the only public company that we acquired in 2012 we secured immediate cost savings of $2.5 million by eliminating their public company costs and integrating their sales and marketing teams within Curtiss-Wright.
Another key step was the consolidation of our existing aerospace sensors business in China into Williams' state-of-the-art manufacturing facility.
We are expecting Williams' 2013 sales to grow approximately 15% year-over-year led by increasing on-road truck volumes and improving off-road equipment sales well above industry average due to their unique technical capabilities.
Looking ahead we are focused on the integration of Williams' product lines with our existing offering and we will continue to look for ways to build Curtiss-Wright's offering of industrial off-highway sales which also applies to PG Drives.
We also intend to expand our industrial presence in India using Williams' Pune facility as a base to drive future sales to a new region for Curtiss-Wright.
This will further increase the worldwide penetration of our sensors and electronic product [ph] controls.
PG Drives is a leader in highly engineered electronic controllers and drives for advanced electric-powered industrial and medical vehicles.
Thus far we have consolidated one of PG Drives' U.S.
sales facilities into one of our existing facilities and completed the integration of our U.S.
and U.K.
industrial sales and marketing teams.
We will look to build on these measures with further facility consolidations and additional integration and leverage Curtiss-Wright's supply chain management in the near future.
We expect PG Drives to generate about 10% annual sales growth in 2013.
The business has experienced solid growth in the medical mobility market despite ongoing Medicare-related issues as well as improved industrial market sales as we are winning share from competitors producing solid sequential quarterly growth in the first quarter of 2013 in excess of the market.
At this time both Williams and PG Drives are on plan to meet 2013 targets.
Let's move on to Exlar which expanded our existing controls and actuation offering.
The business provides industry-leading electromechanical actuation products designed to replace hydraulic and air product -- air-powered cylinders in electric industrial mechanical as well as defense equipment.
Thus far integration has focused on lowering Exlar's cost base increasing their competitiveness and expanding their distribution network.
As a result we have introduced Controls' industrial sales and marketing teams to Exlar's wide array of products to further increase end-market penetration and future expansion of their customer base by leveraging both Controls' and Flow Controls' global exposure.
Although a small portion of sales are currently attributed to defense Exlar's actuation products meet the defense industry's desire for increased energy efficiency more environmentally friendly technology and most importantly increased survivability.
More to come on this as we continue to grow Exlar's defense business.
Overall we expect Exlar to generate nearly 10% annual sales growth in 2013.
And so far the acquisition is tracking in line with plan.
Next to our Surface Technologies segment and an update on Gartner.
This acquisition greatly strengthened our position within the highly engineered thermal spray coatings market as we added new technologies in new markets serving new geographic areas and customers.
Aside from focusing on various cost-reduction initiatives we have completed the evaluation and planning stage to open a new satellite coatings facility in Houston Texas to cover pipes pump motors and other processing equipment serving Gartner's oil and gas customers its largest end market.
Looking ahead we expect to leverage the significant cross synergies between Gartner and our existing thermal spray businesses.
This includes increased penetration within the energy end markets we serve the ability for technology transfer and insertion across existing facilities and the potential to integrate existing Curtiss-Wright coating technologies into Gartner facilities for increased pursuit of aftermarket applications.
Gartner is presently tracking in-line to slightly above plan with year-over-year sales growth of approximately 8%.
Next within our Flow Control segment to AP Services whose fluid sealing solutions further expanded our product breadth and enhanced our presence as a key supplier of aftermarket power generation services.
Thus far we have fully integrated AP Services into Flow Controls' supply chain and completed the training of the AP Services sales team to represent an existing Midwest Flow Control business that previously had no direct sales force.
As is typical with similar niche nuclear aftermarket acquisitions we expect to fully integrate AP Services' product line into Curtiss-Wright's market-leading global distribution network.
AP Services is currently tracking in line with plan.
Midway through the quarter we completed the acquisition of the Phönix Group which manufactures high-performance severe service valves and valve systems.
Although it has only been about 2 months integration continues to progress nicely.
There are significant opportunities for global expansion and cross-selling in our energy and industrial markets as Phönix provides an entrée for our products in the key geographies in Europe and Asia while we can provide Phönix access to Curtiss Wright's existing North American customers.
We also are evaluating several product line synergies in the oil and gas and power generation markets.
We expect to have expanded details on the integration of Phönix on our next call.
Next on the Cimarron which brings a solid reputation as a leading provider of production processing and separation solutions to the upstream oil and gas market.
We've been working through various functional integrations and focusing on initial operational improvements within Cimarron's business.
Thus far Cimarron is tracking in line with plan with 2013 revenue expected to grow approximately 14%.
One of the key integration initiatives that is already underway is in our oil and gas business.
Due to Cimarron's industry-leading technical capabilities and products serving the upstream oil and gas market they would have to make significant investments in plant capacity in order to meet the rapidly growing demand.
On the other hand Curtiss-Wright has the capabilities and capacity to support their growth without further investment at our Cedar Crossing Texas vessels facility.
Our existing facility has significant crane capability and available space that can be utilized to service Cimarron's overcapacity requirements.
This also allows us to make larger systems which opens up a high-end segment that Cimarron was previously unable to access.
This is clearly a win-win situation for Curtiss-Wright as it also enables us to increase capacity utilization and offset some of the overhead under-absorption that we've been experiencing as a result of downstream-refining market weakness.
Furthermore while we experience a learning curve in 2013 as we transition production to Texas we believe this integration initiative has the potential to generate additional sales for Cimarron and Curtiss-Wright in excess of $40 million beginning as early as 2014 which would also substantially improve Flow Controls' profitability.
This is a significant step for Curtiss-Wright as we continue to broaden our upstream product offering and stabilize our oil and gas business over the long run.
In addition Cimarron is in a solid position to grow its emission control devices business.
Following new Environmental Protection Agency rules governing the destruction of harmful vapors established in 2012 4 of Cimarron's 5 emission control device designs passed the EPA-mandated test during the first quarter of 2013.
Cimarron has one additional device that is currently being tested.
Once testing is complete on the final device Cimarron will become the first fabricator to have its devices certified to meet the new EPA standard.
Finally I wanted to revisit the pro forma 2013 market breakdown that we provided on the previous call which as you can see displays a very diversified and balanced portfolio that is more equally weighted across our defense energy and commercial industrial markets.
During the first quarter defense sales represented about 29% of our total sales down from 38% of sales in the prior year period.
We are already experiencing the transition to a more diversified end-market portfolio as well as improved profitability as we shift to a higher percentage of commercial sales.
Additionally we continue to expect that our recent acquisitions will contribute approximately $400 million in sales and putting purchase accounting aside will provide an increased profitability in 2013.
In summary our strategy of growing through niche acquisitions to complement our subsequent organic growth has positioned us for tremendous future opportunities to expand our sales and profitability.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to Marty for his final comments before we wrap up the call.
Well thank you Dave.
As you've heard so far today we continue to position Curtiss-Wright for strong profitable growth.
We intend to accomplish this by advancing internal operational improvements leveraging opportunities to grow its new technologies in markets and expanding our global offering of products and services.
As Dave highlighted integration of our 7 recent acquisitions is going well.
Furthermore our approach to acquisitions requires a business unit management team that will own the target post acquisition fielding the entire process from due diligence through integration.
As a result we typically have different Curtiss-Wright management teams working concurrently on integration which minimizes our overall integration execution risk.
It just so happens that we essentially have 7 different teams working on integration of the 7 recent acquisitions.
That said we are still in the lookout for additional opportunities of similar size and end market profile mainly in upstream oil gas and oil sensors highly technical surface treatment technologies and niche power generation businesses.
We also maintain a stable balance sheet and solid financial profile along with a manageable debt-to-capitalization ratio which provides flexibilities in terms of future transactions.
This directly supports our strategy to further balance our end market diversification one of the core components of our long-term plan that fuels our competitiveness and creates less overall downside risk for Curtiss-Wright.
Next I'd like to highlight some key factors affecting our 2 largest end markets starting in defense.
While they continue resolution with the full defense appropriation bill for fiscal year 2013 has been enacted which provides more clarity on the 2013 budget so we [indiscernible] fiscal year in September.
Uncertainty in the country remains including the possibility for cuts tied to sequestration.
Our best information so far is that cuts to the Navy's shipbuilding plan are likely to result in the elimination of any of the fiscal 2013 ships authorized and appropriate for construction including the refueling and co-op price [ph] overall of CVN-72.
We are eagerly awaiting the decision to come from the Congress regarding the President's fiscal 2014 budget request.
Based on preliminary indications the navy defense outlook appears to be positive as it continues its construction of 2 Virginia Class submarines per year whereby the President's fiscal year 2012 budget requested only 1 Virginia Class submarine for fiscal 2014.
It also notes the potential for increased funding for surface ships that are refueling an overhaul of the prior generation of aircraft carriers keeping us confident in maintaining our naval defense guidance.
Already since January 1 2013 we have received orders of approximately $100 million most of which were planned for products for the Virginia Class submarine construction program CVN-71 and 72 overhaul DDG-51 and DDG-1000 destroyer -- destruction programs and the Ohio Class replacement submarine development program.
We expect additional orders throughout 2013 for the Virginia and the DDG-51 multiyear procurement programs and to support continued CVN-78 and 79 construction and Nimitz class overhauls.
Meanwhile within the aerospace and ground markets continued uncertainty associated with funding authorization remains and it continues to reflect our space expectations for all orders in 2013.
Overall as Glenn noted we continue to project defense-related sales to be flat to down 4% in 2013 which does not factor into any -- any potential specific impact for sequestration.
In fact sequestration appears to be less ominous for our naval defense business.
Next a few updates in power generation starting with the AP1000 program.
As you recall in 2012 we completed the pump construction cycle and shipped the first 4 of 16 reactor coolant pumps or RCPs acquired for the Sanmen Unit 1 in China.
During the first quarter an AP1000 RCP impeller provided to Curtiss-Wright from the supplier was found to be defective and we have since determined numerous impellers from the subcontractor to be defective.
As a result we are working closely with Westinghouse and the Chinese to resize the hardware while minimizing the schedule impacts of deliveries of RCPs to the plants in China.
While we previously expected the remaining 12 certain pumps to be shipped this year it is possible that the final 4 pumps may ship in early 2014.
We will provide an update once the solution has been met.
And at this time we do not expect any additional costs to impact our business nor should it affect the plants being built.
In addition as we previously stated we expect our next AP1000 order to come from China.
We have received the RFQ for multiple newbuild sites under construction with Curtiss-Wright content to be determined.
High-level discussions have taken place with China's State Nuclear Power and Technology Company as formal negotiations have commenced.
We expect an order later this year.
Outside of China newbuild activities continues to progress.
In the UAE we received new orders in the first quarter achieving [ph] 80 million to support UAE's newbuild reactors and have an additional outstanding proposals for another 22 million which we expect to be awarded over the next 6 to 18 months.
In addition we provided proposals in excess of $25 million for new reactors in Romania.
Elsewhere in the operating reactors portion of our business we experienced strong new orders in the first quarter.
Our Flow Control business received more than 5 million in first awards from NRC orders 1 2 and 3 related to Fukushima's response initiatives to have more than $25 million in outstanding proposals.
We also received more than $15 million in new orders specifically tied to existing U.S.-planned operatives to solve the obsolescence issues and more than 6 million from international customers including the U.K.
Sweden Canada Brazil and Spain.
We currently have an additional $40 million in proposals outstanding for U.S.
customers related to our obsolescence solutions.
Finally we continue to see strong order activity supporting plant upgrades and modifications as well as growth in our installed base leading to a solid expansion of Curtiss-Wright content.
Our long-standing expertise in this industry will provide solid growth for years to come.
I also want to highlight the solid operational performance within our Surface Technologies business where organic operating income grew 16% on a 1% increase in sales.
This solid performance reflects the benefit of our 2012 restructuring efforts including the closure of some underperforming facilities and the sale of our heat treat business -- heat treating business as well as continued operational improvements.
The heat treating business was mainly an outsourced type of business that was not in line with our focus on highly engineered technologies in this segment.
As a result of these efforts our further expansion of the technological chain with the addition of Gartner we are able to realize the benefits of improved returns and better mix in technologies for Curtiss-Wright moving forward.
Overall I remain confident with the company's ability to continue to deliver strong revenue and profitability growth as we execute our strategic plans based on solid organic growth enhanced by strategic acquisitions.
We will continue to integrate our recent acquisitions and improve our operations to increase profitability and generate long-term shareholder value.
Furthermore the management is focused on manage -- margin expansion and cash flow generation and we have tasked all of our operational leaders to increase these 2 key metrics.
Finally we expect the growth of our business to be complemented by our disciplined and well-balanced capital allocation strategy which also includes paying down our existing debt along with our commitment to return capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and/or share repurchases.
At this time I'd like to open the conference call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] I'm showing our first question comes from the line of Michael Ciarmoli with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just to dig in on the $0.06 of I guess acquisition-related headwinds.
What are -- what's the expectation for the future quarters? And is that going to be lingering? Are these lingering expenses that'll hit in 2014? Yes Mike let me explain the $0.06.
First of all the dilution in the first quarter comes primarily from interest because from an operating -- the interest we allocated to the acquisitions.
From an operating profit standpoint they were basically breakeven despite the accelerated amortization backlog and the inventory step-up.
So in the first quarter they were basically breakeven from an operating income standpoint.
The acquisitions overall turned accretive and -- slightly accretive in the second quarter and then significantly better in the third and fourth quarters.
And I think I've told you we expected them to generate about $0.12 of EPS after interest in 2013.
And we're tracking on that.
Or we can probably be a little slightly better depending on how the rest of the integration goes.
So the operating income again they turn accretive beginning the next quarter.
From an EPS standpoint it's slightly accretive as well...
Research Division</strong> So there will be no additional kind of adjustments in future quarters.
No.
That's correct yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what about the -- even on looking at your corporate and other kind of $41 million expense this year.
You kind of called out some higher non-segment.
Do any of those expenses roll off next year? Or is that a good level to kind of look at? Well the biggest driver in there is our pension increased pension all right? So we don't really know what next year is going to be yet but I would say I hope that stays level and doesn't increase any  further.
We significantly dropped our discount rate this year.
So that's where that comes from.
Another piece of it is FX translation loss.
It's a nice swing from year to year transactional losses for our hedging programs.
So we actually had losses in the first quarter of 2013.
Again we hope that doesn't reoccur.
And I'm just saying the other thing is we had some -- I won't say higher legal expenses.
We actually had -- we had lower than accrual last year in our legal expense and we have normal legal expense this year.
So that will probably go away.
So a big driver is the pension number.
Research Division</strong> And then last one for me.
Just the cap structure I guess 43% debt-to-cap highest it's been in a while.
I think you said you're going to pay down some debt later this year.
What are the thoughts about that current metric? And I mean are you comfortable at these levels with possibly consummating more acquisitions later in the year? Yes yes we are.
I think I said our projections do call for that to come down to the low 30s.
We have a 45% self-limitation that we've instituted and we've always managed some of the acquisitions later under that metric.
So I think we're comfortable in our -- I -- again our projections shows that metric coming down and our capacity cash available going up for the remainder of the year.
So I'm comfortable.
We are very comfortable.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Levenson with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Good to see the results and the benefits of restructuring the acquisitions.
On the commercial aerospace side can you tell us if you're participating in Boeing's "partnering for success" program? And if so what you see as potential obstacles this year? Or if you can keep your margins where they are and what you think the potential benefits are going forward.
Yes we do -- Steve we do participate with Boeing in the -- in their partnership quest and we have.
That is an ongoing process.
And we are working closely with them to identify areas of cost improvement.
And I would think that we will be able to improve margins as we continue to lean out some of the processes and work closely with them in all areas.
So we have for example some aspects of design improvement that we can incorporate that would reduce costs of some of the parts.
And that's always an opportunity if we can get those through.
So yes we are participating and I would anticipate some pickup.
I don't have a number at this point but yes we are definitely in the process of working with them.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I'm correct they don't guarantee you anything on new programs or increased content on current ones.
But do you have any expectations on that? Are you hearing anything from your peers about participating too? Well as a matter of fact we are -- we did build our merchant operations facility in support of Boeing.
And this is part of that.
When we provide them the capability almost a build-it-and-they-will-come perspective.
They are looking at us as a more viable let's call it a subcontractor vendor in a local area.
And you're right they don't promise you an increased content or share but you certainly get a new peak at opportunities that where -- we would not have had prior to that.
And it gives us the opportunity to compete.
And we do very well in that regard.
So we anticipate picking up new top line as a result of our participation.
That's the whole thing that Boeing is going after.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And on the defense side despite sequestration and some of the programs that have come to an end what sort of opportunities do you see on the MRO or replacement parts side? Is there anything beyond what you've discussed in the guidance that is potentially better? We don't do much MRO when it comes to the Navy -- or to the defense.
We have some repair -- not some repair we have repair capabilities for ground and aerospace.
But we don't see much opportunity there.
What we are looking at and do see a lot of opportunities upgrades with some of the user existing platforms that are going to be modernized out at least the future such as the Abrams and the Bradley where we can have significant increased content there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Did the acquisitions contribute to that or -- at all? Or is it mostly coming from legacy operations? It's coming from legacy operations.
Basically the acquisitions that we acquires of the $400 million [indiscernible] I think only about $10 million is associated with defense.
It's almost all strictly commercial.
Our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Dave I think you mentioned profitability with respect to the mix and moving away from defense towards commercial and the opportunity to improve the overall profitability and profit margin of the company.
If you look today maybe use this quarter as a microcosm or this year is defense -- are defense margins actually below commercial or are they above commercial? They're slightly below.
On the defense basis you know you're limited to how much you can actually charge and make on them.
Think of it as U.S.
government type business and some of it's full sourced.
We have – Most of our business is full source and that's what limits your profitability there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But again they're slightly below.
Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Marty you mentioned the RCP impeller kind of issue.
And you -- I think you talked about it potentially moving out the shipment to the last slug of RCPs to maybe '14.
Is -- are the Chinese willing to place an order this year? Or is that delivery...
Oh yes.
No that's -- the thing is it's better that found the problem.
The problem will be fixed.
It doesn't really delay their operating the plant.
They have already the ability to buy 5 additional new plants of which 4 are designated to be AP1000 and 1 is designated to be an AP1400.
So it's just the natural progression of them placing orders.
Now the thing is is when you're negotiating some portions of that 4 plants what our content will be.
But they're committed to placing those orders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how is the relationship with the organic supplier on the ground there that you've a licensing agreement with in terms of their ability to pick up the manufacture of the RCP and for you to effectively be not producing the RCP for China organically at that point? Well the thing is that we're always going to have some content associated with RCPs with China.
The civil [ph] subcontractors that we have in China are I wouldn't say lagging.
It's not easy to go from not producing these to try to digest them even over a 5-year time frame.
So I think our content over the first 2 RC plants will be much greater than maybe the last 2.
Or it could be equal on all 4.
We'll see how that goes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any you also -- last one on RCP.
So you mentioned it wouldn't be an expense item for the year.
No.
Is that because you've already provisioned for it in the guidance or because...
No no because it's something that has to be covered by our subcontractor.
Our next question comes from the line of Tyler Hojo with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just to follow on the last line of questioning on nuclear.
It sounded like the aftermarket related piece of the business did a little bit better in Q1.
Yes.
LLC</strong> Yes are you kind of changing your expectation within that little niche? Or is that a potential offset for these pumps that could potentially slip into 2014? How are you thinking about that? So first of all let's go with the pump set.
Because we are on a percent-incomplete accounting the -- that really doesn't cause any financial change in reality.
But you're right when we saw -- looking at not only the aftermarket but we have expressed the amount of installed base we have on other reactors other than Westinghouse.
And there is a nuclear build cycle outside of China and we are on those plants.
So not only is the aftermarket doing much better.
We -- and there are a couple of reasons why.
Not only do we have about 20% availability into that phase we do provide a lot of those solutions okay as far as the obsolescence is concerned.
We talked in the past about the Fukushima initiatives that was phased 1 2 and 3.
And we would see -- start to see some procurement in Phase 2 and more procurement in Phase 3.
We're starting to see that.
As a matter of fact we received the first orders based on the Fukushima initiatives.
Next is the fact that we have other plants being built outside of China and the United States.
And we'll just give you some color that as we talked about in the past with UAE; we see in Korea a contract for a couple of new reactors that we have about $20 million of installed base -- $25 million per reactor there.
You're starting to see those procurements coming through.
And also the one in Romania.
So yes I think that even though we haven't changed the guidance I think we're going to do much better in that market space.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So maybe looking at kind of consolidated guidance as a whole maybe you had a little bit less visibility on defense but is the offset there nuclear predominantly? Yes.
No no.
We're doing -- not only that our gas and oil quite frankly is stable.
We're running a little heavy because we are introducing some new products.
We expect to have some traction there.
But also as Dave mentioned our ability to take an overcapacitized facility that we have in Cimarron and putting it up into our Cedar growth -- Crossing facility which is underutilized because of the downturn in the downstream market that also help -- is going to help out in profitability probably this year but very much so going forward next year.
So it's not just the nuclear it's also gas and oil stabilizing and becoming better.
In reality it was base integration between the Cimarron and the Cedar Crossing plants.
That's going to be a huge improvement for us not only in sales but also in profitability somewhat this year.
But really it's all -- a lot of it is going to happen next year.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
Thanks for the additional color there.
Just a quick question on CapEx.
So if I look at your guidance there on the high end I mean you're really only expecting call it like a $17 million or $18 million year-over-year increase but you've got I don't know about $400 million of sales coming online.
Could you just walk us through kind of what's going on with that? When we -- when you really look at that we just spent a lot of money in the past upgrading and doing some restructuring.
We've put 2 new facilities in Mexico.
We upgraded our facility in Tempe Arizona.
We've put in facilities in China not only for sensors but also for Metal Treatment.
So what is happening is we've built up a lot of infrastructure already.
And even though we have $400 million of new business coming in we don't really see -- of course we've spent a lot of money in the past.
We don't really see spending as much money going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
What do you think the kind of the current base of business what the maintenance CapEx would be on that? A lot of our money is not maintenance.
It's actually putting up facilities and new facilities.
So I don't have that breakup for you...
But I think in 2013 Tyler I don't think we have any big major things in our guidance this year.
That more reflects the acquisition offset by some of the things Marty talked about that won't recur that we paid out last year.
So the bulk of that $90 million to $95 million guidance is our current maintenance level now.
LLC</strong> Okay got it.
Great.
And just one last quickie for me.
Do you have the breakdown of backlog by segment? Yes I do.
Okay in Flow Control it's $1.13 billion.
In Controls it's about $570 million.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Ken Herbert with Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to -- based on your comments and -- Marty on the full year guidance I would expect a nice step-up here sequentially from the first to the second quarter.
Am I correct in maybe Controls as probably being one of the biggest contributors to that from a margin standpoint operating profit as I look to sort of back into the mid-60s number for the second quarter? Yes.
I think that when you take a look at -- Controls at LE because the purchase accounting was at 5.9 and we are looking for them to go between 11 8 and 12 which is exactly what's going to take place.
Not only will they schedule a lot of that purchase accounting but they're going to also have quite a bit of improved profitability going forward.
Now assuming really to exclude the acquisitions they would be more in the 13.5% margin range.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a lot of the step-up from the first to the second quarter is just the accounting and the purchase accounting going away but maybe some of that operationally and some of the other impact of what you've done from that front? Exactly.
There's a couple of other things too.
I mean #1 besides this improved operative the turnaround in the acquisitions the incremental volume is about $50 million in the last 3 quarters as well which will provide some favorable absorption.
They've also done a whole bunch of different things to reduce their cost base such as their Mexico facility.
So we're also seeing that ramping and will continue to ramp up throughout the year and that gives us very good savings out of that low-cost economy.
They're going to have an integration savings specifically from the Williams acquisitions from cost in the first quarter to savings in the second the rest of the year and millions of dollars of cost reductions.
And benefits from the reconstructions and whatnot so.
There's a couple of other things besides just the volume that gets them to where they need to be by the end of the year.
That will happen in the last 3 quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just to go back to the AP1000.
I think you highlighted sales in North America for new construction up in the first quarter correct? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And how much is that up over last year? I mean I know obviously these programs are continuing with the percentage-of-completion process.
I mean what kind of growth to AP1000 in North America for new build are you modeling in this year? No.
I think the way you -- we should look at is if you take a look at the China and U.S.
last year to this year we actually were down year-over-year.
And the improvement in sales is all coming from all from aftermarket newbuild and upgrades for the Fukushima.
But when we get the new order you're going to see that switch because you're going to have -- even though it starts to ramp up the United States will increase again next year and then you're going to see a really nice pop come in China toward the end of the year going into the following year.
So we expect to improve profile going outward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just finally I know obviously there's been a number of issues with the pumps as part of this initial order with China and a lot of that to be expected as you've ramped this up.
As you think about transitioning here to a second order and I know that building materials is going to be different but what are you doing just from a risk mitigation standpoint to maybe derisk the subsequent order in China or elsewhere to ideally get to better margins in what should be a very profitable line of business? The thing is that if you'd take a look at the -- from a technical standpoint we already went through a lot of that technical risk.
So what happens is if you take the technical risk and put that to the left and say the configuration should be stabilized okay? And the second is obviously as you've made hardware you have to remake it again.
That goes away.
Then it comes down to rework.
The first 16 pumps we had about 25% reworked across the board for the first order.
Our domestic is tracking at 7.
So you're going to see that learning curve coming through and the risk mitigation going away from both a technical standpoint and a cross standpoint.
I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Martin Benante for closing remarks.
Well thank you Kate.
And thank you for joining us today.
One final note before we end the call.
We're excited to announce that our new Curtiss-Wright website will launch later in the second quarter so be on the lookout in the near future.
And I also look forward as well as Dave and Glenn to speaking to you again during our Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Thanks a lot for joining us.
Thank you.
Have a good one.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good afternoon.
My name is Michael and I would be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Williams Controls’ first quarter 2011 results conference call.
(Operator instructions) I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Dennis Bunday Chief Financial Officer of Williams Controls.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our first fiscal quarter 2011 conference call.
Before we begin you should note that the following discussion and responses to questions reflect management's views as of today February 3 2011 and may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Information concerning risk factors and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in our filings with the SEC including our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K our fiscal 2011 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our fiscal 2011 current reports on Form 8-K.
Specific factors that may cause such a difference include but are not limited to availability of adequate working capital domestic and international competitive pressures increased governmental regulation increased cost of materials and labor and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO Pat Cavanagh for his comments on the quarter.
Thank you Dennis.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fiscal first quarter investor conference call.
This morning we released our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2011.
Our sales for the first fiscal quarter were $13.6 million up 15.7% over the same quarter last year.
This is typically the weakest quarter of the year because there are fewer working days and scheduled customer shutdowns.
Net income for the quarter was $644 000 or $0.09 per diluted share compared to $396 000 or $0.05 per diluted share last year.
From a standpoint sales were up 57% to European truck OEMs improving over last year’s first fiscal quarter due to higher customer build rates this year and a low base last year due truck inventory overhang and weak market conditions.
Asian sales increased 49% on increased volumes in both the truck and off-road segments in China and India.
As we have talked about in the past this growth is due to increased usage of emission compliant engines in these markets.
NAFTA truck sales were up 10% from the same quarter last year.
Current NAFTA industry forecast are for somewhere between 200 000 and 244 000 class 8 truck shipments in calendar year 2011 up from 154 000 units in calendar year 2010.
December was the fourth month in a row of strong class 8 orders.
Moreover class 8 orders in both December and January are over 25 000 each month which results in an annual order rate of 300 000 class 8 trucks.
This could point to an upside in the industry forecast in 2011 if this continues but it still unclear until we get through the first calendar quarter.
Presently forecast for NAFTA class 8 truck production in 2012 are in the 260 000 to 310 000 unit range.
Class 5 through class 7 NAFTA medium-duty truck production reached 116 000 units in calendar year 2010 and is expect to reach 125 000 units in calendar year 2011 and 168 000 units in 2012.
We believe the recent increase in truck demand is driven by rising freight demand coupled with improving trucker profits strengthening used truck prices easing credit conditions and the record age of the North American fleet.
I think combined with everyone else’s improving confidence in economy.
Dennis Bunday Mark Koenen and I were in Pune India in January to celebrate the grand opening of our new manufacturing plant.
We will begin production in this quarter at that facility.
In attendance at our celebration were executives from several of the major Indian truck OEMs along with a number of our suppliers.
Indian sales in our first fiscal quarter were almost half of our total sales to India in all of fiscal 2010.
We believe we will sell over $2 million to the Indian truck OEMs in fiscal 2011 from our plant in Pune.
The (inaudible) countries now account for over 60% of the total over 6-ton world truck production.
And they are expected by some forecasters to grow by more 50% by 2014.
As you know we’ve been aggressively positioning Williams early in these markets to take advantage of their growth and the penetration of more emission-friendly engines that will use our electronic throttle pedals.
In calendar year 2010 there were an estimated 1.1 million trucks over 6 tons produced in China 240 000 in India and 53 000 in Russia compared to 300 000 in North America and 291 000 in Europe.
These volumes are expected to grow in 2012 to 1.2 million in China 312 000 in India and 102 000 in Russia while the North American market over 6 ton is expected to reach 493 000 and in Europe it will grow to over 550 000.
I will now turn the call over to Dennis to discuss our financial performance in the quarter.
Thank you Pat.
Net income for the quarter was $644 000 or $0.09 per diluted share compared to net income of $396 000 or $0.05 per diluted in the first quarter of 2010 the 63% improvement in net income was a combination of higher sales lower material and warranty cost as a percent of sales and engineering selling and administrative costs growing at slower rate than sales.
For the quarter the basic EPS share count was 7 290 122 and fully diluted shares were 7 436 184.
At quarter end we had 7 292 944 shares outstanding.
First quarter 2011 gross profits were $4.3 million a 19% improvement over the first quarter of last year and a 12% improvement over the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010.
For this year’s first quarter gross margins were 31.6% of sales compared to 30.6% in the first quarter of last year and 27.1% in the fourth quarter of last year.
Contributing to the gross margin improvement material costs were lower in the quarter as have been able to transition to a lower pricing structure for some components of our new products as volumes ramp up.
Also last year we were working through a difficult warranty issue which was resolved in the fourth quarter of last year resulting in warranty costs this quarter that were $65 000 lower than the corresponding quarter a year-ago.
Overhead was up 18% from the first quarter of 2010.
In addition to directly variable overhead items such as shipping and production supplies several smaller items including India start-up expenses and medical premiums contributed to the increase.
Wage expense was also higher this quarter due in part to the temporary salary reductions that were in effect in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 as part of our prior cost reduction program.
Although not a significant factor in this quarter’s comparisons our freight situation warrants a comment.
As we mentioned in some of our previous calls managing freight cost was a challenge last year as orders ramped up rapidly and many of our suppliers had difficulty meeting the aggressive delivery schedules.
We estimated that expedited freight costs as over $500 000 last year.
Our supply chain and logistic situation has improved significantly and our first quarter freight costs as percent of sales were lower than at any time last year.
Operating expenses which include engineering and development sales and administration were up $343 000 during the quarter compared to last year’s first quarter.
As was the case with overhead the first quarter of 2010 included temporary salary reductions which when compared to the first quarter of 2011 contributed to part of the increase in all operating expense categories.
Engineering costs increased as we can continue to have a record number of engineering projects under development.
To meet this higher demand we have three additional engineers working on customer-specific projects this year compared to last year’s first quarter.
In addition to the reinstatement of full salary levels from the salary reduction program began in 2009 administrative expenses were also up in part due to filling positions left [ph] vacant during the economic down turn.
Offsetting some of these increases in operating expenses was a reduction in legal fees as the first quarter of fiscal 2010 included legal fees associated with the Cuesta class action lawsuit which was settled during the later part of fiscal 2010.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
Net cash at end of the quarter which includes our cash balance and a small outstanding amount on our revolver was $1.3 million a decline of $1.7 from our year-end cash balance.
EBITDA which consists of operating income depreciation and the non-cash charge for stock option expense contributed $1.6 million.
However first quarter is when we normally pay a number of once-yearly payments including property taxes insurance payments and bonuses and a decline in cash is not unexpected.
In addition pension payments increases in inventory and timing of payments of some accounts payable and payment of our previously accrued warranty item with one customer contributed to the reduction in cash.
Although net cash is down to $1.3 million at December 31 2010 we believe this cash on hand plus our borrowing capacity of $5.8 million on our revolving loan facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs in the future.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the first quarter was $560 000 and non-cash stock option expense was $169 000.
CapEx for the quarter was $836 000.
This is higher than the capital spent during last year’s first quarter and more reflects what is expected for the full year.
We have a record number of new projects that we are tooling up for and we are also expanding our test and development facilities to handle the increased activity.
We are also aggressively implementing next generation cellular manufacturing to further improve our production capability and quality.
In addition capital spending in fiscal 2011 will be higher than normal due to the opening of our India manufacturing facility.
For the full year I expect we will spend about $3.5 million to $4 million on capital projects in 2011.
This concludes our formal comments.
We would now like to turn the meeting over to questions.
(Operator instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Paul Johnson with NICUSA Capital.
Wow changed the name of the firm cool.
Hi Paul how are you? Paul I thought maybe you changed the firm.
No no no.
I was like “Whoa who’s that?” How are you? Happy New Year.
Very good happy New Year.
Happy New Year to you Paul.
Couple of questions.
First gross margins were up nicely sequentially.
I know a couple of things went on in the September quarter that obviously dampened that.
Right.
If in fact you are sort of shadow internal forecast on revenues work out this year how should we be thinking about modeling gross margins in fiscal ‘11 and fiscal ‘12? Do you want to handle that Dennis? I can take a shot at that.
Well we have a relatively large component of our cost of goods in sales that is overhead which is of course not directly variable with sales.
So although we don’t break out a lot of specifics in there there is that fixed component to it.
If sales continue to increase our expectation is that gross margins will increase.
I think if you look at a couple of years ago when we were in the 17 million-ish range of sales we were in the mid 30% range of gross profit margins somewhere in there.
I don’t think that’s unreasonable.
I guess that was really the hidden question.
Yeah.
Really yeah.
The question is if sales go up we expect the margins to improve.
(inaudible) There is nothing about the current product offering that would suggest that old historical margins are unattainable.
No.
No not really no.
There is always a mix of margins -- some products have better profit margins than the ones that can (inaudible) not quite so good in everything.
But in general I don’t see that directionally changing significantly.
Okay.
Got it.
You know Paul we are going into higher volume production with our new LCV pedal which we’re launching this quarter in India and that margin is not – that’s the margin of some of our historical products.
At the same time we’re introducing a number of new products that have higher margins.
So we think the mix is kind of keeps us in the same ballpark that we always been in.
I guess my thought was that most of the degradation of gross margin over the last year and a half have been the absorption issue Dennis that you referred to.
That’s a fair state.
And if in fact sales...
And well I take that back Paul.
Actually there was that plus we had these freight problems.
Last year when the economic ramped up not unlike a lot of folks we had some logistics challenges as we’re trying to -- our customers were putting in orders pretty quick and our suppliers were trying to catch up and we did a lot of air freighting last year to cater [ph] customer demands and that was in there too.
Yeah (inaudible).
That – hopefully we got that pretty well behind us.
It’s always a challenge but hopefully that’s pretty well behind us.
Our suppliers a lot of companies had cut back and when the market turned around it was really tough for some of them to bring production back up.
And with our position in the market we were not going to absolutely – and in no circumstances are we going leave one of our customers without product; it just wasn’t going to happen.
So that drove some of that cost.
Yeah fair enough.
And you guys did a very good job of articulating that along the way.
So I just want to make sure I was interpreting this correctly.
My next question is the inventories are built pretty steadily now for three to four quarters and not to put words in your mouth but I assume that’s an anticipation of a need to have higher inventories? That’s a fair statement.
Yeah.
And the other thing too is I won’t say I think we are probably abnormal -- if you go back in 2010 we were a little bit lower on inventories than we would like to have been.
We had -- because of the air freight issues and stuff like [ph] -- we had shortages of inventory that we were dealing with.
So we were probably a little bit lower than we would have liked to have been for the sales levels as we are ramping up but I mean the idea is that we’re landing [ph] inventory for – Yeah there is a couple of things.
In addition Paul we’ve got a number of new products that we’re introducing.
We’ve got to build inventory to launch those products.
We’ve got the India operation coming up where we’ve had to duplicate inventory to get that started up.
So got some of those things going on.
Dennis you might not have thought of it this way but the turns in the quarter then are a little lighter then you’d like to see or is this actually sort of where would like to see them? I think right now as Pat said we’re landing some inventory to get India started up.
We have several new products that we are in process of gearing up for.
So once we get that through and balance [ph] I expect our turns to increase.
What we can target Paul is -- it’s a little bit we don’t look at it so much as turns but as a percent of sales and we tend to look at world-class companies that have kind of a global footprint like we do at under 10% of -- inventory under 10% of sales.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Really for Pat -- last quarter you guys started to articulate certainly a more robust outlook for class 8 trucks for heavier trucks and certainly global production you are now starting to see exposure between your China facility and your India investment.
I’m assuming that if those forecasts are even closely accurate maybe they are even [ph] aggressive but there is an evidence to suggest they are not -- they are conservative.
That you guys have not lost share ASPs haven’t shifted a whole lot.
I realize the India product is probably a little bit less expensive.
I assume you’ll participate if that proves to be true in calendar ‘11 and ’12; those sorts of for trucks.
Yeah absolutely.
I mean we are deeply engrained in that market and we are very focused on it and the real question and the question I get all the time especially from our Board of Directors is that how fast will a penetration of electronic engine happen in China and India and that’s really – that’s a difficult question to ask because they are not quite as clean and precise as our regulatory system is here in North America.
So they are kind of moving ahead in kind of bits and spurts and we’re really at the very kind of beginning of that right now.
How fast over the next two or three years that penetration ramps up and how well we maintain our share in those developing markets is really going to tell the story.
Fair enough.
If I look back a couple of years ago you guys were doing mid to higher teens revenue per quarter with a product line that was more narrow geographic more narrow in terms of the end markets.
I am now looking at a company that has got a true global footprint.
You’ve got an expansion of products in terms of the size of the trucks you address and the number of products you can ship into the trucks.
Paul to answer your question my goal is just substantially surpass where we were in sales a couple of years ago.
And we think… you’ve answered the question? Yeah.
All right.
Thank you Thanks Paul.
(Operator instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Juan Noble with Taglich Brothers.
Hi good afternoon.
Good afternoon Juan.
How are you? Good thanks.
Just a couple of questions.
The first one I was curious if you could break out the NAFTA sales for the quarter; what percentage of total sales did they make up? And with the increase in overseas sales do you believe that NAFTA sales will make up a greater or lesser percentage of total sales for the year? Well let’s see.
NAFTA sales were 61% of our total for the quarter.
Was that 51% or 61%? 61%.
61% of total okay.
And that’s the overall market Juan and that’s not just trucks; that’s our NAFTA sales which includes off-road and a number of other elements of our sales mix.
Okay.
I’m just trying to – because obviously with China and well India I think you said about $2 million in sales for India right now.
So I’m just curious if – especially with the robust forecast for the NAFTA market if you feel that that would actually be a greater percentage than say this first quarter for the entire fiscal year? I would have to run the numbers.
What I think I said in my comments Juan was that the NAFTA – it’s too early to tell.
We are seeing some interesting developments in the last several months in truck orders.
Now that – when that translates into shipments there is a delay there.
So we are not sure the impact that it’s going to have on total NAFTA truck sales this year and we are not sure exactly I mean to a certain extent we have budgeted and so on but there is also what is going to happen with the off-road segment.
We believe – I think directionally we believe that NAFTA will become a smaller and smaller part of our overall sales.
you said you recently increased your staffing.
I am just curious if there would be more hiring going forward as business improves or do you feel that the current staffing can handle – roughly handle what you expect for the year? Well there is a thing that flexes with us when we look at our administrative complement of people and sales we feel pretty good where we are at.
But as we develop these new programs and they have – some of them have some very short fuses; we flex our engineering capability to be able to respond to our customers in a timely manner.
So I think as Dennis said we added a number of engineers over the last year to meet some very specific new programs that we were able to win and we will continue to do that as time goes on.
And we are looking to win a significant number of new programs this year as we did last and we may add more engineers.
Okay.
But on the – In India which is – I think you forecasted about maybe 2 million in sales there.
Right.
So I don’t imagine a big ramp-up in hiring there but – We will probably add at least 30 people over the next year.
And what would that be dollar wise? Just to get an idea of what that – I really don’t have a number; I can get that to you later.
Certainly the salary levels of assembly workers and engineers and software people and those types of people in India are at a lower level than they are in the US.
That’s why I was hoping to get maybe a ballpark figure of what to expect in that area.
We will take a look at it Juan; we can talk later.
It’s probably – you are probably looking at somewhere between 30% and 40% of US rates probably less for the actual manufacturing people.
If you look at the professional side I think it’s in that 30% to 40% range.
Okay.
Just one final question actually in regard to – I’m just curious because obviously with the plant there the shipping costs go down but now with the plant in India and specifically what about $2 million in revenue you are forecasting for the year how much of an impact would shipping now from India have on the gross margins versus how the small amount of business was done in India before? Well assuming that we were manufacturing it here but some of that product was manufactured in China; but it was a small amount.
The reason we are there is that we felt that we had to be local to be able to win the business with the major Indian truck OEMs and obviously that product is – a large portion of that product is sourced in India and we will not be shipping parts in.
There will be some parts that we will but the majority of the larger components that make up the product will be sourced in India.
And there is a transition process as we go through that but that’s really our plan.
We may down the road use the India facility to supply Europe or some other markets such as Russia or others and we haven’t really decided on that issue right now.
Okay.
But going back to historic rates at a given level of revenue now that you ship from India say in the second quarter it shouldn’t really have an impact on the –? Juan the amount of sales that we had in India that we were shipping in from China or the United States was very very small.
So I mean it is lost in the shuffle really; those kinds of shipping costs.
And in many cases the customer was paying those shipping costs.
Okay.
So basically I mean this coming year fiscal 2011 gross margins at least on historical basis for given level of revenue should more or less be in the ballpark? This shouldn’t affect it either positively or negatively as far as the planned shipping from India now? No not really Juan.
I mean not really.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Nitz [ph] a stockholder.
Gentlemen as long-term stockholder I wonder as sales and profits ratchet up how do we generate more interest in the stock from hopefully new purchasers? Dennis? Well I think as everybody knows one of the challenges is always float with our stock and I think we have to – as we do better hopefully our income will drive a higher stock price and it will shake some of those shares loose so that there can be some additional trading in the stock.
But we manage this thing pretty conservatively and pretty prudently we think.
And what we are focused on right now is long-term growing this business.
We had a lot of opportunities in a lot of markets worldwide and the thing that we are really focused on is growing this company so that we can create the higher EBITDAs the higher earnings that are going to drive the stock price.
I mean that’s really the plan here.
One of the things that we are doing this year and we’ve done it in the past we are going to the Taglich Investor Conference and we are going to be making a presentation there.
That always seems to help the trading volume in the stock and we are trying to do that this year.
And we continue to talk to investors and people that are interested in the stock and – but I will tell you that we don’t do a lot of promotional activity and we don’t spend a lot of time in New York; we tend to spend a lot of time at our customers and maybe we need to do a little more promotional work.
Well as you can see there is very very little stock sales taking place and hopefully you can drive more interest through something like a stock split or a dividend or an IR – continuous IR kind of thing to get more interest in the stock itself.
Yes you may be right.
One other question are you happy with the margins that are taking place considering your two new plants in China and India? Do you see that these margins are where you want them to be based on your prior plant production? Without a doubt.
We are very satisfied with the margins in both places.
Okay.
Thank you.
All right.
Thanks Peter.
(Operator instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Michael Taglich.
Hello guys.
Hey Mike.
Hi Mike.
Good afternoon.
Hang on Mike.
Mike 000.
That’s basically just that start-up cost in India yes.
And where do you think the profitability run rate will be in the second half of this calendar year there? I think what you are going to find Mike is it we are going to start shipping in relatively small quantities in the second fiscal quarter of the year.
This is a start-up operation without a doubt.
We had to go over there; we had established all of our manufacturing the manufacturing process to get people hired and all that.
So we are going to be looking forward ICS making small profits in the latter part of the year in the fourth quarter.
This time I think we will probably – we will probably have a small profit in the fourth quarter.
but we are going to use cash there this year.
And whether that’s $300 000 $400 000 $500 000 a lot of it just depends on timing.
But it’s not going to be a – I don’t think we will see a cash generation from India until next year.
The other thing too is that – in there we have CapEx and that uses our operating expenses but we are spending – that’s going to cost us – now we have $0.5 million plus.
These are pretty sophisticated manufacturing.
So this is – these are just sophisticated manufacturing soldiers we have in the US or China plus we had to put utilities in and prep this thing for manufacturing at the quality levels that Williams Controls manufacturers at and that is not cheap.
And so we still have some more work there we saw some more shelf to put it in and this type of thing.
So on top of that -- so we are looking at using cash without a doubt this year.
Okay.
Is China the beating cash [ph] or pretty even or – from a cash flow generation standpoint? Well part of that is how you manage the pricing in this type of thing because a lot of products come from China back into the United States but if you took – if you took our China operations China selling into our China customers that is probably still at a use of cash level yes.
Is it a big number or small number? That’s not a big number Mike again India level that type of thing.
Okay.
It’s not millions and millions but it is not – these are – again China is similar to India it’s still a start-up.
They are a very small percentage of the trucks manufactured and that’s one of the exciting things about this business.
It’s one of the – they are a small percentage today the emission compliant engines and using our pedals and they are still the mechanical.
So as that continues to develop we will start generating cash on those businesses but right now the market is still in the development process.
Okay.
All right.
I’m done thanks.
Thanks Mike.
Thanks Mike.
And there are no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back to management.
Well thank you everyone.
This concludes our first quarter conference call and thank you for attending today.
Bye now.
Bye thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference call and you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon my name is Jonathan and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I’d like to welcome everyone to the Williams Controls Inc.
second fiscal quarter 2011 results conference call.
(Operator instructions) After the speakers’ remark there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
Dennis Bunday Chief Financial Officer will begin the conference.
Good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter fiscal 2011 conference call.
Before we begin you should note that the following discussions and responses to questions reflect management's views as of today May 9 2011 and may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Information concerning risk factors and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in our filings with the SEC including our 2010 annual report on Form 10-K our fiscal 2011 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our fiscal 2011 current reports on Form 8-K.
Specific factors that may cause such a difference include but are not limited to availability of adequate working capital domestic and international competitive pressures increased governmental regulation increased costs of materials and labor and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO Pat Cavanagh for his comments on the quarter.
Thank you Dennis.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fiscal second quarter investor conference call.
This morning as you know we released our financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2011.
The sales for the second fiscal quarter were $14.8 million up 16.9% over the same quarter last year.
Sales for the first six months of fiscal 2011 increased (inaudible) or 16.3% to 28.3 million from the comparable period last year.
Our net income in the second quarter was 224 000 or $0.03 per diluted share compared to a net loss of 432 000 or $0.06 per diluted share in the corresponding quarter of fiscal 2010.
Net income for the six months ended March 31 2011 was $868 000 or $0.12 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $37 000 or $0.01 per diluted share for the same six month period ended in 2010.
The results for both the quarter and six-month periods were impacted by one-time expenses for banking and legal expenses related to an acquisition that was terminated in due diligence resolution of a long-standing legal issue related to a former employee and India start-up costs.
Dennis is going to discuss these in detail later in our call.
From a revenue standpoint compared to the first six months of later year our Asian sales were up 23% our European sales were up 43% and our North American sales were up 7%.
Within Asia China was up 15% and India sales were up 240% from a small base but we believe sales there will exceed $1 million this fiscal year in India.
In Europe truck sales were up 79% from the same period last year.
And in North America our truck sales were also up by 24% while our service business is down slightly between the six-month periods.
Our global off-highway sales were also up 12% from a record year last year.
Military sales however were down 50% compared to last year with the completion of a couple of key programs.
Going forward we’ve been selected for a new program but the ramp-up will be later in this year.
With over 25% of our business tied to the North American heavy truck market I thought it would be helpful to make some comments about the outlook in this market.
The last three years I’ve been talking about the weakness in this segment of our business its impact on Williams and when is it expected to recover.
With an improving freight picture easier credit higher used truck prices an aging fleet and an improving economy fleets have the confidence to place orders for new trucks to modernize their fleets.
At this point we believe the recovery in the North American market is well under way.
Net truck orders in March totalled 28 900 units and it was the fifth straight month of a strong quartering pattern.
The backlog at the end of March was over a 100 000 units and this backlog is a 150% higher than at the same time last year.
It is at levels not seen since 2006.
In addition early indications for April show orders at over 35 000 units which will add to this backlog of trucks.
All of our North American customers are working very hard to accelerate the build rate from the current levels but this process takes time and there are some reported component shortages that are slowing down this ramp up.
We’re seeing improved volumes this quarter over the last two quarters but I expect the second-half of this calendar year will show marked improvements over the first-half build rates.
You might know that slightly under 50 000 trucks were built in the first calendar quarter of this year and the yearly projections are for the build of 230 000 to 250 000 units.
This is up from a 154 000 units in calendar year 2010.
In calendar year 2012 the industry is projected to build between 290 000 and 310 000 units.
I will now turn the call over to Dennis Bunday to discuss our financial performance in the quarter.
Dennis? Thank you Pat.
Net income for the quarter was $224 000 or $0.03 per diluted share compared to a loss of $432 000 or $0.06 per share in the second quarter of 2010 and $644 000 or $0.09 per share in the first quarter of 2011.
There were one-time unusual charges in the first and second quarter fiscal 2011 and in the second quarter of 2010.
The 2011 second quarter included after-tax charges of approximately $290 000 or $0.04 per share related to a potential acquisition that we decided to terminate while in due diligence and a legal settlement of a long outstanding claim against the company.
Although the acquisition was potentially attractive we concluded that based on some issues uncovered in due diligence it was a not in the company’s or the shareholders’ best interest to complete this transaction.
We’re still committed to finding strategic properly-priced opportunities but they have to be right for the company.
The 2010 second quarter included an after-tax charge of approximately $485 000 or $0.07 per share for settlement of the Cuesta class action lawsuit.
Excluding these one-time charges the 2011 second quarter net income would have been $514 000 or $0.07 per share and the 2010 second quarter would have generated a small profit of $53 000 or $0.01 per share.
Comparing the second quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2011 the majority of the earnings decline was due to the one-time items variances in the tax provision the India start-up and normal timing expenses during the year.
Changes in the tax rate due in part to establishing a tax valuation reserve on the India losses contributed approximately $0.03 per share to the lower results.
India start-up costs were approximately $0.01 per share higher in the second quarter.
For the first six months of fiscal 2011 net income was $868 000 or $0.12 per share compared to a net loss of $37 000 or $0.01 per share in the first half of last year.
The same one-time items that impacted the second fiscal quarters of 2011 and 2010 of course impacted the six-month results.
The after-tax impact of the potential acquisition expense and legal settlement for the first six months of 2011 was approximately $410 000 or $0.06 per share.
For the quarter the basic EPS share count was 7 293 187 and the diluted EPS share count was 7 465 390.
At quarter-end we had 7 293 309 shares outstanding.
Second quarter 2011 gross profits were $4.4 million a 32% improvement over last year’s second quarter gross profits of $3.4 million.
For this year’s second quarter gross margins were 29.9% compared to 26.5% in the second quarter of last year.
For the first six months gross profits improved $8.7 million or a 30.7% gross margin on $28.3 million of sales compared to $6.9 million or 28.5% on $24.4 million of sales for the first six months of 2010 with largely the same variances as in the quarters.
The margin improvements for both the second quarter and first six months was largely due to higher sales volumes to distribute fixed overhead costs.
Freight and warranty costs were also lower in 2011.
You may recall last year we were incurring higher freight costs as some suppliers had difficulty meeting accelerated delivery schedules.
Those issues have largely been resolved this year and although sales volumes have increased freight costs have decreased slightly on a quarter-over-quarter and year-to-date basis.
Warranty cost decreased $300 000 and $375 000 respectively for the second quarter and first six months of 2011 as the corresponding periods in 2010 included higher warranty costs related to warranty claims with one customer.
We’re also starting to see some pricing pressure on raw materials which had a small impact in the quarter.
Overhead increased for both the second quarter and first six months of 2011.
In addition to directly variable overhead items increasing such as shipping and production supplies and volume related business interruption insurance premiums India start-up expenses and the higher wage related expenses to fill positions left vacant during the economic downturn contributed to the increase.
Health insurance premiums are also higher than last as those costs continue to increase at an escalating rate.
Overall overhead expenses were up on a dollar-for-dollar basis for the quarter and six months of 2011 but were lower in each period on a percentage of sales basis.
Excluding one-time charges in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 engineering sales and administrative expenses were up $97 000 from the second quarter of fiscal 2010.
The second quarter increase also included start up costs for our India facility and higher wage related expense to fill open positions that were left vacated during the economic downturn.
For the first six months operating expenses were $262 000 compared to 2010 after excluding the one-time charges for essentially the same reasons that were in the second quarter.
For the second quarter the effective tax rate was 53% compared to an effective tax rate of 41% for the second quarter of fiscal 2010.
The rate increase in this quarter is primarily the result of recording a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets related to our India subsidiary.
In addition the effective rate will fluctuate based on the tax jurisdictions in which the pre-tax income or losses earned and the income tax rate differences between domestic and foreign jurisdictions.
The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2011 was 33.7% compared to a rate of 82.3% for the comparable period in fiscal 2010.
Overall we should have normalized tax rates in the mid 30% ranges.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow our net cash position was essentially at breakeven at the end of the second quarter with cash of $1.2 million offset by a similar amount outstanding on our revolver.
EBITDA which consists of our operating income depreciation and the non-cash charge for stock option expense contributed $2.4 million in the first six months of fiscal 2011.
Cash usage included increases in accounts receivables and inventories payments to our pension plans and capital expenditures.
Accounts receivable increased $1 million primarily due to higher sales volumes and timing of sales and collections within the quarter.
Inventories increased 1.1 million during the first six months of fiscal 2011.
We’ve built $376 000 of inventory at our India facility ahead of the start of production.
Based on the strength we’re seeing in the market for new trucks we’re selectively increasing crucial inventory items to ensure continuity of deliveries to our customers as orders ramp up.
Trade payables and accrued expenses were down from the end of fiscal 2010 due to the timing of payments of accounts payable and payment of our previously accrued warranty item with one customer.
Depreciation and amortization for the second quarter was $549 000 and non-cash stock option expense was $252 000.
CapEx for the quarter was $826 000 and $1.7 million year to date.
We anticipate our capital spending will be approximately in the 3.5 to $4 million range for the full-year of 2011 which is higher than we’ve spent in prior years as we continue to expand test and development facilities develop tooling for several new projects and invest in our new India facility.
This concludes our formal comments.
We would now like to turn the meeting over to questions.
(Operator instructions) Your first question comes from the line of John Nobile from Taglich Brothers.
Your line is now open.
Hi good afternoon.
Good afternoon John.
Hi John.
Hi.
I just would like to know exactly where the $290 million after-tax charge shows up in your income statement? Well John it’s only 290 000 fortunately.
Yes that’d be a big number for us.
Sorry about that.
That shows up in our admin line and that’s an after-tax number.
So the pre – What is pre-tax? The pre-tax number would be about 450 000.
450 000 pre-tax.
Yes.
And let’s see the military applications how much did that contribute to sales in the quarter and what do you anticipate the replacement program would contribute to sales? You’re asking in the first six months? Actually I’m asking for the quarter but I’ll take both for the quarter and six months for the military applications because there was a drop in those sales so I just wanted to get a feel for how much? John that’s not something that we normally talk about.
That number is not out there in the public.
And on the new program I’ll tell you that we’re looking for the increases in that program to begin ramping in the fourth calendar quarter of this year.
Fourth calendar quarter.
Yes.
No you can’t quantify that? I don’t want to talk about the specific program but I will tell you there’s a program and it will ramp up in the starting of the quarter.
We don’t breakout our military sales.
Okay.
And you had mentioned that you anticipate in the second half the build rates would be significantly higher than the first half obviously that we are fortunate [ph]? Yes it’s trending that way.
Okay.
What I wanted to find out was what specifically are you seeing in regard to part shortages being satisfied that you feel that you are going to make – kind of make up what the build rates should have been? I know – I was clear enough on this.
We are not affected neither by the Japanese earthquake no any other shortages.
We invested in our supply base even during the downturn and continue to do so.
And we are fully capable of making deliveries required of us and we have a very very high rating on on-time delivery with all of the OEMs.
It’s not us that is slowing down it’s some of the other suppliers for some items.
There is just – it’s just really hard for them to ramp up from the low levels they are at which restricts the OEMs from building as many cars as they’d like to build.
With the backlog we – go ahead John.
I mean I understand that but other parts manufacturers haven’t been able to keep with the rate of building freeze maybe they didn’t anticipate but I’m just curious as to that slowing you down because they are not being able to building the entire truck so they are hold off on electronic throttle controls so they get everything in or – they would take your –? Yes they don’t take our parts ahead of time.
This is a JIT situation.
We are delivering – our products are typically going on the trucks within a week of delivery.
So when they are not going to – they schedule their build-out weeks at a time and they know how many trucks they are going to build and they don’t want to part – parts they can get.
And we actually change our delivery quantities within a week in some cases.
Okay.
So till they get the actual or tires till the product is almost completely built and ordered for then they will see or you will see an order for the electronic throttle control so that’s where maybe the first half of this year is a little bit slow –? John you got a picture of that it is not correct.
The OEMs are constantly feeding us their bill schedules and they do that for every manufacturer.
The restrictions that they have and we get the same lead time as their suppliers do in most cases.
But what they are seeing is a restriction in the ramp-up of some components so they can only forecast such a build – they can only forecast a build rate that they think that they can sustain.
So until that they get an indication from some of the vendors that are causing some of the restricted ramp-up – until they get that kind of information from them we won’t get any we won’t see any increases in build rate and there is no like one big order that we get.
We get orders every day from these OEMs updating their schedules two to three to four weeks out.
Okay.
Is that more clear? That helps.
Yes I just wanted to get an indication of why feel the second half what are seeing now turn the case at – these – more tests may pick up? Well I think John the most – the clearest indication is that there is a backlog of unbilled trucks of over a 100 000 units and these OEMs would like to build those trucks and ship them.
And so they are doing everything within their means to be able to ramp up their supply base to be able to supply their kind of build rate.
And we are seeing it in this quarter and it’s very obvious the OEMs are doing their very best to ramp this rate to fulfil the need.
Okay.
And that backlog in general is about did you say about a 150 000 units? No no it is 100 000 units – with a 100 000 units at the end of March.
A 100 000 that compares to last year’s – you had said that – mentioned early in the call –? It’s a 150% of last year I believe at the same time.
Okay.
So right now you have about 150 000 or OEMs have about a 100 000 unit backlog? Right.
And my indication John – the number hasn’t been published yet but my – the indications that I have is that they the OEMs took orders for over 30 000 units in April which will add to that backlog.
Okay.
And that should obviously put a lot of pressure on the suppliers that maybe have that shortage and obviously I would –? Right.
I want to be very clear we do not have a shortage at Williams-Controls.
No I understand that.
I just want to do – okay all right.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Your next question comes from the line of John Bond with Nicusa Capital.
Your line is now open.
Hi Pat.
This is actually Paul.
We are saving you money by calling in on one line.
Hi Paul.
Hi Paul.
How are you? I’m well.
How are you? Good.
Just I had a couple of questions I wanted to follow up on John’s question.
You’ve said a couple of times you do not have a supply constraint at Williams is that – the throttle control you are going to ship it to them.
If in fact the bottleneck at either the actual supplier or perhaps the tire supplier those current bottlenecks starts to alleviate themselves in the next couple of months which is certainly the hope and to some degree the plan and we start to ship against backlog of over a 100 000 units because they took in orders for 30 000 in the month of April you know the backlog because they didn’t build 30 000 units in the month of April.
If that’s so can you meet demand if it starts to accelerate in the second half? Yes we’ve already – we as a regular process in our manufacturing environment we look at what our capacity is what it could be what we think we are going to need.
We actually get down to by part number kind of forecasting.
And we have every indication at this point in time that we can meet the demand.
I will tell you we met the demand when it was 360 000 units a year and we have more capacity today than we did then.
And Paul this is Dennis.
We have been building inventories of some of our crucial inventory components so we don’t get parts shortage – perfect on that but we’ve been building that we continue to build it and we monitor that.
And so we can – definitely the challenges of course is just that the OEMs have a supply base we do too.
So they need to make sure those guys are ready to go and we’ve been working with them for the last several months to make sure that we will have the supplies in.
So hopefully we won’t get caught short on any shortages.
Unlike – you have to deliver (inaudible) to a lot of your customers Correct.
And some of your perennial components you do not want to rely on JIT from your suppliers? Correct.
We normally try to keep it as close to JIT as we can.
But we don’t know how quick these shortages and these bottlenecks are going to be resolved and so we want to be ready for that.
So our inventories today for example are higher than you would probably normally see it for this level of sales.
For instance Paul when there is chip shortage it started about six months ago we went out and bought all the chips we can get our hands.
We had the cash and we just went out and bought all the chips we just did not want to take a chance.
So I’ve got chips that we are using but we were not shorted and we did not short any of customers on delivery.
But those are the kind of things that you’re constantly monitoring.
And the key is that there is strong demand for trucks and the OEMs can’t meet that demand and they are frustrated.
They would certainly like to ship more.
And you would be happy to help them with your components.
What I say and I say kind of tongue and cheek is in this industry you don’t want to be the slowest gazelle.
Yes because you are competitors will happily ship the truck if you can’t.
Yes.
Well I’m talking about the supplier base for the customers because the OEMs – when you can’t deliver they are not a happy bunch and I think – And they are happy to express that with – They call me directly.
I know North America is one of – if in fact that you didn’t have the supply constraints for other components to build the truck.
The production volumes there would be higher it’s that simple.
Yes I think that’s right.
If you didn’t have production –.
China is a little bit different.
China is a little bit about a market developing.
Can you flesh that out? I know when you were in New York last week you talked a little bit about some of the regulations coming down from the government.
They were certainly getting closer to predict exactly what they would be a bit of a fool’s game but you are clearly getting closer; however once they slip the market develops very quickly? Right.
And I’ve seen it with components in China.
What – the indication that we have right now is that the regulations in China are indicating that they – the truck manufacturers will need to move to fully electronic engines to meet the emission regulations on January 1 2012.
This is the latest information I have.
And sometimes it’s different.
Our belief – it may be – they may be able to do it but our belief is that not all of the kind of pigs [ph] are aligned at this point and it may be a little bit later may be mid next – mid 2012 before this can happen.
And I think it might have something to do with the low sulphur fuel being available in all locations.
So you might even see something or certain regions have this changeover but at that point in time the engines are going to from mostly mechanical throttles to electronic throttles.
And we have the capacity and supply chain in China that’s been well developed over the last three or four years to be able to meet the demand for our customers over there and we have a couple of very large truck customers in China.
And that’s very very a significant market for us and we are looking forward to joining some of the effort.
One of the other areas that we are seeing in China is we are seeing a lot of demand for our products used in off-road equipment that’s being shipped outside of China.
And one of our biggest customers is an off-road customer right now and it’s because the demand that he has is for export shipments.
And the engines that they put in those off-road equipment cranes and wheel orders and so on are required to be fully electronic to meet the emission standards in Europe and the United States and elsewhere.
So that’s kind of what’s going on.
We are anxiously waiting the kind of the change in business and it should be good.
And it’s going to be an interesting kind of development in China I think.
I think I have said many times that the operations that we have in China and India and United States all look alike.
If you walked in the factory I’ve had a number of the executives that if some of our customers walk into factories and they say Pat they all look alike and it’s because we use the processes the same safety kind of requirements the same folks – the same five apps [ph] all the processes or quality processes are the same.
So it’s easy for us to run these businesses and make we do everything that’s possible to make quality products at kind of volumes that we need to make them at.
Our competitors for the most part in China are local kind of homegrown companies and we do not underestimate them.
There are many they always seem to be cheaper than we are.
But I would tell you that the day of reckoning becomes it’s not when you have to make 50 and submit them a sample; it’s when you have to make a 1000 of them and you have to make them every day and they all have to be right and the quality has to be spot on because people’s lives are at stake and I think that’s going to be the real test so who ultimately wins that market in the long run.
And I think we feel like we are pretty well positioned.
You guys have done a lot on the supply chain side in China over the last three or four years you’ve done a lot to build the customer base in China over the last three or four years.
If in fact the regulation starts to come down and I suspect it’s going to be regional first certain regions will be pushed forward first and other regions after that.
What happens to demand for electronic throttle controls? Well they’ll be – I mean I think over six ton they build I think their build rate this year is 700 000 or something like that? Significantly bigger than North America.
Significantly bigger significantly bigger and probably the biggest market in the world I think everybody has said that.
It will be an interesting phenomenon to see what happens.
But one of things that you have to realize there is that the average selling price of the product over there is significantly less than it is in other parts of the world because – and it’s not because the products are cheaper or we sell them for less or anything like that.
It’s the fact that the requirements and the specifications on the trucks over there; in some cases they are the specs that we have in North America or they are not the specs that we developed in Europe or even in some other markets is not to say they are all out that way but many of the trucks are a little bit lighter duty and have a shorter life span and don’t require sometimes the kind of $20 million cycle reliability that’s part of a US truck.
Is that true of the Chinese exports on the off-road? I don’t know.
I don’t think that’s particularly the case.
I don’t think it’s applicable there.
If you have talked about the – if you spend some time in the Chinese truck market the trucks are typically overloaded and beaten which then end their lives in a short period of time and they are traded in about two years or so or three years and they are kind of exhausted.
So I mean the off- road equipment I haven’t had any indication from any customers that it’s less or more reliable than anything else out there.
I’m sure it has its place and we’ll see how it develops.
I mean it’s kind of where – yes go ahead.
The third big market opportunity obviously is India and that’s different than North America it’s different than China there is some similarities between all three could you just talk about how that fleshes out over the next 18 24 months? Well it’s a little bit different in India from the standpoint that in India there is three or four – it’s a smaller market there is three or four major players as opposed to China which – there is probably eight or ten.
And so – and there is two really large players in the Indian market TATA and Ashok Leyland and then there is a selection of smaller parts but the lion’s share of the heavy truck market is dominated by TATA and Ashok Leyland.
And they are also moving progressively towards electronic engines to meet the emission standards and that – some of that is already taking place right now we are seeing it.
And so it may develop for us based on the way they move somewhat faster than the Chinese market.
A final question if you look at 2012 not a forecast but just the environment it looks like North America will be ramping up dramatically China could be turning on as it moves to electronic engines and India is going to start to develop stronger? Yes I mean that’s fair enough.
I mean that’s exactly what we are discussing in some of our internal meetings here is how do we make sure we are prepared to be able to meet that kind of demand and at the same time fully staff our engineering department to take care of all of the new opportunities we are seeing.
And so it’s a push pull kind prioritization for resources.
So it’s kind of a higher level problem but it’s problem all in its own in making sure that you do the right thing by the customers and the market and the business and the investors.
Thank you.
Okay Paul.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Taglich with Taglich Brothers.
Your line is now open.
Hi guys.
Hi Mike.
How are you? Looks like north of 350 000 trucks in North America moving up is boring you [ph].
I just have to follow up on a couple of these questions that were answered before.
The European market at recovery is how much bigger than it was this past quarter the (inaudible)? It’s hard to tell Mike it’s been a little bit chaotic in Europe.
There was a huge ramp-up and then a huge drop-off it’s kind of coming back to some place on equilibrium and we are not quite sure where it is to be honest with you.
But I think to grow from where it’s at right now but there is a little bit of recovery.
I mean that market got shutdown for boy; it was – of course it’s the biggest growing market right now but it was also the highest – the biggest market that was depressed when the economy got bad I mean it was terrible.
And it’s coming back towards equilibrium.
And does it have a little room to grow? My guess is yes.
All right.
I guess the cut that chase you some inherently at least in light of where you are expecting the beginning to get into China and the tailwind we are going to with the recovery in the US what sort of revenue levels this company going to be when the world is running at replacement value if you will and you’ve got the adoption of pedals in India and China at the level these should be? Mike I’m sorry that we just don’t give any kind of – that kind of guidance.
It’s not a question that we can answer.
And obviously it’s going to be better but we don’t give guidance.
Well what is the global ETC market if you had to do it that way – well how do you see the global ETC market to Europe now? Well I see it like this Mike the market in Europe – Non-automotive I should say.
No not the non-automotive.
The ETC market in general which I can easily talk about the US market – anything over 70 horsepower in the off-road or truck is going to have an ETS that’s pretty much given; almost the same thing in Europe over 100 horsepower whether it’s off-road or truck it’s going to have the ETC or electronic throttle of some sort.
My guess if you are out five years the same is going to be true pretty much in maybe not to the lowest horsepower levels but the same thing is going to be pretty much true in India and China.
And all of those markets are going to be subject to what the economy is I mean what’s the build rate in trucks and off-road equipment.
Even Russia – I mean as you know Mike we are selling our product into Russia on a regular basis and they went to ETCs over there.
And so – the Brazilian market is also using or the South American market including Brazil are using ETCs.
So I mean the tailwinds from a penetration standpoint is with us I mean it’s pushing ETCs forward. It’s going to be how well we manage that the market share and how well we do and how innovative we are against our competitors.
Right.
I mean that’s a global ETC market non-automotive into US is how big? Well Mike I have to sit down and do that on these.
I don’t think – there is a wild mix of products I mean you have ETCs that are in the $12 $13 range and you have ones that are in the $200 range and what that mix is and how it lays out that is kind of a complicated equation just I can’t give you something that’s even reasonable at this point.
Okay.
One more question that innovative gas pedal or the throttles that you –? The four speed the four speed deck pedal? Right.
With the feedback Right.
What initial vehicles is that going on? I can’t give the name of the manufacturer Mike.
But you have all the patents around that I own all the IP? We own IP on ours.
I mean it’s not to say that it couldn’t be done in a different way but we think we have a very good solution to the problem.
Alright.
And when will we know whether we are going somewhere with that new product offering? Well Mike I have not built any in production but are building products for test at this point.
I think it’s highly that this is going to be the future of ETCs especially on like the Class A trucks.
I would be very surprise if it was not.
And why do you say that? I say this because it’s a product that is similar in – when people came out with anti-light – I mean it was kind of an option for a little while I don’t think you can buy a vehicle today without it.
And when you are talking about people driving the speed breaks down the highway they want every safety and fuel economy improvements that they can get in those vehicles especially today with the cost of fuel.
And this is one thing that enhances those aspects of the vehicle.
Well you think that you don’t have clinical [ph] data if you will that shows that having a pedal that tells one when they should be in the gas or not gives somebody better gas mileage well intuitively it should? Mike with some of the things that are happening they are going to be able to – this is a coaching aid for drivers to encourage them to get better fuel economy and they are going to be – ultimately in the end I think that the sweeps are going to go to rewarding these drivers or incentizing them to get better fuel economy.
This is one way they can do it because this data is going to be available the fleet on how well the driver’s eyes and how good he is on fuel economy and he safe is and all these other kinds of things.
So I mean I don’t have any clinical data that says it.
I will tell you that the manufacturers of heavy trucks are very interested in a product like this right now.
Well it sounds a lot.
But how quickly could that penetrate market place.
I mean you are selling it for a lot more than your existing pedals? Well like anything like this.
It’s probably a year off.
Okay I would be really surprised if in 18 months we’re not in production for some manufacturer.
That’s good.
Thanks a lot.
That’s all I got.
Okay Mike.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Macky with AAD Capital.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my call.
Hi Scott.
How are you? Doing well.
Hey first just wanted to take a step back.
I know this has been discussed in length on prior calls but just to refresh my memory in kind of said expectations.
Give me an idea of just the start-up cost over the course of the last year or so associated with plant in India and then the extend that you’re talking about it maybe the incremental revenue expectations over call the next year or so from that plant in India.
Well over the last year but I would say what is gone through – pumped through expense is probably in the 400 000 range.
And then there is capital on top of that.
We probably have today 1.5 million in India somewhere in there between capital and expense.
Okay and then on the revenue side just from an incremental revenue perspective how should – I mean is there a way you can manage my expectations if you’re not (inaudible).
I’d tell you in our first year – I tried to be very telling in my comments.
We’re up 240% from last year at this point through six months.
And we expect to easily exceed $1 million in revenue this year and that’s on a with six months left to go.
Thank you.
That’s helpful.
I appreciate it.
But the potential is – we would not be there and we wouldn’t have spent the kind of money we spent.
We did think there was a very significant potential for the company there.
Understood.
Thank you for that.
Secondly I just wanted to ask quickly on capital allocation.
First I just wanted to quickly step back to the one-time dividend form last year-end.
And I guess just said thank you.
That was one of the most shareholder friendly moves that I’d seen in my experience.
And then with the announcement today in not going forward with an acquisition because you did not feel it prudent.
But going forward with acquisitions on the table I was hoping maybe you might set some expectations should the terms for the size of a deal that you might view the sort of leverage you might be willing to take in order to do a deal.
Well I would say this.
We would look at – obviously there’s a preferred size but we would look at acquisitions up to our size.
We’re probably not big on leverage.
We’d probably use stock and cash some kind of an arrangement like that.
Those would probably be our approaches but we’re open to looking at anything.
But if the business has to be synergistic and we have to have the ability to use the platform we have with the entities in India and China to be able to leverage that business up and make it perform using our sales and engineering and manufacturing talent in India and China and here in the US.
That’s what we really like.
And if we could find something that fit in those parameters we’re very conservative.
We’re not going to take on it on a debt do one of these deals.
It’s got to be at the right multiple and there’s got to be synergies and the right kind of culture.
Yes okay.
We just try to be – we’re trying to be as professional as we possibly can from a manufacturing standpoint and we’re trying to produce the highest quality products possible and we think that it differentiates us in the marketplace.
And we need to be able to do that for an acquisition too.
And thank you for that.
And one kind of detail oriented question if I may just in terms of trying to understand.
I know you can’t disclose the size of the military size that it looks like two particular platforms that there coming off or has been reduced and you’ve got one coming on.
It sounds like in fiscal fourth quarter as replacement.
I mean – sure I think about that as being a wash.
Will there be when it all said and done a step down in the military business? And we really kind of talking about round year relative cost cycles anyway? Well it’s not absolutely a huge piece of our business but it’s an important piece.
And we’ve been very successful over many years with the military.
And I don’t know the percentage but I think we have a very high percentage in there vehicles.
There’s a high Williams pedals in those vehicles.
Obviously I think that we’re going to be subjected to the same thing a lot of these people like (inaudible) and others are going to see that the markets going to be down a little bit going forward because I think the military is going to be cutback of this.
And we’ll obviously enjoy the spare parts certainly.
But to the extent that the military cuts back on buying these vehicles we’re going to be affected by it.
But it’s not the most important part of our business but it is piece we like very well.
Okay thank you very much for answering my question.
I appreciate your time.
Yes.
There are no further questions at this time.
I turn the call back over to the presenters.
Well if there are no other questions this concludes our second quarter conference call and I’d like to thank everyone for attending today.
Bye.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
My name is Adrian and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Williams Controls Hosts Third Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Dennis Bunday Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone and welcome to our third quarter 2011 conference call.
Before we begin you should note that the following discussions and responses to questions reflect management's views as of today August 4 2011 and may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements.
Information concerning risk factors and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in our filings with the SEC including our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K our 2011 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our fiscal 2011 current reports on Form 8-K.
Specific factors that may cause such a difference include but are not limited to availability of adequate working capital domestic and international competitive pressures increased governmental regulations increased costs of materials and labor and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO Pat Cavanagh for his comments on the quarter.
Thanks Dennis.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fiscal third quarter investor conference call.
Obviously it’s been a very interesting day in the market.
This morning we released our financial results for the third fiscal quarter of 2011.
Our sales for the third fiscal quarter were $16.8 million up 22% over the same quarter last year.
Sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2011 increased $7 million or 18% to $45.1 million from the comparable period last year.
Net income in the third quarter was $1.5 million or $0.20 per diluted share compared to net income of $903 000 or $0.12 per diluted share for the corresponding quarter of fiscal 2010.
Net income for the nine months ended June 30<sup>th</sup> 2011 was $2.4 million or $0.32 per diluted share compared to net income of $866 000 or $0.12 per diluted share for the same nine-month period ending in fiscal 2010.
From a revenue standpoint compared to the first nine months of last year our Asia Pacific sales were up 25% our European sales were up 43% and our North American sales were up 10%.
Within Asia China was up 13% and Indian sales were up a 140% from a small base Japanese and Korean sales were also up as a result of new program wins last year.
Sales in India in fiscal 2011 should easily exceed $1 million up from full-year 2010 sales of $609 000.
As of this month we’re now in serial production for three major Indian OEMs from our new facility in Pune India.
While we remain optimistic for our growth prospects in China and India these markets also remain highly competitive and very challenging.
As it’s widely known the retail price of a new heavy truck in China or India is only a fraction of that of an equivalent truck in North America or Europe.
The specifications for our products and many other components in the truck reflect the lower cost of these vehicles.
While it has not been officially announced we expect the Chinese Government will delay implementation of the new Euro 4 emission standards in China until mid 2012 from the beginning of 2012.
In China our truck sales were down year-to-date compared to last year by 25% due to a truck inventory overhang and slower truck sales in that market.
In Europe truck sales for the first nine months were up 76% from the same period last year.
And in North America our truck sales were up by 33% compared to last year.
Our global off-highway sales were also up 16% from the record sales in this market last year.
At this point approximately 30% of our business is tied to the North American heavy truck market so I thought I’d make a couple of comments about the outlook in this market.
Calendar year-to-date through June net Class 8 orders have totaled a 163 000 units compared to 70 000 units during the same period last year.
The backlog at the end of June was over a 125 000 units and this backlog is a 142% higher than at the same time last year and it’s at levels not seen since 2006.
All of our North American customers are working hard to accelerate the build rates from the current levels.
As I am sure you have heard in the truck OEM investor calls shortages of certain components are impacting truck production.
I wanted to ensure assure our investors that our proactive approach to component sourcing combined with our lean manufacturing philosophy has resulted in the highest level of on-time deliveries to our customers in the company’s history.
Current industry forecasts project an increase in daily build rates to 26% from now until the end of the calendar year.
In the first six months of this year a 114 000 Class 8 trucks were build.
The forecasted production rate for the second half of the year is a 136 000 units.
This would result in Class 8 total production for calendar year 2011 of nearly 250 000 units.
In calendar year 2012 the industry is projected to build 290 000 units to 310 000 units about a 20% improvement over this year’s levels.
I think there is some risk in this number if the economy does not show some improvement in the second half of the year.
While the Class 8 market gets much of the attention the Class 5 through Class 7 medium-duty truck market is also important to Williams.
The medium-duty truck market in North America this year is showing a 43% year-over-year increase compared to 2010 but is projected to grow at a more muted rate of 5% in 2012.
To give you some perspective in 2006 there were over 275 000 Class 5 through Class 7 trucks built in North America whereas projections for this year are only for a 196 000 units.
The Class 5 through Class 7 truck market is still affected by the deeply depressed residential housing and construction markets.
I will now turn the call over to Dennis Bunday to discuss our financial performance in the quarter.
Dennis.
Thank you Pat.
As Pat stated net income for the quarter was $1.5 million or $0.20 per diluted share compared to $903 000 or $0.12 per share in the third quarter of 2010.
And for the first nine months was $2.4 million or $0.32 per diluted share compared to $866 000 or $0.12 per share in the first nine months of last year.
Although there were no one-time or unusual charges in the current third quarter there were charges in the first nine months of 2011 as well as in the third quarter and first nine months of 2010.
As we discussed in last quarter’s call the 2011 year-to-date numbers include an after-tax charge of approximately $395 000 or $0.05 per share related to a potential acquisition that we decided to terminate during the second quarter while in due diligence and a legal settlement of a long outstanding claim against the company.
The 2010 third quarter and first nine months included an after-tax gain of approximately $290 000 or $0.04 per share from the sale of stock obtained in the settlement of an environmental claim.
For the nine months of 2010 this gain was more than offset by an after-tax charge of approximately $485 000 or $0.07 per share for the settlement of the Cuesta class action lawsuit.
To summarize when excluding all of these one-time items third quarter 2011 diluted earnings per share of $0.20 with compared to 2010 third quarter EPS of $0.08.
On a year-to-date basis the adjusted EPS would be $0.37 for 2011 or more than double the $0.14 for 2010.
For the quarter the basic EPS share count was 7 300 277 and the diluted EPS share count was 7 503 313.
At quarter-end we had 7 302 339 shares outstanding.
Third quarter 2011 gross profits were $5.7 million a 40% improvement over last year’s $4.1 million.
For this year’s third quarter gross margins were 33.7% sales compared to 29.4% in the third quarter of last year.
For the first nine months gross profits improved to $14.3 million or 31.8% gross margin on $45.1 million of sales compared to $11 million or 28.8% on $38.1 million of sales for the nine months of 2010.
The margin improvements for both the third quarter and first nine months were largely due to higher sales volumes to distribute fixed overhead costs but also due to lower freight and warranty costs.
You may recall that last year we were incurring higher freight costs as some suppliers had difficulty meeting accelerated delivery schedules.
Those issues were largely resolved this year.
And although sales volumes had increased freight costs have actually decreased over $100 000 on a quarter-over-quarter basis.
Additionally warranty costs decreased $42 000 and $417 000 for the third quarter and first nine months of 2011.
The corresponding periods in 2010 included higher cost related to a specific warranty claim for one customer.
Overall we consider the run rates we experience for freight and warranty during this third quarter to be at more normal level as compared with the higher amounts incurred last year.
We were starting to see some pricing pressure on raw materials.
However we have been able to manage this situation and overall material pricing had a small negative impact on the quarter.
Some components such as rare-earth magnets have increased rapidly and significantly.
We feel that ultimately worldwide supplies of the material used to produce these magnets will improve and the pricing will return to more normal ranges.
But in the meantime to partially buffer against this spike we have secured up to a nine-month safety stock of critical components at lower prices.
Overhead costs increased for both the third quarter and first nine months of 2011.
As we expected directly variable overhead items such as shipping and production supply and volume related business interruption and insurance premiums generally increased in line with sales.
Additionally India start-up expenses and the higher labor cost to fill positions left vacant during the economic downturn contributed to the increase.
Health insurance premiums are also higher than last year.
Overall overhead expenses were up on a dollar-for-dollar basis for the quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2011 but were lower in each period on a percentage of sale basis.
Engineering sales and administrative expenses during the quarter were up $306 000 from the third quarter of 2010 and up $616 000 for the first nine months excluding the $600 000 in one-time acquisition and legal costs in the year-to-date numbers.
The increases in both periods were primarily due to start-up costs for our India facility and increased headcounts for new engineering positions to meet new customer and program demands and to fill some open positions that were left vacated during the economic downturn.
As an example of our increased number of programs we have more off-road customers and programs worldwide than at anytime in our history and our off-road sales this quarter were a record for the company.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow our net cash position was essentially at a breakeven at the end of the third quarter with cash of $1 million offset by $900 000 outstanding on our revolver.
EBITDA which consists of operating income depreciation and the noncash charge for stock option expense contributed $4.7 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2011.
On a net cash flow basis this year which is total cash receipt less cash disbursements we have used approximately $3 million of cash.
Cash uses included increases in accounts receivables and inventory payments to our pension plans capital expenditures and payment of the quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per share.
Accounts receivable increased $1.8 million primarily due to the higher sales volume within the quarter with cash collections and day sales outstanding remaining constant.
Inventories increased $3.1 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2011.
In addition to inventories increasing in line with the increased sales we are also selectively increasing crucial inventory items to ensure continuity of deliveries for our customers as orders ramp up.
Lastly inventories have increased from approximately $600 000 at our India facility ahead of the start of regular production.
Accrued expenses were down from the end of fiscal 2010 primarily due to the payment of a previously accrued warranty item with one customer.
Depreciation and amortization for the third quarter was $598 000 and noncash stock option expense was $214 000.
CapEx for the quarter was $581 000 and $2.2 million year-to-date.
We anticipate our capital spending to be approximately $3 million for the fiscal 2011.
We paid our first-ever quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share in May of this year and today we announced the third quarter regular and quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share payable on August 25 to shareholders of record as of August 18.
This concludes our formal comments.
We would now like to turn the meeting over to questions.
(Operator Instructions).
The first question comes from the line of John Nobile.
Your line is open.
Well good afternoon everyone.
Hi John.
Good afternoon John.
Hi.
We had a crazy day in the markets today although your stock held up rather well considering [inaudible].
But I wanted to ask you why – you had mentioned that the China Euro 4 standards being implemented in China was not until now mid 2012 and I think they were actually enforce since about 2005 I guess China is taking a while.
But usually there is pre-buying ahead of the enforcement of emission standards.
Right.
Do you anticipate obviously pre-buying in the China market before mid 2012? And if you do like a quarter or two ahead or could we even start seeing it now? Well first of all John I’d like to say that it hasn’t been officially announced.
Our sales team over there has indications from some of the OEMs that this is a likely change that they’re going to move it out to mid 2012 and it’s been moved several times as you know.
I think that if the customer base in China believes that it’s really going to happen I would expect that there will be some pre-buy.
I don’t think it’s going to be large however but I think yet there will be some.
Okay.
And I would expect it would probably start somewhere between five months and six months before they actually believe it’s going to happen.
But if they think it’s going to move – it’s going to move to the end of 2012 all bets are off.
All right it’s been moved already.
Yes it’s been moved several times.
Okay.
And I’m fully aware; I think we brought this up in the last call about the part shortages.
I know that there is no problem at Williams at meeting any anticipated demand but my question is how much longer do you believe the NAFTA truck market will be constrained with the part shortages? I mean there still is a constraint on that and I’m not sure if we’re just about over that or do you anticipate another quarter or two of this? Well the projection remains as I said in the call there is an increase in the second half of the year and the OEMs still ramping up.
We expected that by the end of the year the daily production rate is going to be up about 26% from where it is today and that’s what we’re seeing in a lot of the forecast.
But I don’t expect that – I think it’s going to take at least six months to remove some of the constraints in the system.
Okay.
But that that obviously wouldn’t be in concert with the 26% increase.
I mean you feel that maybe we might not see a 26% increase over the – Well I’m saying this John I think my comments were that we expected in the second half of the year to see about – the production rate through the first half I think what did I say was a 114 000 units were built in the first half of the year Class 8.
And the second half we’re expecting about 136 000 units.
And during that period you’re going to start seeing higher daily build rates what we expect that we’re up at the end of the year about 26% higher than we are today so.
And next year in 2012 we’re looking at somewhere around – assuming the economy holds which is the big question mark at this point we’re expecting 290 000 units to 310 000 units.
So there is going to have to be a continued building but I don’t think we’re going to get up to a full production rates for six months or so.
Okay.
Just one other question I was curious if you can give us a sense of how significant that two new India programs are? I know you didn’t put any numbers in there but I was hoping you might hint to what this actually means in that market.
Well I would guess – the two programs together will obviously be over $1 million.
I don’t want to speculate $1 million a year.
I don’t want to speculate on the total volume.
I know some of our competitors do that but I’ll just say they are significant programs with significant manufacturers and we expect sales with those programs as they ramp up to over $1 million a year.
And currently you’re at about $1 million pace in India I believe? Probably higher than that but we will do $1 million there this year with only – with not full production.
Remember John we only started production over there I think in May – April May and we’ve got new programs since then and it’s on a ramp right now and – but we’ll finish this year at $1 million or more.
Okay.
So it’s relatively significant obviously what we’re looking at as far as the two new Indian programs.
Yes it’s going to take us – At the levels right now I’m seeing.
Yes.
Yes it’s going to take us two three years to get to full production over there for all the programs.
We’ve been very successful over there and our plant is a real show place.
I had one of our Board members over there for the grand opening that we had and customers were doing a lot of customer tours and it’s gotten a lot of reviews.
It’s a real first-grade manufacturing facility and we were quite pleased with it and it’s been a pretty smooth transition to the production over there.
I’m sure it’s going to be a relatively big market in the short time.
And this is again the extra million from the two new awards we’re talking about beginning in 2013 correct? I think that’s right.
Okay thank you very much.
Thanks John.
(Operator Instructions).
And we have a question from Peter Knitz [ph] who is a stockholder.
Your line is open.
Gentlemen I recognize the opening of both China and India do you still have significant manufacturing capacity in the United States? Yes we do.
Second question – Our approach Peter is primarily to serve the Asian customers from our manufacturing facility in China and the Indian base from our Indian plant.
Okay.
If you had some sort of economic or social catastrophe type problem in any one of your three plants could you ramp up the other two to cover your needs? Absolutely.
That’s been our plan from the get-go.
Okay.
We have capacity in the United States and we have capacity in China.
Not as much capacity in India because it’s relatively new.
I think that we have four cells in that plant right now.
And it probably couldn’t carry the load of either one of these plants but obviously it would take some time but we have the capability of doing this.
Thank you.
And I might also see Peter that our manufacturing processes methodologies are exactly the same at all three of our plants all of our testing equipment our management equipment everything is all tied in with one central computer.
So if we lost for example Suzhou we could bring that up in Portland in very very short order vice-versa this type of thing.
So we are – we do have a real advantage in that.
Although for a small company we do have redundant productive capacity without a doubt.
It is part of our sales philosophy when we’re talking to customers that we have this kind of capability to be able to serve them either from Asia or India or the United States.
That’s excellent.
Last question I had was I looked back at the financial highlights of ‘05 ’06 and ’07 and it appears that the net income in relationship to sales were significantly higher on a percentage basis than it is – it looks like it’s going to be this year.
Is there some reason for that or –? Well first of all there is some one-time charges that Dennis outlined in his earlier comments in the first and second quarter.
I think it was almost $500 000 that we had in a acquisition that we terminated in due diligence along with the settlement of an employee claim that had been outstanding for about seven years.
And there has been some trends in the marketplace.
I mean when I talked earlier about the Class 5 Class 6 and Class 7 that market – I mean the volumes in Class 6 were much much higher than they are now.
I mean we’re looking at in the Class 5 Class 6 and Class 7 market which is important to us also about a 150 000 units compared to – boy it was 300 000 units in 2006 in addition to the 368 000 units in the US market.
Where we’ve grown our business has been in with new customers and new regions in China and India and others.
In many of those cases as I said the trucks are at half the price that they are in the United States and Europe and the prices of the components that go in are much less.
So all of those combined obviously our margins are similar but the margin dollars are not when you’re producing that many more products in those markets.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And there are no further questions at this time.
I’ll turn the call back over to the presenters.
Well thank you.
This concludes our third quarter conference call.
We’d like to thank everyone for attending today.
Bye now.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Martina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Williams Controls Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2011 Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis Bunday Chief Financial Officer of Williams Controls.
You may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter and year end fiscal 2011 conference call.
Before we begin you should note that the following discussions and responses to questions reflect management's views as of today December 8 2011 and may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Information concerning risk factors and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in our filings with the SEC including our 2010 annual report on Form 10-K our fiscal 2011 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our fiscal 2011 current reports on Form 8-K.
Specific factors that may cause such a difference include but are not limited to availability of adequate working capital domestic and international competitive pressures increased governmental regulations increased costs of materials and labor and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO Pat Cavanagh for his comments on the quarter.
Thank you Dennis.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to our fiscal fourth investor conference call.
This morning we released our financial results for our 2011 fourth quarter and year end.
We are holding our call today from the New York Stock Exchange where we had the opportunity to ring the opening bell yesterday.
We move from the NASDAQ to the NYSE Amex because we believe that for our stock the NYSE Amex platform may reduce spreads and increase trading volume making it easier for investors to own our stock.
Sales for the year ended September 30 2011 increased $9.6 million or 18.4% to $61.9 million from $52.3 million for the comparable period last year.
Net income for the year ended September 30 2011 was $3.3 million or $0.45 per diluted share compared to net income of $1.4 million or $0.19 per diluted share for the year ended September 30 2010.
There were number of one-time costs in both fiscal ’10 and fiscal ’11 and Dennis will cover those later in his call later in this call.
Over the last five years we have made a conservative effort to broaden our product offering and expand our international footprint.
Overall in fiscal ’11 55% of our products were sold in United States 9% in Canada and Mexico 22% in Europe and 14% in Asia.
Also in fiscal ’11 over $3 million in sales came from new products introduced in the last year.
We expect to see similar results going forward based on over $18 million of new business that we won in the last two fiscal years.
Many of these new products wins were for off-highway customers where sales were at a record level this year $14 million or 24% of our total sales.
In fiscal ’11 we were specially pleased with our new bulldozer pedal systems and power armrest adjusters where those products contributed over a $1 million in new sales at the key off-highway OEM.
We also launched another rocker pedal system for major agricultural OEM which will contribute the meaningful sales in fiscal ’13.
We recently introduced our new state-of-the-art joystick systems and have them in the field under customer evaluation.
So far we have received very good feedback from our existing customers and potential customers.
We expect to start selling these products in fiscal ’12 because of the sophistication and software contained in these products the selling price is substantially higher than our existing throttle pedals.
In fiscal ’11 20% of our business was tied directly to production of medium and heavy trucks in North America.
So I thought to make a couple of comments about the outlook in this market.
In calendar 2012 the industry is projected to build 295 000 Class 8 trucks up from approximately 250 000 in calendar year 2011.
I think there is some risk in this number the kiosk in Europe continues but the backlog of Class 8 trucks are strong fleet profits are up used truck prices are firm exports are strong and the current fleet is old.
Class 8 trucks are normally owned by fleets that transport goods for leaving.
While the Class 8 market gets a lot of attention the North American Class 5 through 7 medium duty vehicle market is also very important player.
In 2010 medium demand was made up of three components medium trucks of about 68% of the market school and buses at about 22% and recreational vehicles at 10%.
The medium duty market in North America this year is showing a 40% year-over-year increase compared to 2010 at 165 000 vehicles.
The next year’s production is expected to increase to 176 000 vehicles.
The Class 5 through 7 truck market is still affected however by the deeply depressed residential housing and construction markets.
Typically the customers that buy these vehicles do something else for leaving and they have the luxury of delaying purchases of these trucks.
I think it’s significant to note that in comparison to the last NAFTA truck market peak in 2007 -- 2006 which saw production of 650 000 units of the Class 5 through 8 vehicles market projections this calendar year are ending up at 416 000 units or down 36% compared to calendar year 2006.
I’d like to make a few comments about the regions we serve also.
The North American market grew 13% in fiscal ’11 and was driven by a rebound in the truck market where our sales improved 36% that was primarily because of the Class 8 heavy truck sales.
Also contributing to growth in the North American market was off-highway sales which reached a record level in fiscal ’11 for us we expect to see continued growth in the North American market in ’12 fiscal ’12 as heavy truck sales will continue to grow fuel by strong backlog increasing fleet profitability stronger used-truck pricing and increasing demand by the fleets to upgrade their vehicles.
We also expect continued growth in off-highway market in fiscal ’12 with the introduction of new products and improving worldwide demand.
The European market for us grew by 35% in fiscal ’11 as a result of a 59% improvement in sales to the heavy truck customers in Europe.
This was largely a result of the market finally working off the heavy truck inventory over hang as the result of the core 2009 and the sales to new truck customers in Russia and Turkey.
We expect sales in Europe will be flat next year as a result of the present economic turmoil offset however by the grow -- our growing sales in Russia and Turkey.
Our Asian sale grew by 19% in fiscal ’11 off-highway sales increased by 31% primarily in China as a result of the further penetration of electronic engine in the off-highway market applications and two new Chinese customers.
Asian truck sales increased primarily as a result of improving market conditions and new platform wins in Korea and Japan.
In fiscal ’12 we expect to see continued growth as a new Japanese truck OEM ramps up volumes on the newly introduced vehicle in late -- that we introduce NAFTA in fiscal ’11 and to lesser extent two new customers in China.
In China truck sales were down 22% from last year as a result of large inventory overhang and the slowing economy.
We expect the economy in China to remain sluggish through March of next year.
Firstly I’m somewhat frustrated that Chinese does not move faster in implementing mission regulations for heavy trucks that would drive increase use of our electronic films.
The OEMs are telling us that because of the difficulty in changing over the low sulfur -- low sulfur diesel fuel that are used in these engines it’s likely -- it’s unlikely that the government mandate change over in mid-2012 will be met.
It’s more likely to be delayed another six months but there is no official word at this point.
This is potentially one of the biggest growth drivers for us in China.
I’m sure it’s going to happen but it just a question of when.
In the meantime we are introducing a couple of new products in the first calendar quarter design specifically for that market which will improve our penetration.
I’m so much surprise that in fiscal ’11 our off-highway sales exceeded our truck sales.
However to a large extent a portion of this is driven by exports of off-highway equipment out of China.
I thought I would talk about India separately and as you know we opened the factory there in January of 2011.
We currently have over 40 people in the plant and we began serial production in late fiscal ’11.
By the end of December we’ll be producing over 170 pieces a day six days a week.
We have a customer plant ramp up to over 300 a day by the end of the first quarter of 2012 as we replace the competitor on the light vehicle programs of a major truck OEM and another customer light duty programs starts ramping up.
Our sales this year grew to over $1 million in India from $600 000 last year and we expected to more than double this level in fiscal ’12.
The Indian operation has been a bit of a drag on our earnings due to our startup strategy which I should explain.
We are very very careful and conservative when it comes to the quality and the reliability of our products and we try to eliminate as many of the variable as possible in new plant startup like this.
So when we developed our manufacturing plant for India similar to what we did in China we decided to startup production with parts supply from existing suppliers that have a proven track record.
These vendors are outside of India.
So the costs of application and the freight add approximately 25% to the costs of those components.
Over the last several months since we launch production we’ve been working diligently at identifying and validating suppliers using our focus sourcing methodology for the majority of the components that we’ll be using in India.
It also includes a plan to manufacture our sensors in Indian plant.
In India our strategy has worked and our production startup has been very very smooth and our reputation as a premier supplier in that market is building rapidly.
So far in India we have won light vehicle programs with major Indian manufacturers and one large European manufacturer in addition to the heavy truck programs at the two largest Indian manufacturers.
I’ll now turn the call over to Dennis to discuss our financial performance in the quarter and the year.
Dennis? Thank you Pat.
Net income for the fourth quarter was $1 million or $0.13 per diluted share compared to $510 000 or $0.07 per share in last year's fourth quarter.
On a pre-tax basis fourth quarter net income improved $553 000 last year to $1.3 million this year.
Looking at the full results net income was $3.3 million or $0.45 per share compared to $1.4 million or $0.19 per share last year.
There were several one-time unusual items in fiscal 2010 which largely offset each other.
However included in this years results were after-tax charges of approximately $395 000 or $0.05 per share related to a potential acquisition that we decided to determinate during the second quarter while in due diligence and a legal settlement in the second quarter of a long outstanding claim against the company.
Looking at a sequential comparison of the third and fourth fiscal quarters of this year sales were essentially unchanged.
However pre-tax operating income was down $780 000 or $0.07 per share after-tax an unfavorable sales mix accounted for $200 000 of the difference.
The third quarter sales mix was better than normal and the fourth quarter was worst than normal.
We had a one-time unfavorable inventory adjustment of $165 000 in the fourth quarter.
Labor and overhead were higher as we continue to ramp-up India and incurred over time to respond the inconsistent customer delivery requirements in the U.S.
and Europe.
Finally component purchase prices were approximately $100 000 higher in the fourth quarter than the third quarter.
For the current quarter the basic EPS share count was 7 302 339 and the fully diluted share count was 7 480 222.
For the full year the basic EPS share count was 7 296 490 and fully diluted EPS share count was 7 471 215.
At year end we had 7 302 339 shares outstanding.
Gross profits for the quarter were $4.9 million or 29% of sales compared to $3.8 million or 27% of sales in last year's fourth quarter.
For the full year gross profits were $19.2 million or 31% of sales compared to $14.8 million or 28% of sales in fiscal 2010.
Although in the reported results gross margin percentages improved for both the quarter and full year the comparative fiscal 2010 gross profit were depressed by costs associated with higher than normal freight charges and settlement of the long outstanding warranty issue of one customer.
Excluding those charges of 2010 gross margin percentages were about even at 30% in both years fourth quarters and 31% for both full years.
This years gross margins in both the quarter and year-to-date were helped by the higher sales volumes to distribute fixed cost over were negatively impacted by higher material costs and the startup in India combined with the currently high component source of costs in that region.
We are starting to see some pricing pressures on raw materials the most significant price increase in the rare earth magnets.
The pricing for these magnets increased rapidly and significantly during the year as we anticipated this was an overheated market and during the spring we purchased inventory of these critical components of oil prices to insulate us from the price spikes.
In the last quarter we saw some improvement in supply and moderate prices for these magnets.
We feel that alternatively pricing will return to more normal levels although likely at somewhat higher ranges.
Additionally we have seen some pricing pressures in plastic die caps and other material costs.
Overhead increased for both the fourth quarter and for the full year on dollar basis compared to last year but when lower in each period on the percentage of sales basis.
In addition to the India start-up costs directly durable overhead items such as shipping and production supply and volume related business interruption and insurance premiums increased but that increase was generally in line with sales.
Fourth quarter operating expenses which include engineering selling and administrative costs were $3.4 million up slightly over last years fourth quarter of $3.3 million.
Operating expenses for the full year were $14.2 million compared to $12.8 in 2010 a significant portion of the increase for the year-to-year was due to the terminated acquisition costs and legal settlement.
Costs were also higher due to the start-up of our Indian facility and increase headcounts for new engineering positions filled late in 2010 to address the higher number of projects and to fill some open positions that were vacated during the economic downturn of 2009 and 2010.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
We are at slight net borrowing position at year end with cash of $1.3 million and borrowing on our revolving credit facility $1.6 million.
EBITDA which consist of operating income depreciation and the non-cash charge for stock option expenses $8.1 million for the year almost doubled fiscal 2010 EBITDA of $4.2 million.
At year end we had borrowing availability under our revolver of $5.5 million which we believe when combined with our cash balance is adequate for our foreseeable needs.
On a net cash flow basis we used approximately $3.3 million of cash in the year cash uses include increase in account receivable and inventory payments to our pension plans capital expenditures and the payment of the two quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per share each.
During the year receivables grew by $2 million which is directly in line with the higher sales levels.
Day sales outstanding have remained constant since last year.
Inventories increase $3.8 million during the year.
In addition to inventories increase in line with the increase sales we also increase crucial inventory items to ensure continuity of deliveries to our customers and to protect again some rapid price escalation in certain components such as the rare earth magnets.
Inventories also increased due to some logistics challenges by one of our principal customer.
Lastly inventories in India have increased approximately $650 000 as part of the start-up of that facility.
Overall however inventories are too high and we are focused on reducing inventory levels.
Our target is to get inventories down about $1.5 million in the first half of 2012.
Depreciation and amortization for the third quarter was $556 000 and non-cash stock option expense was $184 000.
CapEx for the quarter was $560 000 and $2.8 million for the year.
We anticipate our capital spending to be approximately $2.5 million in fiscal 2012.
We paid our second quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share in July and to-date we announced the third regular quarterly dividend $0.12 per share payable on December 28th to shareholders of record as of December 19th.
Although we were hurt by some one-time costs and mix issues during the quarter we still believe we have an excellent long-term platform to support growth.
We are well-positioned globally with key customers worldwide.
We have a solid product line and joystick have the potential to expand that offering significantly.
Our costs today in India are higher than it will be on a longer term basis but that is to ensure safe successful launch of products in that market.
Also keep in mind our first fiscal quarter is traditionally a slowest of the year with fewer shipping days as many of our customers are on reduce shipping -- on reduce schedule during the holidays.
I would expect sales to be slightly down from our fourth quarter to the mid $60 million range in our first fiscal quarter next year.
Taxes will be higher in fiscal 2012 of the tax holiday we have enjoyed for the last five years in China expires this year and we go to the normal tax rate of 25% in that country.
This concludes our formal comments.
We would now like to turn the meeting over to questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of John Nobile from Taglich Brothers.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning fellows.
Thank you.
How are you John today? Pretty good.
Thank you.
First question on the NAFTA market I know for the quarter you mentioned it was up 43%? And I’m just curious now if you give an idea what even on the quarterly basis not for the full year what the NAFTA sales make up of the total sales margin? Well I think what I said in my comments John was that last year the NAFTA production this doesn’t go into spare parts and all that but the actual NAFTA production was about 20% of our sales.
Last year meaning ’11 or 2010.
2011.
20 okay so 20% of sales.
Okay.
Production now there is always parts and spares and all that kind of thing that add additionally to that but about 20% is the production.
Okay.
But basically over the last few years you would say… That’s the one yeah that’s the one that variable with the Class 5 through 8 production.
Okay.
And approximately 30% of the fiscal 2011 growth was from new product introductions.
So I could back out of that that existing product sales… What did you say John you said 30… 30% the press release says approximately 30% of our fiscal 2011 sales growth came from… I think it’s a $3 million isn’t it? Yeah.
The question is actually I got… …quarter okay okay.
Fiscal 2011 30% of that growth so at least fiscal year was from new product introductions.
So if I back out of that looking at… Yeah.
… existing product sales up about 30% okay back out of the 18.% growth which 30% was from new product introductions so 30%.
I’m just curious if you see pent-up demand as a reason for existing product sales that possibly grow at greater rate in fiscal 2013? Well I don’t know John I mean that’s pretty hard predict.
I mean it depends I mean you see some fluctuation that with the difference between aftermarket products and production products.
But there is a very significant backlog at this point especially in the Class 8 market and the customers our customers are going to be working that off going forward.
So I guess the answer is I don’t see a big pent-up demand there that’s going to change kind of our outlook.
Okay.
But I mean there is a significant backlog I would imagine looking at say existing product sales your electronic hand controls up 13% with that kind of significant backlog I would assume maybe even greater than it was last year that these sales would be had a greater rate in 2013 I just kind of make… There is the backlog that mean typically look at pretty clear evidence of it the one in the truck market.
And the customers have been very reluctant to expand capacity to any significant extent right.
They don’t want to so what they are trying to do is they managing the backlog let say yeah they are trying to schedule things in as close as possible and they are working that backlog off a little bit but it also a function of what the new orders are.
So I don’t see any -- to any extent I don’t see a larger much larger rate of production there’s going to be some fine tuning but like the production they have ramped up over the last year and to the extent that we’re going to take we are going to build some more product they are already in pretty good run rate to reach that level.
Okay.
And just one final question I can pack up actually you have time in the short fall which if there is anything new that with regard to the forced feedback title I’m just curious if it still not track the launch in 2012 I think you might have mentioned this on the previous call but you… Yeah.
I have John and that’s an exciting new product.
We are still working on it.
We’re introducing a number of different customers.
We are scheduling very selective meetings at OEMs to introduce that technology.
And generally this is kind of on the leading edge and we are excited we think that it’s a technology that is going to be well adopted in the future by some of these OEMS.
Okay.
And regard to the full fiscal year first half second half so we pin-point one this might be introduced? I would look into later half of the year and it’s one of those kinds of things John this is a longer term program and it’s not likely that I’m going to go into high serial production in 2012 it’s likely that we’ll build units they will be on some test with OEMs it’s a real system kind of product where the customer actually have to come up with some electronics and software that work with that pedal to meet the results.
Now these units are up so we have some units on test now.
We expect to put more units on test.
But I’m thinking this is going to be year so out before we reached the point where we going to do introductions with that product.
So we are going to we have capability of building it and we are going to build it and we are going start these programs with our customers.
Okay.
So I could safely say by 2013 fiscal 2013 we should see… You’ll see… … topline accretion… Yeah.
… from this? Yeah.
In ’13 you will see.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Berry from Lane Five Capital.
Matthew your line is open.
Hello gentlemen.
How are you? I’m good.
How are you? Hi Matthew.
Good.
Good.
And good fun yesterday.
Thanks for inviting us.
It’s a great day.
Okay.
Lots of fun.
Yeah.
Okay.
So guys couple of things I -- as I was sort of little bit trying to get a sense of the mix that in truck and off-road and I have to make sneaking suspicion that that’s not by accident.
Is there a way you could break down roughly NAFTA Europe and Asia in terms of truck and off-road the mix? Well we have that data I don’t know we could do it on the phone.
Okay.
I mean some of my -- if you go back in some of my comments I kind of talk about the North American off-road.
I don’t know that we talked about the European off-road but we do talk about the Asian off-road and I think there are in my comments.
I’ll tell you what I can talk to you afterwards about that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
And I might just add.
You have it Dennis.
Well I have something but that I might add that of our off-road I think I understood what you are getting that but of our off-road business the NAFTA is still the preponderance of that and Asia it has grown and it’s probably 20% plus minus of our total off-road business still the largest portion of the NAFTA but and NAFTA is only growing nicely but we’ve also seen the growth in Asia and Europe is probably about 10% of that.
Yeah.
Off-road is that what you are getting at? That is what I’m getting at.
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
So the other question guys when I look back we were I was little bit surprise and by the gross margin number that we got this time I know gross margin can jump around a little bit? Yeah.
But I was expecting some a little bit higher and obviously it’s not entirely predictable but is obviously there’s thing going to go on in terms of India and China in the Cuesta.
Is there when I look back let say 2004 2005 when you guys were growing quite rapidly and you’re getting up to similar levels yourselves you are at now you were putting at 32% to 33% 34% gross margins and so I was but obviously the product mix was different and India and China wasn’t really there.
So what was the and can you give me a sense of on the underlying basis now sort of excluding India and China where your gross margin at? Yeah.
Now I’m going to give you some approximation so we don’t have exactly with India out of here but I would say that without India we are in the low 30s on our margin.
Okay.
India is sitting us from two ways first of all we have the overhead in there because we are starting up and that’s quite frankly the overhead has spread relatively smaller sales volume because we were startup.
The second thing is Pat talked about is we are still searching components with our reliable established clients until we give that use of product base establish and that was not by accident we really mention that we could have a good solid launch and we did want to just do start-up and localization at the same and that costs us 25 percentage points let say plus minus in higher material costs.
So the India is a relatively I guess I would say significant drag on earnings this year.
One thing I want to point out about that Matt I don’t know if I made this very clear in my comments.
We are in a very we understand how to do this kind of sourcing out and we’ve done this in China and we are doing exactly the same thing in India and kind of the real focus sourcing strategy and once we get our plan established we got up in production then we put a conservative effort on finding the right kinds of vendors that can produce products day in and day out for us.
Yeah.
We have identified those guys we actually have we’ve actually two of the number of them and we are in the process of validating their components right now and this also includes our sensors for this specific at least the high volume products in India that we are going to be manufacturing there and the components that go into those sensors.
We expect to have this all done by May of 2012 at that point it takes 25% out of the costs of the components that we use in the product which is going to make a big difference in our margins in India but we are willing to take that risk to start that up with the we just did not want to have with this major OEMs over there and the high volumes that we’re in with this light commercial vehicle we didn’t want to take higher chance of having a vendor give us a problem shall we one with establish vendor which costs us 25% of sales.
Yeah.
And one other things that we found in India that we actually surprise that we’re binding cost in India in source there lower than some of the costs that we had in China so and then you take out the shipping as the 20% import duty it make us very competitive in the country in India and it makes it more difficult for our competitors who are trying to ship product into India.
Yeah.
In the mature and so I can say in mature business what sort of percent your costs of good of sold tends to be as I had labor and materials? Matt we don’t disclose that for competitive reasons.
Okay.
Okay.
All right.
And… And one other thing I want to Matt is we just did a real competition in the (inaudible) low 30 is a fair number and also the number also had a point in there because of that inventory pricing adjustment we had about a $165 000 if we put that on a $160 million or so that’s about one-third on your margin right there in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
That’s the one-time deal.
Okay.
So when you say like these does not include the 16… Yeah.
Maybe we look to give you an idea if you pull just India out we have heavy overhead in China too because that market has ramped up but if you pull here India out we were just north of 32% we add another percent on to this inventory adjustment here 33% and these are approximation.
Yeah.
I mean kind of get up in those ranges.
Yeah.
I think one other thing I should point out is that we alternatively going forward expect higher margins with our joystick plant.
Okay.
Like six miscalled and then that all.
That makes quarter dissuasive.
Higher.
Higher.
I got you little careful Matt.
I’m – they are all listening here on the call.
Okay.
All right.
That’s it from me for now.
Thank you.
Thanks Matt.
There are no further questions in the queue.
I turn the call back over to Mr.
Bunday.
This concludes our fourth quarter and year end conference call.
We would like to thank everyone for attending today.
Have a good day.
Goodbye.
Bye now.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jessica and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Williams Controls First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Thank you.
Dennis Bunday Chief Financial Officer of Williams Controls you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter fiscal 2012 conference call.
Before we begin you should note that the following discussions and responses to questions reflects management's views as of today February 07 2012 and may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Information concerning risk factors and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in our filings with the SEC including our 2011 annual report on Form 10-K our fiscal 2012 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our fiscal 2012 current reports on Form 8-K.
Specific factors that may cause such a difference include but are not limited to availability of adequate working capital domestic and international competitive pressures increased governmental regulations increased costs of materials and labor and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO Pat Cavanagh for his comments on the quarter.
Thank you Dennis.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fiscal 2012 first quarter investor conference call.
This morning we released our financial results for our fiscal first quarter that ended December 31st 2011.
I'm in the Williams Controls office in Sauerlach Germany this afternoon which is just south of Munich while Dennis is in our Portland office.
First of all to start out today I'd like to thank our staff in the European office for safely getting me down to Austria and back in a blinding snowstorm through the Alps to visit one of our new off-road customers.
I flew into Munich from India on Sunday morning after spending a week visiting customers in our plant in Pune India.
I continue to be really excited about the opportunities for Williams in India.
While our Indian operation has been a drag on earnings for the last few quarters I'm confident that we are going to look back at the decision to establish operations in India as one of the best strategic moves the Company has made.
Establishing operations in India ahead of any of our competition combined with the launch of our new LCV light commercial vehicle pedal in India has established Williams as the unquestioned leader in this market.
We have a significant share of the light medium and heavy commercial vehicle market in India for electronic pedals.
It's not to say that we won't face tough competition down the road as our competitors decide to locate in India but having established a world-class manufacturing facility combined with in-country component sourcing and customer engineering support ahead of our competition has established us as a formidable competitor in this market.
During my visit to India I met with the director of strategic sourcing for a large manufacturer of trucks at our plant in Pune.
He told me that at the present time 19 metro areas in India have moved to BS4 emission regulation standards.
In most cases this standard drives the use of electronic engines and pedals.
That means that any new vehicles registered in those metro areas will have electronic engines and pedals.
As a practical matter if a truck owner can register his vehicle outside those areas for now he probably will but buses typically don't have a choice.
Over the next 24 months he expects that we'll see all of India transition to BS4 standards with several manufacturers actually transitioning early.
To give you a sense of the size of the market recent reports are projecting the April 2011 to March 2012 which is the Indian fiscal year the volumes will be around 746 000 light medium and heavy commercial vehicles being sold and over 400 000 of those will be light commercial vehicles.
This is compared to 676 000 light medium and heavy commercial vehicles in the comparable period last year.
While the size of the market is significant it's going to be a competitive market.
Many international truck OEMs are rushing to establish a presence in capacity in India such as Daimler India Isuzu MAN Volvo Eicher Mahindra Navistar Foton and others.
Today the majority of our competition for electric pedals in India mainly consists of our Asian and European competitors' products shipped in from outside of India.
But our customers must localize their supply base inside of India to be competitive because of the high duties logistics costs shipping and low Indian labor rates.
This gives our operation in India a very distinct advantage over our competition and it's also an opportunity for future business outside of India with OEMs that we're currently not doing business with now.
In our fiscal first quarter in India our plant shipped over 11 000 pedals with over 5 500 shipped in December.
In our fiscal second quarter which ends in March we are expecting to ship over 40 000 units to our key customers from our plant in India.
We expect to see these volumes continue to grow throughout the year in India.
As I mentioned in our last call in December we moved from the NASDAQ to the NYSE Amex because we think it will provide a better trading platform for our investors.
In the last 30 trading days the average daily trading volume of our stock has increased by 3 100 shares or 60% compared to the previous 30 days before we listed on the NYSE Amex and the spreads have typically been smaller.
I'm hopeful that this will continue and the trading volume will continue to grow.
I noticed yesterday that over 50 000 shares traded and our month – one month average is almost 10 000 shares.
Sales for our fiscal first quarter which ended December 31st 2011 increased $1.9 million or 14% to $15.5 million from $13.6 million for the comparable period last year.
Sales in North America were up 39% compared to the same quarter last year driven by a 46% increase in off-highway sales and a 58% increase in truck sales.
This was offset somewhat by slower growth in our aftermarket distribution and bus segments.
Sales in Europe were down 13% from the comparable quarter last year while off-highway sales in Europe were up 13%.
Overall truck sales in Europe were down 28% primarily because one of our major European customers was working through some supply chain issues which have been resolved in January.
While we experienced some growth in new truck sales in Turkey and Russia and with an off-road customer in Italy I expect sales in Europe this year to be flat as a result of the economic uncertainty.
Our Asian sales were down 29% for the quarter compared to last year primarily as a result of a 68% decrease in sales to a major OEM in Korea.
I've addressed this issue before as we periodically see some very large changes in ordering patterns in Korea as a result of our customer's product mix their inventory levels and production scheduling.
We are back to normal levels this quarter with this customer in Korea.
Our global off-highway sales increased by 35% primarily because of a 46% increase in North America as a result of two newly introduced products and to a lesser extent we had a 13% increase in Europe and China as a result of further market penetration of electronic engines in the off-highway market and improving market conditions.
I'll now turn the call over to Dennis Bunday to discuss our financial performance for the quarter.
Dennis? Thank you Pat.
First quarter net income was $1 million or $0.13 per diluted share compared to net income of $644 000 or $0.09 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.
The 57% quarter-over-quarter improvement was mostly due to the $2 million or 14.5% increase in sales.
The quarter also benefited by a $145 000 or a $0.02 per diluted share reduction in the Company's environmental accrual.
In our first fiscal quarter the State of Oregon Department of Environmental Quality modified allowable exposure levels for certain contaminants which has reduced the amount of remediation we will be required to perform at our Portland facility and the amount necessary for a cleanup provision.
At the end of the quarter we have $635 000 as a provision on our balance sheet for the remediation of our Portland facility.
Although we are confident that India will ultimately be a successful investment it continues to be a slight drag on earnings as we continue with our startup.
During the quarter the India loss was $250 000 or $0.03 per share.
This loss is exaggerated a bit as accounting standards require that we do not recognize a tax benefit on the loss at this time.
The upside on the tax provision is that when we do start to show a pattern of consistent earnings in India we will be able to absorb – we will be able to recognize the India income tax-free until the tax loss is fully absorbed.
For the quarter the basic EPS share count was 7 304 057 and fully diluted shares were 7 494 174.
At quarter-end we have 7 307 788 shares outstanding.
First quarter 2012 gross profits were $4.9 million a 13.8% improvement over the first quarter of last year.
For this year's first quarter gross margins were 31.5% of sales compared to 31.7% in the first quarter of last year.
Supply chain issues with one of our suppliers resulted in higher air freight costs which impacted the gross margin by about one full percentage point.
Manufacturing overhead was slightly lower in the quarter compared to the first quarter of last year.
$40 000 of higher costs related to ramping up India was more than offset by lower general operating costs in both Portland and Suzhou.
Material costs' edge are higher as price increases that were imposed by some suppliers worked their way through in the quarter.
However those increases were mitigated by a favorable sales mix.
Operating expenses which include engineering and development sales and administration were down $300 000 compared to last year's first quarter but excluding a couple of isolated items in both quarters were essentially at the same level quarter-to-quarter.
This year's first quarter included the $225 000 credit for the reduction in the environmental accrual and last year's first quarter had expenses of $150 000 related to a potential acquisition that we decided to terminate during the second quarter of fiscal 2011 while in due diligence.
Excluding these items operating expenses were about level.
Sales expenses were up as we increased our presence in Europe to take care of the increasing opportunities in that region.
Offsetting the higher selling expenses were slightly lower engineering and administrative costs.
The blended tax rate for the quarter was 37.7% which is a bit higher than normal.
The most significant factor for the higher rate was that consistent with accounting requirements we did not provide the tax benefit on the India loss for the quarter.
That increased our tax rate by about 5 percentage points.
Excluding the India impact the tax rate would have been about 32.7% which is within our expected ranges.
Although not booking an India tax provision cost us about $0.01 per share in the quarter we will be able to recognize the benefit at some point in the future when we establish consistent earnings pattern in India.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.
We ended the quarter with a slight net borrowing position of $1.2 million consisting of $1.4 million in cash and $2.6 million in short-term revolver borrowings.
We do not have any long-term debt.
EBITDA which consists of operating income depreciation and the non-cash charge for stock compensation expense contributed $2.5 million.
Our net debt position increased $900 000 during the quarter.
However the first quarter is when we normally pay a number of once yearly payments including property taxes annual bonuses and insurance payments and the decline in cash is not unexpected.
In addition we paid our regular quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share in December which used approximately $900 000 of cash.
Although our net debt position increased $900 000 during the quarter we believe that our $1.4 million in cash and $4.6 million of U.S.
revolver availability will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs in the near future.
Depreciation and amortization for the first quarter was $537 000 and non-cash compensation expense – stock compensation expense was $209 000.
CapEx for the quarter was a very light $260 000.
This is nothing more than timing and I expect we will spend approximately $2 million to $2.5 million on CapEx this year so spending will have to be higher in subsequent quarters.
This overall should be a relatively normal year for capital spending.
Last year was a bit higher at $2.8 million due to the number of new projects and the opening of our India facility but over the last three years we have averaged about $2.3 million per year.
Today we announced our regular quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share payable on February 28 to shareholders of record on February 21.
On one final note you may have seen in January we received a reprimand letter from the New York Stock Exchange stating we did not notify the Exchange 10 days before the record date of our Annual Meeting record date.
This was simply a clerical error on our side of a record date notification for a routine annual meeting.
All of our mailings to our stockholders and filings with the SEC related to our Annual Meeting were made on a timely basis and the NYSE considers this matter closed.
This concludes our formal comments.
We would now like to turn the meeting over to questions.
(Operator instructions).
We will pause for just a moment to compile the Q&amp;A roster.
Your first question comes from the line of Matthew Berry with Lane Five Capital Management.
Your line is open.
Hello gents.
Matthew.
Hi.
Okay.
I have a few questions.
So if I start waffling on then maybe I'll just hop back in the queue and ask more later.
First up I want to try and strip out the effects of these sort of temporary issues in Europe and Korea.
So with regard to Europe first those issues are now reversed is that correct as of January? Yes.
Okay.
So what – and that impacted margins in terms of air freight? Is that – is the air freight issue continuing or is that –? That really didn't affect air freight at all.
Air freight was another issue.
Okay.
Basically the customer issue was this.
In their logistics program they ended up ordering a lot of product last year and then no product in the last quarter and now they are back to normal this quarter.
Any air freight it – that's associated with that customer they are paying for.
Okay.
Okay and in – also the other issue I have just looking at Europe is trying to tease out what is temporary ordering issues the supply chain issues versus what is a macro demand issue because everybody is rather worried about Europe generally.
So could you elaborate a little bit on Europe sales and how much of the issue is just temporary and how much is more demand related? Well I can only really speak Matthew to our business and we are expecting and I think we've said in a couple of different times that we expect our sales in Europe to be flat with last year.
And we expect the truck market to be down this year but we expect some of our new business with truck customers in Turkey and Russia and some other places to be up which will kind of offset the downturn in the European market.
And so we think we are going to be about flat.
Okay.
Korea that – is the mix back to normal as of now? Yes.
Okay.
Actually it's back.
It seems to be more than – a little bit more than back.
What happened Matthew is something like this.
Our Korean customers ship product to various locations around the world and periodically they will have a large order that will go to a location that is not emission regulated.
So they will build a slew of trucks in one quarter or a month that are going to a location that do not require electronic engines or pedals.
And this has happened less and less frequently lately but periodically it happens.
And so that will affect – it will affect the – their ordering pattern and we know this quarter they are – looking at January and February they are back to normal.
Okay.
So if we were to ignore the temporary effects in Europe and Korea with regards to customers and product mixes and so on how much higher would sales have been in the first quarter? Yes probably a $0.5 million to $0.75 million.
Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Now one other thing I wanted to ask about India thank you for – Matthew you should note though that the – our first fiscal quarter is typically our very weakest quarter of the year.
I know; I understand that.
I'm just trying to tease out a little bit the impact of the temporary issues versus anything else.
In terms of profitability thank you for splitting out the India operating loss because that helps us understand the tax provision issue.
I see things are ramping up and you seem very excited Pat which is good to hear.
How long do you see at sort of current rates of anticipated ramp-up? How long do you see until you guys hit like a breakeven on an operating profit basis? I knew I was going to get asked that question Matthew.
A couple of factors.
Number one I think I mentioned in the last conference call that we had in December from the New York Stock Exchange that one of the items that we are working through right now is we think it's absolutely critical to our success and the success of our customers in the market to locally source our component products.
Identified sources back in last year we are going through all of the qualification and certification processes and I'm assured by our staff that in May or June of the majority of the products that we'll be selling in India will be locally sourced.
Our – as I mentioned we are very very conservative as far as the way we manage the business.
I had qualified suppliers around the world that supplied the Indian operation.
I didn't want to not open a new plant and then bring on a whole bunch of new suppliers and try and get it all qualified and do it all at the same time.
We brought on the new supplier or we brought on the new plant with qualified existing suppliers that we are very comfortable with.
That cost us more money because it's about a 20% – there's about 20% duty on parts coming in on average plus the freight and so on.
So making a long story short we are going to be – by the time we get to May/June we are going to be using components sourced in India which will help our margin okay? And that is something that we planned and we talked to our customers about from the beginning.
It was going to be a transition issue till we got to that point.
So at the same time our business is growing very quickly there.
We've won a number of new pieces of business because of our kind of first mover advantage and I would expect that we should be generating a profit by the first quarter of next year; in others words a year from now.
Okay.
Okay.
And then finally turning to the balance sheet receivables up payables down and we'll come to inventory in a second.
So just regard with – with regard to those two items what's going on there? Is it competitive issues changes in terms structural issues? Could you talk a little bit about that? Do you want me to take that one Pat? Yes Dennis.
Would you? All right okay.
Well first of all receivables are down just slightly from September 30.
That's mostly – there's nothing unusual there.
We will get – there's timing issues in that our sales were about $1 million lower in this quarter as compared to our fourth fiscal quarter so you would expect to see receivables down a little bit.
You get some timing issues particularly at the end of the year a number of our customers I think as we said take shutdowns during the last week – between Christmas and New Years we take a shutdown and so there's some timing there on when payments get processed.
To tell you the truth same thing Matt on accounts payable.
We – you see our accounts payable down.
That again nothing more than timing.
What happens is that we pay – before our Christmas shutdown we pay our – we pay the payables and then we don't have products coming in that last week which doesn't create inventory and receivable – and payables during that time frame.
So normally we see our payables dip down a little bit in the fourth – in our first fiscal quarter around December.
So again nothing unusual there.
As far as accrued liabilities are concerned like I said before we have – we pay a number of our one-time items bonuses property taxes and that brought down the accrual plus we drew down the accrual to $225 000 because of the environmental which is kind of – that's kind of outside the norm but again you kind of expect to see those accrued expenses go down a little bit toward the end of our first fiscal quarter.
Okay.
Just in terms of measuring these things rather in absolute to – in comparison to the sales stream in terms of days sales days COGS inventories and things these are at – there is a lot – there is quite a lot of capital investment in the business now than has been the case.
I was just wondering if the – if you are experiencing any competitive issues but it's all timing that.
Yes it really is.
I mean if you look at our day sales outstanding for example we bounce around the high 50 days and in our first fiscal quarter we popped up to 61 days and that was – to tell you the truth that little pop there was due to one of our customers where we normally receive a large – they usually pay us like once a month and they pay us right toward the end of the month while this quarter they paid a small amount at the end of the quarter and then I think like January 10th or something like that they paid us the remainder of it.
And so it was a timing deal so that pops my day sales outstanding up to 61 versus like in the high 50s 58 59 that we normally see.
Okay.
So that's the type of stuff but again nothing really – nothing really unusual on that.
Okay.
And then finally – and then I will – I promise I'll leave.
Just inventory you spoke a little bit about some price increases being pushed through and I know we've also spoken before about buying larger quantities of rare earth magnets and so on to mitigate some of the price swings there.
So could you give us an update because inventories are still fairly high in comparison – well that is still very high – fairly high so what's the latest there on what you guys doing on that? Well Dennis I can address that.
Okay.
Obviously we are hearing at the present time that rare earth magnets have been an issue and we hear that – and are expecting there is some policy shifts in China that rare earth magnets may take another steep rise now that we've finished the Chinese New Year.
So we are contemplating what we are going to do there.
I will tell you also that the inventory – one of the major drivers of the inventory was a customer of ours in Europe who had the logistics problem.
We continued to build product to support his business because we knew he would use the product.
And the inventory is well below the number that you are looking at right now that we closed December 2011 at.
I think that we are probably going to be down close to the $10 million range as we complete this quarter at the end of March.
So the inventory is going to continue to be down.
Part of it is of course we had this issue with the customer in Europe and his problems internally and – but we supported him through that.
And we do have some strategic inventory and we are not quite sure at this point which way we are going to move on that.
We could increase that slightly with the rare earth magnets depending on what we are – we really see in the marketplace.
But we are concerned that that's a – the rare earth magnet issue is probably not going to resolve itself until later this year when more supply comes online.
How much of your inventory does rare earth magnets stems tend to? I mean if you double the cost of rare earth magnets what percentage impact would that have on your inventory? Probably $250 000.
Okay.
Okay that's great.
That's great.
Okay I'll leave you guys alone and thank you so much.
Thanks Matthew.
(Operator instructions).
Your next question comes from the line of John Nobile with Taglich Brothers.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi John.
How are you? Good.
Thanks.
Good morning John.
Good morning.
My first question I just wanted to back up you said that you shipped 11 000 units in the December quarter in India okay? You're expecting to ship over 40 000 units in the current March quarter correct in India? I just want to make sure that these are correct numbers here.
Well you can imagine John.
The business is – we really kind of went into production in around September of last year I think was about the time.
But I want to make sure that you understood it.
What I said in my – my comments were that in the quarter ending in December we shipped 11 000 pedals with over 5 500 shipped in December.
Right.
Okay? And we are probably to ship right around 40 000 this quarter ending in March.
Okay.
And you can imagine the business is ramping up and – Yes.
– and we are ramping up to meet that demand.
So our pedal production is really gaining steam.
Okay.
Now there was an estimate for I believe it was 746 000 pedals both light medium and heavy duty commercial markets for India for I guess I could call it fiscal '13 because it ends next year's March.
Let me clarify what I said John to make sure you understood it.
What I said was the projection for this year which is the Indian fiscal year it – when you look at that year their current projection and that is April '10 – or April '11 to March '12 was 746 000 that's the projected total for light medium and heavy commercial vehicles in India.
Okay.
So that's from April '10 – April '11 to March '12 not April '12 to March '13? No that is this coming year.
It's coming to a close.
Okay.
So we are looking at over 700 000 pedal market obviously for you to penetrate.
I just wanted to get an idea about – I should be very clear.
Not all of that 746 000 are – at this point in time are going to be electronic pedals.
Right.
This market is transitioning over the next 24 months to electronic engines and pedals.
And right now a fraction of that 746 000 is electronic pedals.
Some units are already there some yet to be – have need – will need to be converted yet.
Okay.
But within 24 months – the next 24 months basically all areas in India are looking to go for the emission standards which would require – Yes I wish it was always that black and white.
Now we've seen some other things happen in China as you know and the current date in China is July of 2013.
Now I'm told this by one of our customers that's what they are expecting and that's how they are moving forward.
And we are seeing a significant activity in that area right now.
So I'm reasonably confident it's going to happen but it may not all completely happen.
Okay but – But obviously we are seeing a pretty significant increase in that market.
Okay.
But obviously with that type of a market even if half of them go to the electronic throttle control – it's a relatively large market obviously from where you were in the first quarter in – Yes it really is John.
It's what so exciting about it.
I'm just curious I boiled my question down to just trying to find out what type of market share in that size market are we looking that you think you can penetrate of the electronic throttle controls? What percentage wise market share? Well John we don't really speculate on that and it's not something that I want to talk to my competitors about which are on the line today.
So I would tell you that like any other market we are going to work really hard at getting our fair share of that market and usually – it's usually pretty substantial.
So we are going to work towards that.
Okay.
And if I could just quantify – Sorry John.
I can't answer that directly.
That's okay.
Just to ask another question in the India market you shipped 11 000 units 5 500 in December.
But for the quarter that was 11 000 units.
If I could quantify that in revenue in India market what are we looking at – what did that contribute? John we don't give average selling prices.
It communicates too much to our competitors and I won't do it.
I would tell you that we will ship this year somewhere over $2 million is my expectation right now in the Indian market in this fiscal year could be as high as $2.5 million or $2.6 million.
Okay and that's in your fiscal 2013 obviously? No that's our fiscal '12.
Fiscal '12.
That's this year.
I'm sorry – I'm sorry September fiscal I'm sorry.
September fiscal we get $2 million.
Okay.
All right I'll get off of India right now.
But the joysticks obviously they contributed to sales in the quarter.
I was just curious what you – Very very little John.
Okay but –? We are just launching that.
Now it probably cost us money in the quarter because of our kind of – we are really ramping up our marketing activities for those.
Right.
We did sell some but not a significant amount.
But for the year the fiscal year the September year what do you think when looking at the joystick sales for the year because obviously it's going to be some kind of a ramp-up? Yes it's probably going to be pretty small I would guess John it's probably between $100 000 and $200 000.
For the whole year? Yes.
We are in the process of testing this product with customers.
And you know that the cycle is typically six months to a year and then we are going to find – sometimes it's longer and then we are going to find a very steep ramp-up once these things are qualified.
Okay.
So in fiscal 2013 I guess we could have – We will start to see some significant sales in '13.
Okay.
And I know you mentioned earlier in India – I hate to get back to India for you guys again but the margins were affected by higher shipping costs obviously you are looking by May or June to have locally sourced the product there.
But in a total gross margin effect what do you think that the – that extra shipping cost in India might have affected your total gross margins for the quarter? Well I don't know.
Dennis maybe you could comment on that.
But I would just tell you John that right now products that we bring in have – right across the top have a 20% increase in whatever their costs are because of the duty plus whatever the shipping costs; and if you figure 3% to 5% for shipping costs there's a 25% hit on the component part and some are actually even higher depending on what they are.
So that doesn't help us any.
So that's why we are working very diligently and – but we want to make sure that we have the right suppliers in the right quality and everything is validated and checked and double-checked.
And so you are looking at that kind of a change in price to source assuming that the prices at the Indian suppliers are the same as what we are buying them elsewhere which we are trying to do.
You are looking at that kind of a differential.
Okay.
But obviously right now the India sales are kind of slow – not slow but they are just starting to ramp up.
So the effect on total gross margins may not be that significant.
No it's probably not really significant.
Dennis you might want to weigh in on that? Yes it really isn't at this point.
The volumes are not that high at this point and so we are not looking at big numbers there.
I would have to say probably your question John on the freight and duty most of that inventory was already purchased and setting there.
But when we did bring it in – and of course we'd relieve it from inventory at this time it was probably $50 000 $75 000 somewhere in there.
Okay just to see what level of significance that might have affected it.
Actually my questions have been answered from the previous caller.
So I think I'm good.
Thank you very much.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.
This concludes our first quarter conference call.
We would like to thank everyone for attending today.
Bye now.
Everyone from Munich bye now.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kirk and I’ll be your conference operator today.
At this time I’d like to welcome everyone to the Williams Controls Third Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions) Thank you.
Mr.
Dennis Bunday Chief Financial Officer.
You may begin your conference.
Good afternoon everyone.
And welcome to our third quarter 2012 conference call.
Before we begin you should note that the following discussions and responses to questions reflect management's views as of today August 8 2012 and may include forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Information concerning risk factors and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially is included in our filings with the SEC including our 2011 annual report on Form 10-K our fiscal 2012 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our fiscal 2012 current reports on Form 8-K.
Specific factors that may cause such a difference include but are not limited to availability of adequate working capital domestic and international competitive pressures increased governmental regulation increased costs of materials and labor and general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.
I will now turn the call over to our CEO Pat Cavanagh for his comments on the quarter.
Thank you Dennis.
Good afternoon everyone and welcome to our fiscal 2012 third quarter investor conference call.
I’m glad so many of you could join us today.
I think we have a record number of participants today.
This morning we released our financial results for our fiscal third quarter that ended June 30 2012.
Sales for the quarter were $16.4 million down 2.3% from $16.8 million reported in the comparable period last year and down 2.7% from the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
Even though sales were down 2.7% from the second quarter net income remained relatively level at $845 000.
For the nine-month period sales increased $3.6 million or 8% to $48.7 million from the comparable nine-month period last year.
Net income for the nine-month period was $2.8 million up 16% compared to $2.4 million in the comparable period last year but it was impacted by India startup costs and higher material cost that Dennis is discussing further in his portion of the presentation.
NAFTA was the primary driver of sales in the quarter up 5% from the comparable quarter last year and 19% year-to-date.
Sales in the NAFTA region were led by our commercial truck customers which were up 13% for the quarter and 36% year-to-date compared to last year.
OEM truck sales were down slightly quarter-over-quarter however.
NAFTA Class 8 production in the first half of the calendar reached 150 000 units.
But based on recent weakness in new orders the falling order backlog and higher inventory levels production is projected to be lower in the second half of this calendar year.
Current NAFTA truck production in 2012 is projected to reach 270 000 units which is up from last year’s 255 000 trucks.
We believe however the near-term economic uncertainty will end later this year after the election and that will result in NAFTA Class 8 production to be similar -- at similar levels in 2013 and ’14.
We also expect the Class 4 to 7 productions will be slightly higher in 2013 and ’14 due to improving construction trends in aging equipment.
India sales from our new manufacturing facility in Pune are up 41% fiscal year-to-date at $1.1 million and up 43% when compared to the same quarter last year.
Sequentially quarter-over-quarter we saw 34% drop in sales to 361 000 probably due to comparison with the strong second quarter and a couple of customer shutdowns in this quarter as a result of weak truck orders.
We’ve been able to implement price increases in India due to the rising material costs and we are moving forward with our local sourcing and sensor product and as a matter of fact we started sensor product this month in India.
We expect to complete all of our local sourcing by year end and we are confidence that our startup cost in India will not be drag on our earnings in Calendar 2013.
Our China sales in the third quarter were up 8% sequentially at $728 000.
But we are still down year-to-date due to weak commercial truck and off-highway equipment markets.
In the first six months of the year China heavy trucks sales declined by 32% from 2011 to 371 000 vehicles.
It should be noted that the top five heavy truck makers in China now have 82% market share and they all had varying degrees of sales decreases from last year.
As you know China’s stimulus policy boosted the commercial truck market in 2009 and ’10 and the commercial vehicle OEMs are hoping that government -- the government will take measures in the second half of this year to boost infrastructure investment and increase truck and off-highway equipment sales which would be an addition to the newly released trading subsidies from scrapping vehicles.
It is widely anticipated that sales of heavy truck off-highway equipment in China will improve in the second half of the year.
Since our last investor call we have not heard any -- we’ve not heard any other feedback on the new emission regulations in China slighted for July of 2013.
Sales in Europe were down 6% compared to the same quarter and also down 7% year-to-date as a result of the weak economic climate and customer uncertainty.
I think we can logically expected weakness for the rest of the year in Europe but I expect the rebound next year due to the prebuy for the 2014 emission regulation changes.
Global off-highway sales were also down 6% for the quarter but up 15% year-to-date compared to last year.
While a quarter was not a successful as I would have like we are very excited about our prospects in this market as a result of the new programs we have won and we will reach production in the next several years.
This month we anticipate being awarded a new opportunity with a well-known off-highway OEM for a version of our recently introduced LCD panel.
This panel will begin shipping next year and expect volumes will exceed 50 000 units per year.
As we have discussed in the past we are in the midst of watching an aggressive sales in media campaign for our new CANbus Joystick product line.
We are very excited about this product as its potential market is larger globally than our panel market.
We believe that our long standing relationship and contacts and quality certification with the major off-highway OEMs combined with our global manufacturing platforms will enable us to be successful with this new product especially in the Asian market as it will simply be one of the largest markets for joystick in the world and we will leverage our footprint and customer relationships in that market with his new product.
At this point we're working with two major off-highway OEMs on new programs and have test units at the number of others.
I’ll now turn the call over the Dennis Bunday to discuss our financial performance for the quarter.
Dennis? Thank you Pat.
Net income for the third quarter was $845 000 or $0.11 per diluted shares compared to net income of $1.5 million or $0.20 per share in the third quarter 2011.
Third quarter gross profit were $4.9 million on $16.4 million in sales or 14% decline from last year’s third quarter gross profit of $5.7 million on $16.8 million of sales.
For this year’s third quarter gross margin were 29.7% compared to 33.8% in the third quarter of last year.
Sales in the quarter were down approximately $400 000 which contributed both the lower gross margins and net income.
However the more significant contributors were higher material costs.
The India startup and sales mix changes.
As we have commented in prior calls material cost have increased over the last year for several items such as die cast components and rare earth magnets.
Overhead cost have remained relatively consistent with last year.
India continues to negatively impact both gross margins and earnings.
This was not an expected as we continue with our ramp up in that strategically important market.
Approximately 0.0075 of a percentage point of the lower quarter-over-quarter gross profit margin comparison can be attributed to the India startup.
We are on target to have the majority of our India components locally sourced by the end of this year and we have recently implemented price increases both of which will improve the results in that market.
For the quarter the India start-up reduced earnings approximately $0.05 per share.
Overall approximately 60% of the four percentage point decline in gross margin was due to volume and mix with the remainder due to higher material costs.
For the first nine months of this year net income was $2.8 million or $0.36 per share compared to net income of $2.4 million or $0.32 per share in the first nine months of last year.
Both year-to-date earnings numbers have some one-time or unusual items that need to be considered in the comparisons.
Fiscal 2012 includes the reduction in our environment provision of $145 000 on an after-tax basis or $0.02 per share.
For fiscal 2011 the first nine months included an after-tax charges of approximately $395 000 or $0.05 per share related to some special project and a legal settlement of a long outstanding claim.
Excluding these one-time items from each of the year-to-date results the pro forma EPS would have been $0.34 for 2012 and $0.37 for 2011.
For the nine months gross profits improved to $14.8 million on $48.7 million of sales compared to $14.4 million on $45.1 million of sales in the first nine months of 2011.
On a percentage basis gross margins declined to 30.3% of sales in the current year from 31.9% last year.
Somewhat similar factors influenced the first nine months as did the quarter other than the higher sales levels in 2012 created a larger base to distribute fixed overhead improving the gross profit margin for the year-to-date numbers.
Higher material costs in the India start-up were the largest factors in not seeing the gross margin percentage improved over the last year’s levels.
Overall India negatively impacted the first nine months approximately a $0.11 per share.
Part of the impact of India in both the quarter and nine months is reflected in the gross margins and operating expenses.
However a portion is also included in our tax rate.
Our tax rate for the third quarter was 42.6% and for the nine months it was 40.6%.
Normally we would expect our tax rate to be in the mid 30% ranges.
However until we develop the consistent earnings pattern in India we are not reflecting a tax benefit on the India loss on the income statement thus increasing our overall effective tax rate.
This was also the case last year.
However this was offset by the last – by the last year of our five-year tax holiday in China.
Excluding these two components our tax rate would've been in the mid-30% ranges for all periods.
For the current quarter the basic EPS share count was 7 338 423 and the fully diluted share count was 7 517 291.
For the nine month ended June 30 2012 the basic EPS share count was 7 321 202 and the fully diluted EPS share count was 7 511 933.
At June 30th we had 7 341 659 shares outstanding.
Engineering sales and administrative expenses during the quarter were down $181 000 from the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and were down $204 000 for the first nine months.
When excluding the $225 000 reduction in our environmental provision in fiscal 2012 and the $579 000 in one-time special projects and legal costs in the first nine months of fiscal 2011.
The decreases in both periods were primarily due to decreases in engineering and administration costs offset slightly by increases in selling expenses as we added additional technical support to our European sales team late last year.
Engineering costs will fluctuate due to the number and timing of projects and process and where each project is in the development cycle.
We remain fully committed to developing new projects and the lower engineering costs for both the quarter and year-to-date are strictly timing and do not represent a shift in our commitment to new product development.
Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow our net cash position was approximately $1.7 million at the end of the third quarter with cash of $2.6 million offset by $900 000 of India debt which is supported by a domestic revolver.
EBITDA which consists of operating income depreciation and the non-cash charge for stock option expense contributed $7.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2012.
Inventories decreased $2.4 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2012.
This reduction was mostly related to reducing certain safety top stock as supply was stabilized for some components and more closely balancing inventory requirements with our sales mix.
We also had higher than normal inventory at last year-end as we supported the large customer while they were addressing some internal logistics issues.
Trade payables and accrued expenses were down from the end of fiscal 2011 primarily due to seasonal payments in the first quarter of the fiscal year of amounts accrued at the end of the prior year the property taxes compensation and insurance payments and to a lesser degree timing and payments of accounts payable in line with inventory purchases.
Depreciation and amortization for the third quarter was $521 000 and non-cash stock option expense was $142 000.
CapEx for the quarter was $456 000 and $958 000 year-to-date.
Our capital spending is much lower than normal through the first nine months of 2012 mostly due to the timing of projects.
We anticipate our capital spending to be approximately $1.5 million for this full year.
During the quarter we entered into a new loan agreement replacing the $8 million revolving loan agreement that expired on June 30.
The new agreement is for $50 million of immediately available borrowing capacity and will expire on June 30 2014.
This additional capacity gives us the opportunity to immediately pursue opportunities as they arise.
Today we announced our regular quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share payable on August 28 to shareholders of record as of August 21.
Thus far this year we have paid out approximately $2.7 billion in cash dividends to stockholders.
This concludes our formal comments.
We would now like to turn the meeting over to questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Matthew Berry from Lane Five Capital Management.
Your line is open.
Hello gentlemen.
How are you? I’m good Matt.
How are you doing? I’m very well.
I’m very well.
Okay.
Lots of different moving parts this quarter.
With off-road some positive things going on in NAFTA and Europe in terms of new wins being offset with a bit of a shocker in China really.
Could you talk a little bit about what products are driving the off-road growth that you experienced in NAFTA and Europe? Well we supply both paddles and paddle assemblies to a number of the major off-highway manufacturers and a number of smaller manufacturers in these markets.
And to the extent Matt that the economy has an influence on the buying appetite of the customers and what kind of infrastructure improvements and housing developments and that kind of thing are going on there so that drives a lot of it.
You typically signed our equipment on bulldozers skid steer loaders cranes wheel loaders road graders various types of tractors and those are the kind of equipment that our product builds on.
Okay.
Sorry.
Go on.
To the extent they sell that equipment and that drives our sales in the off-highway market.
Is this growth through sort of incremental platform wins where you’re taking away share from other players or is this growth on platforms that are growing with the market? All of the above.
We’ve won several new platforms from our competitors.
We are on new platforms that are coming into production.
And so if its incremental or when one product is replaced with a newer product or a new version of the same product typically we’ve had -- produce significant share of that market and we continue on with that business.
So it’s kind of all of the above.
Okay.
Good.
And we have one.
I will say this.
We have one several new customers over the last couple of years that we did not have in the past.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks for that.
I’ve got another question about India couple of questions about India.
The total on the last conference call will you expect it to start seeing some margin improvement as you shifted procurement over to local suppliers through June and well starting in June and July.
Obviously only one quarter of that -- also any one month of that in the current result? That’s part of the problem.
We were very confident on India.
Two things are going on there.
One is because of some of the changes -- some what of a lag here but some of the what -- components like rare earth magnets and that type of things there has been an earlier increase and it has to do with China sourcing of those magnets but China has pulled through -- put it on allocation and done several different things which has driven up the price pretty substantially.
And that service gives us a lag between the time that price goes up and the time that we’re able to convince customers that we need the price increase.
Well we’ve been actively after that first increase and we’re getting there but that really didn’t have any impact on this previous quarter.
It will have some impact on this quarter but not a whole lot but some.
Okay.
We really expect to see it in the last calendar quarter of this year.
And if you -- that's one piece but the other part it’s absolutely important to us is local sourcing over there.
And I said it in the last call that our plan was not to put a lot of variables in play all at the same time.
We wanted to make sure we have our process down and we were supplying components that we were absolutely confident that we are good from our existing suppliers outside of India.
Now that’s run its course.
We won a substantial portion of the business in India.
We have worked very hard in identifying sources.
We’re in the process right now.
A number of components are just starting production in India.
I mentioned in the call that one of the biggest and cost drivers that we have are our sensors and we built of course a clean room there.
We just finished that and we just started the initial; production over there.
We expect to be in full production with sensors in December January of this year.
So that’s going to have a big impact on our margins in India.
And that was kind of our plan from the very beginning.
We wanted to have as clean and a successful launch as possible.
And I think to a large extent we’ve accomplished that and now we’re taking the second step and we’re step-by-step identifying the best suppliers we can get our hands on.
And we’re qualifying those components which is not -- it's an overnight kind of thing when you identify these guys.
This goes through validation testing and C-Fabs and a number of others to get them qualified and certified.
So it takes some time.
But as I said in the call India will not be a drag in our earnings next year.
Okay.
So one of the things on just regarding India in terms of the -- you can’t deduct the losses at the moment for tax purposes so you got the higher tax rates.
Right.
Later on will there be sort of a retrospective tax asset that you guys get back.
Will you be able to recover those losses for tax purposes later.
Yeah.
We will.
At what point? Matt this is -- what you do it is the way you look at that as your problem probably take it all at one time.
And kind of the test is it is more likely than not that you will in the future earn enough money to absorb your tax loss carry forwards and so you have to have a fairly consistent earnings there.
So you generally have to have a year or so of consistent earnings and a pretty good looking prospect before you start reversing those or taking those reserves off the provision.
So you kind of look at with …you kind of look at when you get there and see what make sense.
So we kind of look into 2014 at the earliest then.
Yeah but remember that one of the nice things though is that when we start making money in India we don’t have to pay cash taxes on that because even though from an accounting standpoint you might not be taking the reserve off of that provision you are going to be making money there and you from a tax standpoint you’re going to be absorbing those loss or those NOL carry forwards and you don’t have to pay cash taxes.
So there is we’re going to add a little bit -- we're going to add little bit we know there definitely is a bit of a kicker coming in there and we’re absorbing those losses today but it definitely will come back.
Yeah.
And the big thing is you won’t have those losses in when you start making money and you start providing even after you reverse the provision and all that you’re back to I think tax rate in India is like 30% or something like that.
So we’re back more on a normalized taxes and we’re not getting baked on no tax benefit on the losses.
Matt I think one thing that I wasn’t -- I’m not sure but was clear on this in the last call.
But all the components that we bring into India from outside whether its China or here or Europe we’re paying freight and duty on those components going in there and that’s in the neighborhood of about 25%.
Yeah.
Okay.
I have a couple of more questions but I’ll jump back in the queue to open it up to anybody else.
Okay.
(Operator Instruction) Your next question comes from the line of John Nobile from Taglich Brothers.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi John.
How are you doing? Pretty good.
Thanks.
I was surprised to see such a large drop in your sales to China.
Do you believe that the economic conditions were solely to blame or do you think that there is other factors that might be in play even competitive conditions? The competitive issue is always around us but things have been pretty weaker.
I mean when you see truck sales down 30% from last year.
We only have a very very small part of that truck market right now with electronic engines that they are exploring but it’s got a pretty substantial financial hit.
So… Okay.
I just know because the growth rate is slowing but they are still showing I believe some positive growth.
That’s why when I saw the magnitude of the China sales it led me to think like maybe something else besides economic factors in hand.
While off-highway everybody talks about the infrastructure investment.
The infrastructure investment in China is what drives sales of our off-highway equipment.
Off-highway equipment is a big part of our business over there.
Okay.
And if you could just I think earlier on you said that I missed it.
The sales in India what exactly that -- I think you mentioned on a percentage basis but the dollar wise what they have earned in India for the quarter and how they’re compared to your fiscal Q2 not last years numbers because obviously it’s brand new but ….
We were down -- I think John the message here was we had a very strong second quarter in India.
And this last quarter third quarter was down from that.
It was down I think -- let's see if I can look at my notes here.
We were down 34% comparing this sequentially….
Sequentially yes.
But you know in those case it is pretty obvious John I mean in those markets with those numbers I mean this is -- we've talked about this numerous times before with Korea and some of these other markets.
I mean they are volatile especially when you are at start of stage like this.
I mean if I look back part of the issue I think in India was that we had a very strong second quarter as a result of launching a new customer and filling the pipeline and all that kind of thing which bolster that sales a little bit.
And then India seeing some of the same weakness China has and two of our customers in India last quarter shutdown for weaker sub.
I mean those are getting kind of an odd comparison but all in all we’re really comfortable with where we’re at in India and we like the penetration we’ve got and where we’re going.
Okay.
Obviously you comments before about India start-up cost I believe you said it would not drag on earnings in 2013.
Can I take that to basically save that -- it would reach a break-even point in India come 2013? Yeah.
And that’s why I am going and that going to be drag on earnings.
Yeah.
Okay.
I just wanted to make sure.
Not going to see this way John.
We’re going to have things almost fully implemented by the end of the year -- calendar year.
So to the extent that may be in the first quarter of our fiscal 2013 to have some drag from India.
Going forward from there I think we are going to be in good position.
Okay.
So keeping it sound like the stall of the first quarter -- fiscal first quarter I can anticipate maybe a tax rate getting back to like mid-30s because of the drag on India but they could …? No.
That’s not going to at.
If you have a break-even John yeah you are going to -- your tax rate are going to go down because there is not going to be a loss that you don’t have a provision for so your tax rates all get down some yeah that will get down there.
Okay.
Whether it hit mid-30s.
Yeah.
It should hit mid-30s.
Yeah.
That’s fair.
Okay.
And John our position here is and this was anticipated from the GEICO with India.
I look -- it was critical that we established our reputation versus our competitors.
We were the first mover.
We’ve gained all the share and we didn’t want to make mistake because that’s definitely in our industry equivalent in the commercial truck in off-highway equipment market have very long memory.
And we wanted to make sure that we were dead on and when we went there and we were.
And we implemented our production.
And we are supplying and the products have been rock solid.
And that’s how I feel very comfortable and so the next step is ensuring that we have the best supply base possible in India and that’s takes times.
And so in our next year what we are looking to kind of trend the corner.
Okay.
Sounds good.
I just have one more question and its actually in regard to this current call your fiscal Q4 because there were power size I mean significantly affected India for actually quite a while and I’m just curious the power size in India if they’ve had any effect on… I will push your mind to rest at our plan.
When we refurbish that plant I purchased the brand new fully capable electric diesel gen set and it has full capabilities supply our plant 24 hours a day.
So to the extent that we’re affected by -- and when our customer that affected by and that’s where we have to go.
Okay.
So I mean your plant was up and running but customer orders I am just curious if it may have… Our customers are seeing weakness in India.
But I don’t think it’s due to the power failure.
No.
I don’t think so.
Because do you think about we don’t sell that much in the north and east of India most of ours is on the west and south.
Okay.
And so I don’t think we would -- I did not hear anything that our customers were affected by -- they would have been for few days and they would be able to catch up and repay so...
So that’s not an issue.
That’s not an issue.
No.
Its not one that they comes up on our radar screen weaker economic climate is what comes up on our radar screen.
So when we are talking to our customers such order.
Okay.
That’s all I had.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Thanks John.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Berry from Lane Five Capital Management.
Your line is open.
Okay.
Hi Matt again.
Hello again.
Anything changes we last spoke.
Not.
Okay.
There is a couple sort of just moping up details.
Firstly what was depreciation in the quarter? The second of about $500 000 depreciation is $521 probably in $21 000.
Okay.
And CapEx? Was $456 000.
Okay.
So little bit… Stock option expense was $142 000 in quarter two so if you’re building your cash flows.
Thank you.
So at this level given where we’re at.
I heard some that commentary around revolver given where we are at in terms of China Europe sort of mix bag in the U.S.
How are you guys feeling about the dividend whether you are comfortable with it whether you still like the revolver is there to help pay it just comments on the -- its probably $0.12 a share verus $0.11 of earnings how do you… It’s a good question [Mammy] correct.
We kind of take a little bit longer term look at the business and we are feeling pretty comfortable where we are.
We are looking forward to kind of return to some confidence with our customers.
But yeah we’ve look at the dividend and where we are every quarter and the Board makes that call and they meet every quarter and obviously we’re very comfortable this quarter.
Okay.
All right.
Have you taken on it quarter-by-quarter basis? Yeah.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
We have discussion about it every quarter before we announce it.
Okay.
And then lastly there were some funding market action in end of June and July with stock running up to 12.5 bucks how about that? I got little excited did you -- do you know have any idea what was behind that did you get speculate something? We can speculate a little bit but we really don’t know.
We sell at June and we had no idea what was driving it.
All right.
Well its was… We did talk to our market maker and his thought was there might be some people covering some shot or something like that and that they drilled the price.
Yeah.
If you know but that was speculation… Speculation.
There is nothing out in the marketplace.
There was -- there was nothing that from our standpoint that would drive it.
Okay.
Matt we forget it and we were puzzled by to be honest with you and it all happened right at the end of the quarter if I remember too which drove our market maker to think that it was some shorts that we are trying to cover and they were having a hard time finding stock.
But we don’t know.
We don’t know.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
That’s all from me.
Thanks guys.
All right.
Thanks Matt.
Thanks Matt.
(Operator Instructions) We have no further questions at this time.
I will turn the call back over to the presenters.
This concludes our third quarter conference call.
I’d thank everybody for attending today.
Thank you very much.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Curtiss-Wright Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call may be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Martin Benante Executive Chairman.
Please go ahead.
Well thank you Danielle and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Curtiss-Wright second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining me today and back by popular demand is Dave Adams our newly elected President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the board; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Early this morning we have actuated the company's leadership transition and management reorganization plan which was at least 5 years in the making.
Starting with Dave Adams being appointed COO and aggressing through a rigorous succession and evaluation timeframe.
The board and I have reached the conclusion that Dave should be the future leader of Curtiss-Wright.
Throughout this leadership transition I am turning out the CEO reins to Dave who has been a strong leader within the organization for more than a decade while I will be transitioning from the CEO to the role of Executive Chairman effective immediately.
As a career employee of Curtiss-Wright the timing of this announcement and my retirement in 2015 are aligned with my intentions to leave the company at age 62.
It has been an absolute pleasure to work with such a great corporation as Curtiss-Wright for the past 35 years the last 13 being the CEO and to lead our acquisition and diversification strategies as we grew from less than $300 million in sales when I first became CEO to $2.5 billion and surprise today.
During the timeframe we have greatly broadened our exposure to new end markets and geographies to truly become a global and diversified business.
One final comment before we move on.
Dave's leadership and operational experience which has included the integration of 17 acquisitions have provided a solid foundation that will serve him well into the future.
I have the utmost confidence that Dave will succeed as the new CEO of Curtiss-Wright.
And I'd like to be the first to publicly congratulate him on his new role.
Congratulations Dave.
Thanks Marty.
I'm pleased to have been selected by the Board of Directors as the company's new Chief Executive Officer.
I look forward to working closely with Marty and the rest of the board and the management team to lead Curtiss-Wright through the next phase of its evolution.
Looking ahead I remain confident in the company's ability to deliver strong growth in revenue and operational expansion based on solid growth enhanced by strategic acquisitions.
We're dedicated to increasing long-term shareholder value.
We will continue to integrate our recent acquisitions and expand our margins to deliver solid growth for the bottom line.
Our management team has also focused on improving our cash flow generation to support the business and to fuel our acquisition strategy.
Now on to the second quarter results.
Overall sales and operating income results were solid with organic operating income growing 30% on essentially flat organic sales producing 260 basis points in margin improvement year-over-year.
These results reflect the benefits from our previously implemented restructuring and operational improvement initiatives.
We generated $0.70 in diluted earnings per share which included a penny of contribution from our recent acquisitions.
This concluded a solid first half of 2013 which would have been even stronger without the impact of purchase accounting from the recent acquisitions.
This performance along with our continued focus on improved operation efficiency should put us on track for strong double-digit increases for the top and bottom line in 2013 and gives us confidence in raising our guidance.
We expect the combination of these factors to provide momentum for further improvement heading into 2014.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn for a review of our financial performance.
Thank you Dave.
Our call today is being webcast.
And the press release as well as a copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties.
And we detailed those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company's website.
For our agenda today I will provide you with an overview of Curtiss-Wright's second quarter 2013 performance and financial outlook followed by Dave who will provide an update on our recent acquisitions before turning it back to Marty to wrap up and then open the call for questions.
We produced a solid second quarter that was led by our 7 most recent acquisitions and the benefit of prior restructuring and operational improvement initiatives.
While the acquisitions added slightly more than $100 million in sales and $5 million in operating income in the quarter they also created 90 basis points in operating margin dilution.
However the second quarter impacts of the acquisition margin dilution most of which was related to purchase accounting was less than the first quarter.
And this trend will continue as we progress through the remainder of the year.
Excluding the recent acquisitions from our second quarter results total organic operating margin rose 260 basis points to 10.3%.
While organic segment operating margin which excludes corporate and pension costs increased to 12.6% up 350 basis points from 2012.
This performance is the product of operational improvements across all 3 segments.
I would like to take a minute to discuss each of them excluding the impact of acquisitions.
Flow Control was up 300 basis points year-over-year primarily based on improved profitability in the power generation and oil and gas markets despite absorbing the learning curve costs associated with the integration of Cimarron production into our Houston operations.
Controls increased 100 basis points primarily due to the benefits of previously implemented cost-reduction initiatives within the defense business.
And Surface Technologies was up approximately 300 basis points year-over-year excluding $5 million in 2012 restructuring costs based on higher sales volumes and higher absorption of fixed overhead costs.
Our quarterly results also included the absorption of a $3 million unplanned curtailment charge based on a recent amendment to the Curtiss-Wright pension plan which led to higher-than-expected pension expense for the second quarter.
Otherwise we have produced -- we would have produced even stronger results.
In addition second quarter's new orders increased 24% and are up 22% year-to-date based on the combination of the acquisitions as well as organic growth primarily in our commercial aerospace and naval defense markets.
Book-to-bill was approximately 1x overall in the quarter.
Moving on to our end markets second quarter sales in defense decreased 8% overall due to lower production on several programs particularly in aerospace and ground defense.
On the bright side we did see an uptick in naval defense revenues for CVN-79 aircraft carrier production and the refueling and complex overall of the CVN-72 carrier.
Despite the overall reduction in naval defense sales during the first half of 2013 we continue to expect higher full-year sales in this end market primarily based on expected increases in the Virginia Class submarine and the Ford Class aircraft carrier programs during the second half of the year essentially all of which is currently in backlog.
Meanwhile our outlook in the aerospace and ground defense markets continues to reflect lower incoming order rates.
As we have yet to receive clarity from the DOD as it pertains to specific sequestration-related budget cuts and the direct program impacts our 2013 guidance for total defense sales remains unchanged at flat to down 4% which does not include any specific impacts of sequestration at this time.
Next I'll move on to our commercial end markets which collectively grew 33% during the second quarter based on strong contributions from our recent acquisitions and solid organic growth of 15% in the commercial aerospace market based on the strength of the OEM cycle and continued production rate increases across Boeing and Airbus platforms.
Excluding acquisitions our energy markets experienced organic growth in their respective aftermarket businesses which continue to perform well.
This is particularly evident in the oil and gas market as we once again experienced solid U.S.
MRO demand supporting ongoing refinery maintenance needs as well as an increased demand for our MRO products serving the upstream oil and gas sector.
Within the power generation market our results reflect continued demand from existing operating reactors despite fewer additives including solid demand for our obsolescence solutions specifically for spent fuel management technologies as we continue to expand our installed base and support the NRC's Tier 1 regulation.
In summary our overall guidance within our commercial markets remains unchanged at growth of 30% to 34% in 2013 although I wanted to point out some minor market adjustments.
Commercial aerospace market guidance was increased slightly due to improvements in the production cycle while general industrial decreased slightly due to lower HVAC orders.
You can find the complete table of our guidance by end market in the appendix as well as in the earnings press release.
Moving on to our financial outlook full year overall sales growth of 18% to 20% remains unchanged from our previous guidance.
However we now expect operating income operating margin and diluted earnings per share to be above our previous guidance based on expectations for improved profitability in our Controls and Surface Technologies segments.
We continue to realize the benefits from previous restructuring and operational excellence initiatives which will lead to solid overall margin expansion in 2013 and beyond.
In addition we now expect the 7 most recent acquisitions to be slightly less dilutive to operating margins in 2013 with the full year impact of approximately 60 basis points compared to 70 basis points on our previous guidance.
As for our EPS guidance based on the improved first-half results we have increased our guidance by a nickel to a range of $2.75 to $2.85.
And regarding our second half diluted earnings per share we expect the third quarter to be up modestly on a sequential basis compared to the second quarter with the fourth quarter expected to be the largest as we have generated historically.
And finally year-to-date we have produced strong cash flow from operations of over $60 million one of the strongest first halves in recent history that led to $29 million in free cash flow during the first 6 months of 2013.
As a result of the strong first half performance and expectations for additional improvements in working capital and tighter controls on capital allocation in the second half of the year we raised our free cash flow guidance by $10 million to a range of $100 million to $110 million for 2013.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave to provide some updates on our recent acquisitions.
Dave? Thanks Glenn.
I wanted to take a few minutes to provide you with an update on our integration status for each acquisition.
I'll begin with Williams Controls.
Thus far we have integrated the industrial sales and marketing teams including the employment of new leadership and consolidated our existing aerospace sensors business in China into Williams' state-of-the-art manufacturing facility.
As for next steps we're focused on the integration of Williams' joystick and sensors product lines with their existing offering as well as leveraging Curtiss-Wright's supply chain management to further improve Williams' cost structure.
Also as previously noted we intend to expand our industrial presence in India using Williams' facility as a base to further increase the worldwide penetration of both our sensors and electronic throttle controls.
In addition we remain focused on growing Williams sales to the industrial off-highway vehicle market by driving synergies that include cross-selling and marketing new business through existing Curtiss-Wright relationships.
Thus far Williams is tracking in line with plan financially and ahead of plan in terms of integration.
Next the PG Drives where we've made solid progress year-to-date.
This includes the integration of industrial sales and marketing teams and the consolidation of U.S.
and China sales offices.
Elsewhere despite ongoing industry issues that are impacting the U.S.
medical mobility market PG Drives has experienced solid growth in 2013 due to solid power chair system sale.
This includes growth in BRIC economies particularly in Russia and Brazil.
PG Drives also experienced growth in industrial market sales for new forklift truck motor controllers as we continue to win share from competitors.
Next I wanted to highlight a recent positive development that exemplifies the benefits of our business strategy and our ability to leverage the combination of our sensor businesses.
PG Drives recently executed a favorable global supply agreement that benefits all 3 of our recent sensor and Controls acquisitions.
And will provide various components that are widely used in sensors and joysticks.
Looking ahead we are evaluating further facility consolidations and additional integration initiatives including leveraging Curtiss-Wright's supply chain management.
At this time PG Drives is on plan financially and ahead of plan in integration.
Let's move on to Exlar.
We continue to focus on lowering Exlar's cost base increasing their competitiveness and expanding their distribution network of industry-leading electromechanical actuation products.
Thus far we have leveraged Curtiss-Wright's supply chain management and implemented various cost reduction and lean initiatives.
We're also leveraging Exlar's motor design expertise to enhance our legacy designs by employing technology-sharing through aerospace and industrial engineering groups and jointly integrated R&amp;D programs.
We have begun cross-marketing new business engagement through existing Curtiss-Wright relationships as well.
Moving forward this should enable us to increase Exlar's end market penetration in the commercial aerospace defense and adjacent industrial markets.
It also opens the door for future expansion of their customer base by leveraging Curtiss-Wright's global exposure throughout both our Controls and Flow Control segments.
Thus far Exlar's integration and financials are tracking in line with plan.
Next an update on Gartner.
Aside from focusing on various cost reduction and lean initiatives we launched a new satellite coatings facility in Houston Texas.
It's designed for the efficient handling and coating of drill pipes pump motors and other processing equipment serving Gartner's oil and gas customers its largest end market.
As for next steps we expect to leverage the significant cross-synergies between Gartner and our existing thermal spray businesses seeking to penetrate new markets and new geographies.
We are also evaluating the ability for technology transfer and insertion across existing facilities and the integration of existing Curtiss-Wright coating technologies into Gartner facilities for increased pursuit of aftermarket applications.
This includes increased penetration of advanced industrial gas turbine coatings in the electric power generation market and wear-resistant coatings in the aerospace market just to name a few.
Gartner is above plan in terms of both financials and integration.
Next an update on AP Services because as is typical with niche nuclear aftermarket acquisitions we have fully integrated AP Services product line and sales team in the Curtiss-Wright's market-leading global distribution network.
We also migrated their ERP and financial reporting systems on the Curtiss-Wright's platform.
As for next steps we'll look to continue to lower their cost base.
AP Services is currently tracking in line with plan.
I also wanted to mention that AP Services recently won the Utilities Service Alliance Material Supplier of the Year Award for the fourth consecutive time a fantastic achievement and recognition of their innovative high-quality products and services to the nuclear power industry.
Moving over to Phönix.
As we've stated there are significant opportunities for global expansion and cross-selling as Phönix provides an entrée for our products into key geographies in both Europe and Asia.
Thus far we have begun extensive training of our U.S.-based Curtiss-Wright sales teams to represent Phönix throughout North America as significant synergies are expected based upon the combined efforts of our 2 sales forces.
As for next steps we will continue to leverage our sales and marketing capabilities to expand Flow Control's global sales channels.
We expect this acquisition to help Flow Control expand its product offering in the refining industry with the addition of Phönix's coker switch and isolation products as well as other valve products.
Phönix also provides Curtiss-Wright with increased nuclear opportunities in Europe.
The business currently designs and manufactures product which meets the quality specifications for the supply of parts and components of French reactors known in the industry as RCC-M.
This will provide expanded opportunities to support the construction of Areva's new build plant design where Phönix has a substantial pipeline for nuclear proposals as well as additional prospects in the service upgrade and plant life extension of existing Areva-designed plants particularly in Europe.
Integration is progressing well.
And Phönix is currently tracking in line with plan.
Next to Cimarron which continues to provide solid opportunities to expand our sales in the upstream oil and gas market and to help improve Flow Control's overall profitability in the long run.
The business has made steady progress with the implementation of their lean manufacturing and computerized maintenance management systems which should provide material cost savings over time.
As we noted on the previous call Cimarron was anticipating the need to make a significant investment in plant capacity in the near future to meet their rapidly growing demand.
With available capacity and capabilities at our existing Houston facility we have developed an in-sourcing plant to service Cimarron's extra capacity needs and increase our overall capacity utilization.
We also have absorbed almost $1 million in transfer and learning curve costs.
And despite that impact we've increased Flow Control's profitability during the first 6 months of 2013.
This internal support has allowed Cimarron to achieve record sales in May and June with the expectations of this trend to continue to grow through the year.
Houston production is ramping up quickly.
And the implementation of lean production techniques is also progressing very nicely.
Lean flow lines have been implemented on 2 Cimarron products being built in Texas the 16-inch and 24-inch sand traps which play a key role in the separation process.
And all other product lines will follow suit.
Our expectation is to achieve at least a 20% improvement in productivity compared to the original benchmark as well as the potential for significant incremental sales.
As noted on our prior call we believe this integration initiative has the potential to generate additional sales for Cimarron and Curtiss-Wright in excess of $40 million beginning as early as 2014 which would also substantially improve Flow Control's profitability.
Overall this is an excellent example of synergies between our businesses.
As we progress through this integration it will offset some of the overhead under-absorption that we have experienced over the last several years as a result of downstream refining market weakness.
Cimarron is also at a solid position to grow its emission control devices business with 4 of its 5 designs having passed the EPA-mandated test.
The fifth device is in final testing.
We should have a decision before the end of the year.
Cimarron remains in an exciting position to become the first fabricator to have its devices certified to meet the EPA's new standard of governing the destruction of harmful vapors.
Thus far Cimarron is tracking well ahead of plan in terms of integration and tracking on plan financially despite the absorption of nearly $2 million expected by the end of the year.
Finally I wanted to revisit our 2013 guidance by end market.
As we've continued to highlight we have built a very diversified and balanced portfolio across the defense energy and commercial industrial markets.
And this will remain a core component of Curtiss-Wright's long-term plan.
We employ a strategy of growing through niche acquisitions to complement our organic growth which we believe has positioned Curtiss-Wright for tremendous future opportunities to expand our sales and profitability.
Although we've had some economic and market-driven challenges during the past few years unrelated to our acquisitions we have successfully executed on this strategy throughout the past decade.
Additionally we have grown into new markets and geographies and gained new customers all the while enhancing the acquired company's cost structure and distribution.
So while we've taken some time to digest the most recent acquisitions we remain on the lookout for additional opportunities to expand the depth and breadth of our markets and customer base and continue to successfully grow Curtiss-Wright.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Marty for his final comments before we wrap up the call.
Well thank you Dave.
We are pleased with the solid first half performance and remain confident in our outlook for strong double-digit growth in sales operating income earnings per share.
As Dave highlighted the integration of our most recent acquisitions is going very well.
The continued dedication and focus of our management teams to generate margin expansion and improve cash flow reflects our ongoing operational excellence and lean initiatives and positions Curtiss-Wright very well for the future.
I'd like now to highlight some key factors affecting some of our end markets.
Starting in defense following the implementation of sequestration in March we have seen modest reductions where you expect them to be such as troop-carrying vehicles and related platforms tied to reduction in oversee forces.
While there hasn't been any specific platforms that have been cut as a result of sequestration we are seeing a widespread and direct impact through revolver incoming order rates particularly in the aerospace and ground defense markets.
However based on our previous actions that began in 2012 and was implemented well in advance of anticipated decline in sales we have actually expanded our operating margins in these defense markets in 2013 and expect to continue this trend in the future.
As Glenn noted earlier our outlook in the aerospace and ground defense market remains -- really reflects our expectation for continued lower order rates in 2013.
And our sales guidance remains unchanged.
Regarding the fiscal 2014 budget request the navy defense outlook appears to be positive while the picture in the aerospace and ground defense remain cloudy.
Shipbuilding remains at the top of the DOD's priority and will likely suffer fewer cuts than any other program areas.
The DOD's changed and strategic focus to the specific end Asia places key emphasis on the U.S.
Navy fleet.
This support a strong shipbuilding budget in the coming years particularly for the Virginia attack submarine the Ford aircraft carrier and the DDG-51 destroyers which are Curtiss-Wright's 3 most important shipbuilding program.
In addition the DOD continues to fund the future of a lot class submarine where we expect substantial content.
While it is still a bit early to tell we do believe sequestration could have a more material impact in 2014 than we are currently experiencing in 2013 particularly in our Controls business.
Although the specific impacts of those cuts on our business is impossible to predict at this time.
However we'd expect our leverage in the commercial market will more than offset any anticipated impact from sequestration.
Next an update in power generation starting with the AP1000 program.
Overall we made solid progress in the production and shipments of reactor coolant pump or RCPs.
During the second quarter we shipped 2 RCPs required for Sanmen Unit 1 in China meeting our customer's schedules for the first plant.
We are working to get 2 to 4 additional pumps ready for shipments in China in the third quarter.
Regarding the 4 pumps that were impacted by the defective impeller our claim against the supplier continues to proceed through the legal process.
These pumps are on their way back to the U.S.
for new parts will be shipped back in 2014.
As a reminder we do not expect any additional costs to impact our business due to this issue nor should it affect the China AP1000 build program.
As we previously stated we expect our next AP1000 order to come from China later this year.
However we do not have any additional clarity on the size or scope of the order at this time.
In addition we had discussions with a China utility and Westinghouse for providing RCPs directly for instead of future plants beyond the immediate follow-on plants.
In the U.S.
we're on track to ship our first 2 RCPs in the fourth quarter and remain on schedule at Westinghouse.
In addition I'd like to provide some highlights regarding our aftermarket nuclear business.
As it pertains to Fukushima Response initiatives our Flow Control business continues to have success in capturing new awards resulting from NRC's Order 1 2 and 3 with current awards totaling $11 million including an award for a second fuel pool level indication system.
We have $34 million in proposals outstanding which may be awarded throughout the next 12 to 24 months.
And this addresses only the first phase of awards being issued.
We were awarded over $11 million in new orders in the second quarter specifically assisting plants in solving their obsolescence issue.
We have another additional $21 million in current proposals that were expected to be awarded this year.
Internationally we continue to see a significant increase in new orders as foreign plants address similar obsolescence issues as U.S.
plants.
We continue to see strong order activity supporting plant upgrades and modifications as Flow Control's installed base of an equipment continues to provide a platform to assist plants and maintaining their existing equipment support of their expanded installed base resulting in more than $30 million of new orders.
Furthermore increased sales year-to-year reflects the ongoing strong demand for Curtiss-Wright's equipment in support of existing operating reactors despite fewer outages this year.
Finally the MRO market remains strong with steady growth in Korea Canada and Europe.
Finally small modular reactors or SMRs continue to gain both momentum -- both in the United States and internationally.
Curtiss-Wright continues to be sought after for our nuclear experience expertise innovation and design of critical components that are unique to SMR.
In the last quarter we began to receive engineering contracts for various components.
While the value of these contracts are relatively small to start when these plants are built we expect Curtiss-Wright's products to be built into the design.
In summary as you have heard so far today we continue to position Curtiss-Wright for strong profitable growth in the future.
Furthermore we expect this growth to be complemented by our disciplined and balanced capital allocation strategy.
This includes paying down our existing debt along with our commitment to returning capital to shareholders in the form of dividends.
In fact on May 14 the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock which was an 11% increase compared to the prior dividend.
The increase reflects our confidence in the company's ability to continue to deliver strong revenue and profitable growth as we execute our strategic plan.
Looking ahead we're in the planning stage for an Investor's Day likely to take place later in the year.
So please be on the lookout for that announcement in the near future.
And we hope that you can attend.
At this time I'd like to open today's conference call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Steve Levenson from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations Marty on [indiscernible] decision.
And congratulations Dave and good luck going forward.
Just repeat congratulations then on being able to get to the point of making your decisions and to Dave on his promotion and to the future.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And in relation to margin improvement is that pretty much all from integration? Or are you seeing share gains from things like the PG Drives supply agreement you mentioned earlier? Well when you take a look at our margin expansion a lot of it comes from investments that we've made where we've expanded into Mexico both in our aerospace and sensor.
We're seeing some very good pickups.
And in fact we expect more than $10 million of additional profitability this year on cost reductions alone.
And we also are trying to -- investments are paying off.
So you're starting to see some of the investments that we've made.
It takes a while to transfer all of the product that we have into Mexico.
We're still not at peak performance yet.
Colatro we just started this year.
We're seeing some good returns from it but realistically have not yet seen the best production and utilization out of those plants yet as well as China.
So you're starting to see a combination of a couple of things taking place.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A question on order rates on defense.
Even though you don't see an immediate impact from sequestration do you think this is in part due to furloughs of contracting personnel that seems to slow down workflow in the government? Or do you think this is more of a trend? I think it's kind of more of a trend.
I think that realistically we haven't had any organic growth this year.
And a lot of it is that even though we've made good gains on the commercial side the military side has been reduced.
Even though that it's not sequestration we're seeing a direct -- indirect impact of sequestration but in the areas that we expect it.
And realistically even in the aerospace defense you may be cutting down on military aircraft.
But we make commercial aircraft in the same plant.
So we're really not seeing that much of an effect from a utilization standpoint.
The other thing on your first question Steve I might have missed that.
Realistically a lot of the inventory writeoffs where our acquisitions are over with.
From the third quarter on we're actually going to see another $11 million pickup in profitability off the acquisitions.
So I think I missed that aspect of your question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Last one in the M&amp;A pipeline I know it's been a bit slower.
We launch -- should -- part of that is you referenced to integrate.
But are you seeing things that are still well-priced or are multiples beginning to get a little expensive? I'll talk to that Marty.
We have a pipeline that's fairly filled with opportunity.
And it always sees -- we see it across-the-board there.
Some are pricier than we might have expected.
But overall I don't think that we're seeing much of a delta between the last several years expectation-wise and what we expect to pay.
So what we saw last year was with all things loosened up towards the second half.
And we are very helpful that some things will happen this year.
We're positive that some of these will be carried forward.
So we have not seen a lot of change in that.
And our next question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Marty congratulations.
Dave good luck.
Thanks Myles.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations too but good luck.
So can you start with the acquisitions first? I think previously the 2013 accretion was going to be $0.12.
I think it was $0.06 diluted in the first quarter a penny I guess accretive here in the second quarter.
Is the $0.12 for the full year still the right number going or has that actually moved higher? No it's still the same.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you -- another clarification.
Glenn you mentioned the $0.03 hit in the quarter or $3 million hit in the quarter from the charge on a curtailment but the corporate expense actually went down.
Is that where the curtailment was? The curtailment would be in the corporate expense yes.
Research Division</strong> And then for the full year corporate expense went down though? By a $1 billion.
The corporate expense is up in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Sorry I meant in the guidance for the full year? Oh yes yes yes.
Well because the pension -- just to explain what happened.
The board approved an amendment to the Curtiss-Wright plan which resulted in the curtailment charge in the second quarter.
But as a result of the curtailment we were also able to perform a remeasurement of the plans assets and liabilities.
If you look at the balance sheet you probably would have seen quite large like $45 million reduction in our pension liability.
But also we were able to adjust the discount rate up.
So you will see favorable pension lower pension in the second half of the year of about $2 million as an offset.
So for the year we're kind of -- it's almost awash.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then looking into next year given the remeasurement can I now think about pension being or given where discount rates do you have any feel for given the adjustments plus the discount rate where you're thinking in terms of...
Again we're going to go through this again in the fall.
And I -- we think as they're going out it would look we might have an opportunity to increase the discount rate again if things continue this way.
And it's -- I think the sensitivity is about $2 million in expense for every quarter point.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Dave on the business can you talk about orders at a high level in general? And you've been at a pretty steady backlog here for a number of years in a couple of dynamics going on between the AP1000 and defense as an end market in general.
But you've been at this $1.6 billion $1.7 billion backlog for I guess 5 years now.
Is there a big shift coming? Have we anniversaried a lot of the burn-off of the Chinese orders? Can you just talk about that in general over the next 6 to 12 months? Yes.
I don't see a big change there.
We've been talking about receiving a big order toward the second -- other than the second half of this year from China.
We still anticipate that.
So yes we're very optimistic about that.
So -- and I really don't see much of a delta from what we've seen over the last couple of years.
If anything there should be a...
There should be a bump yes.
And our next question comes from Elizabeth Grenfell from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions.
The first one on the Surface Technologies margins for the rest of the year what is baked in that's going to make them lower than the second quarter's 18.5%? Yes.
It's really a couple of things.
For one the second quarter just to comment on the first half in the second quarter in particular was has been a record production at our facility that services Airbus which is it's like the high-margin facility and a fusion [ph] facility.
So part of it's timing.
It should because that's going to be lower in the second half.
So kind of the way that fell throughout the year.
What happened is in the summertime there is some shutdowns in the aerospace industry of which Surface Technology has over 50% of their volume is in aerospace commercial aerospace.
So that's why the reason why you see a little bit of a dip in the second half as our third quarter normally goes down historically.
And also there are some new greenfields.
So it's a couple of -- with some startups in the second half that are not in the first half.
So we're not ready for -- I mean we're at 17.1% year-to-date.
And our guidance is just below that.
So it's not down tremendously but it'll be a bit lower than the first half.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well sequentially it will be down about 200 basis points or so? Yes.
It's probably in that area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any word on the AP1000 order from the Chinese? Any update? Well the only update is that we are in negotiation which still goes back and forth between the quantity and the participation.
But we do expect they'd be resolved within the third or fourth quarter.
So -- and that fits in our the timing of what we'd like to get a new order to come in to order to have contiguous production.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just one last question.
Eagle had a statement out yesterday on the strategic choices in management or view sort of outlying a couple of options for the future the DOD.
And I was just curious what steps Curtiss-Wright is taking given that the carrier groups could shrink from 11 to 8 or 9.
They could take a modernization holiday.
Well how are you thinking about it strategically from your point of view? From our point of view right now there is a lot of strong support for keeping the carrier task force the way it is.
As I said during my presentation that the strategic focus is they shifted to Asia Pacific.
And realistically the first response you have are aircraft carriers.
So we really don't see us or in the United States going through that type of change which is quite a bit.
And our next question comes from Michael Ciarmoli from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Great job and congratulations as you retire here and leave the business in good hands with Dave.
Congrats.
Can you just -- the organic growth in the quarter no surprise.
But can you give us an update I mean organic growth expectations for the full year? And maybe if you can help us -- I'm assuming defense organically will be down.
Can you give us a sense of maybe where both sides of the business will be from a revenue growth standpoint on an organic basis? I think the second half there we haven't really changed our expectation for -- to be basically flat organically for the year.
So we will have some organic growth that we're expecting in the second half of the year Mike.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And assuming that there will be more of that organic growth to be skewed on the commercial side? That is correct.
That is correct.
Research Division</strong> And what about -- just on the margins here I think you mentioned 10.3% kind of excluding some of the acquisition headwinds.
What are you guys -- what should we be thinking about future margin expansion? You just mentioned some greenfield facilities in Surface.
I would imagine as utilization improves that will help.
It sounds like you've got a lot of synergies left.
It sounds like you're going to get some pension tailwinds next year.
How should we be thinking about these margins continuing to build over the next 6 12 months and beyond? Well I think Mike if you take a look at -- first of all our acquisitions are going to be more profitable next year.
We also when we talked about the gas and oil where we are adding taking systems from Simran and making them [indiscernible] Houston.
That should give us a very very good pump.
We will not have crossed over from until the very end of this year where we'll actually be hit our cost requirement about the 20% improvement at least that Dave was talking about will take place throughout '14.
So you're going to see a nice bump in '14 and then also another nice bump in '15.
And as I talked about the plants that we've put into Mexico and -- or 2 plants that we've put in Mexico we already received a $4 million improvement to-date on just one of them.
When I say to-date I mean within this year.
And that's going to continue on.
Both plants will actually be more efficient next year and also our plant in China.
So over the next 6 months to the next year or the 2-year we expect our margins to grow quite a bit.
And our next question comes from Jim Foung from Gabelli.
Inc.</strong> Congratulations to both Marty and David.
Marty great job and then Dave welcome and good luck in your -- in the future.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Inc.</strong> I guess -- and the first question is on your acquisitions.
You -- was good enough to break out the acquisition contribution.
And the margins you say in the second quarter was about 5%.
Could you just talk about the margin progression over the next 12 to 24 months how you see that growing? And when do you expect that to kind of get back -- to get to your corporate average? Well as we talked about forward we're going to see a bump immediately in the second quarter obviously to get to from $0.05 to $0.12 for the year each within the second half.
So we get a bump and it's primarily due to the burn-off of the inventory step which is pretty much done at the end of the second quarter.
And then I think Marty has indicated going into 2014 we're going to see even better growth in that from the acquisitions as well so...
Inc.</strong> But when do you think those margins can reach the corporate level rate? We're going to keep stretching them as we keep raising the corporate rate.
We have to -- we said that we -- it takes at least we say 3 years has been an average of getting acquisitions up.
It's not -- I'm not saying to exactly get to our level of margin but pretty close to it.
That's kind of...
2 to 3 years 2 to 3 years yes.
Inc.</strong> 2 to 3 years? Okay all right.
So no change there then.
And then Marty you talked about I guess sequestration not being -- as a bigger impact issue anticipated this year.
But then 2014 could be I guess harder.
Could you just kind of expand on that in terms of do you see your overall defense sales to be down even more in 2014 than this year? Well the thing is that we actually could do a little bit better from the sales standpoint in 2014 based on some modernization programs of the Bradley and a lot of the ground vehicle.
We should be getting above that of the Navy.
But then again sequestration could take away all those modernization programs away which wouldn't even hurt us but it just wouldn't help us.
So 2014 it's hard to go through the pluses and minuses.
It's just that we deliver the organization.
We did it in anticipation of sequestration.
Some of our businesses are not affected because we're making commercial product there greater than what the military has gone down.
So when we look at it we're not really that -- it's not that bothersome for us.
We have enough leverage in the commercial side the pickup from the commercial side that we should do very well for ourselves in spite of what we could even anticipate going on in sequestration for 2014.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Tyler Hojo from Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Let me also just add my congratulations to both Marty and Dave.
Well thank you.
LLC</strong> You're welcome.
So just kind of to continue along the margin dialogue.
Certainly it was nice to see the margins step in the Controls segment this quarter.
I'm hoping that maybe you could talk a little bit about what your confidence level is in achieving the margin gains in the back half that are implied in the guidance? Also if we look back to your 2012 guidance for that segment it kind of implied that you'd be up towards I think like the 16% or 17% range in the fourth quarter of the year.
Do you think you can get back to those levels? Tyler are you just talking about Controls? LLC</strong> Yes just Controls.
Oh okay.
Well on the Controls side one of the things is they probably got hit the most when it came to having less orders on the military side.
So the reorganization that they did and the additional profitability they're getting out of their low-cost plants in China and Mexico has been able to actually improve their margins.
And we see that going forward throughout the remainder of the year.
And Tyler just to put in perspective.
I mean the second half of the year Controls has about $28 million in incremental sales $21 million of it is organic.
So we'll get approximately $8 million of additional OI in H2 just from the incremental organic sales or the organic company sales.
The acquisitions are going to be up about $7 million in sales in the second half which is going to yield $7 million of OI.
Part of that's margin and part of it is the burn-off of the inventory step as I talked about you'll see in the second half of the year.
They have $7 million of cost reductions and operational excellence improvements.
Marty referred to the low-cost economy gains that Controls will see in the second half of the year and some other minor onetime things that hit the first half that aren't going to cut $1 million or $2 million.
And that will incur at the second half.
So we have a pretty good roadmap of getting them to their full-year margins.
And sequentially they're probably going to improve sequentially just to give you an idea of how their year's going to lay out for the year improvements.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And also do you happen to have the backlog by segment? Yes.
Flow Control's 1.1 and Controls is 0.6.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And just in regards to the defective impeller supplier could you just update us on how you've replaced that supplier? Is it single sourced at this point? Or do you have more than one supplier on that? Right now it's single sourced but we are looking at developing.
I think we may even have a second source I'm not sure.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And the last question for me it is just on the nuclear aftermarket.
Obviously it's been a source of strength for you all last handful of quarters.
I mean how long is the tail that you see on that? I mean...
It's a long long long time.
If you take a look at the fact that we're at our lowest outage so just outages go up the Fukushima Initiatives the obsolescence that when we talk about obsolescence in the United States remember the United States has the first nuclear build program from our nuclear technology.
And then expand out to the rest of the world.
So the same obsolescence that we'd seen in the United States is also going to take place throughout the world.
And that we have coverage throughout the world.
And most of the plants are kind of Westinghouse plants or familiar with them Areva which we have installed base or Korea.
So that's going to continue to grow.
So we look at the aftermarket as continue to go on for a long long period of time.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Just one follow-on to that.
I mean you've been tracking around $117 million $118 million in terms of nuclear -- in terms of your nuclear business.
How much of that would you say is aftermarket relative to new build? Aftermarket and power gen? LLC</strong> Yes.
About 2/3.
Thank you.
And I'm not showing any further questions.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Benante for any further remarks.
Well thank you very much for joining us today.
And we also look forward to speaking with you during our third quarter 2013 earnings call.
And also we'd love to see you at our Investor Day.
Have a good one.
Take care.
Bye bye.
Goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Curtiss-Wright Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call will be recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Martin Benante.
You may begin.
Well thank you Katharine and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Curtiss-Wright's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
On the previous call we announced the company's leadership transition plan whereby Dave Adams assented to the role of CEO.
And as a result I want to officially pass the baton to Dave to lead Curtiss-Wright's future earnings conference calls.
I've generally enjoyed the experience that has taken place over the past 14 years including the opportunity to discuss our successes and challenges as we have grown to a successful $2.5 billion corporation.
The interaction with the investment community has been extremely rewarding.
I want to thank all of you for your continued interest in Curtiss-Wright over the years and I'm confident that you will be in great hands with Dave and our new management team leading the way.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn for a review of our financial performance.
Glenn? Thank you Marty.
Our call today is being webcast.
And the press release as well as a copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties.
And we detailed those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company's website.
For our agenda today I will provide you with an overview of Curtiss-Wright's third quarter 2013 performance and financial outlook followed by Dave who will provide an update on our recent acquisitions and integration status before we open the call for questions.
Overall our third quarter results were solid.
Adjusting for the onetime items that impacted our 2012 results namely the strike AP1000 investments and lower associated compensation costs and flow control and restructuring cost in all 3 segments operating income was up 40% on a 25% increase in sales leading to a 140-basis-point operating margin improvement to 10.5%.
Our organic operating margin which excludes acquisitions and FX was 11.1% up 200 basis points from adjusted 2012.
Overall our diluted EPS was $0.76 for the quarter exceeding our expectations.
These results reflect the benefits of our previously implemented restructuring and operational improvement initiatives most notably in the Controls and Surface Technologies segments.
Our 7 acquisitions that were completed in Q4 2012 and Q1 2013 contributed more than $100 million in sales $6 million in operating income 90 basis points in operating margin dilution and $0.04 accretion to diluted earnings per share in the third quarter.
Next I want to provide some color on the segment drivers of third quarter operating income and margin.
Operating income for Q3 2012 adjusted for the aforementioned onetime items is shown in the fourth column of this table shaded in blue.
The majority of the onetime impacts occurred in the Flow Control segment.
So comparing to last year adjusted for those onetime items current year operating income increased 15% while operating margin decreased 50 basis points year-over-year to 8%.
However this decrease is primarily due to acquisitions as organic operating margin was 8.6% in the current quarter up 10 basis points compared to adjusted 2012.
In the Controls segment operating income was up 41% and operating margin was up 200 basis points to 15.3% compared to adjusted 2012.
Organic operating margin was 15.8% in the quarter an improvement of 250 basis points from adjusted 2012.
However current year results benefited from lower pension costs at our U.K.
unit.
Excluding the impact of this onetime item in 2013 Controls' operating margin was 14.2% a 90-basis-point improvement over the 2012 adjusted margin of 13.3% despite a 2% drop in organic sales.
And finally in the Surface Technologies segment operating income was up 30% and operating margin was up 200 basis points to 15.3% compared to adjusted 2012.
However organic operating margin was 16.8% in the quarter or an improvement of 350 basis points compared to adjusted 2012.
These results were driven by the benefit of prior restructuring activities as well as continued improvements in operational efficiencies.
Moving on to our end markets I'll begin in our commercial end markets which collectively grew 43% during the third quarter.
This growth is based on strong overall contributions from our acquisitions and solid organic growth of 17% in the commercial aerospace market.
This has been one of our strongest markets as we continue to benefit from the ongoing strength of the OEM cycle and production rate increases across most Boeing and Airbus platforms.
Within the power generation market we experienced healthy organic growth from existing operating reactors through a combination of our solid installed base of products and services and the emerging requirements of the NRC's Tier 1 regulations.
We have achieved strong growth despite fewer planned outages in 2013 which we expect to rebound in 2014.
Meanwhile sales in the oil and gas and general industrial markets were primarily led by acquisitions although we did experience some pockets of strength particularly for global MRO products supporting ongoing refinery maintenance needs in the oil and gas sector.
Our overall guidance within our commercial markets remains unchanged at growth of 30% to 34%.
Moving on third quarter sales in defense decreased 3% overall mainly due to lower demand from several programs within the aerospace and ground defense markets continuing the trend from the first half of the year.
In the naval defense market increased revenues were driven by the Virginia Class submarine and Ford Class aircraft carrier programs as expected providing confidence in our full year sales guidance in this end market.
Meanwhile our outlook in the aerospace and ground defense markets continue to reflect lower incoming order rates.
As a result our 2013 guidance for total defense sales remains unchanged at flat to down 4% and does not include any specific impact for sequestration at this time.
You can find the complete table of our guidance by end market in the appendix as well as in the earnings press release.
Moving on to our financial outlook full year 2013 sales growth of 18% to 20% remains unchanged from our previous guidance as does our guidance for operating income operating margin and diluted earnings per share.
In addition we expect our recent acquisitions of Arens Controls and Parvus to contribute an additional $20 million in sales in the fourth quarter and approximately $0.03 in EPS dilutions which we expect to be somewhat dilutive to the Controls segment's full year operating margin.
However despite this dilution we do expect to be near the high-end of our guidance range for full year 2013 sales and diluted earnings per share.
Year-to-date we have produced strong cash flow from operations of nearly $135 million that led to a $77 million in free cash flow during the first 9 months of 2013.
This is an all-time record high for us at this point in the year.
As a result of the strong year-to-date performance and our expectations for continued improvements in working capital in capital allocations during the fourth quarter we again raised our free cash flow guidance by $10 million to a range of $110 million to $120 million for 2013.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave to provide some updates on our recent acquisitions and future outlook.
Dave? Thanks Glenn.
Similar to last quarter I want to take a few minutes to review some of our recent acquisitions.
Let's start Parvus which was a highly sought-after business pursued by numerous embedded computing competitors.
Curtiss-Wright was deemed to be the best fit for Parvus based on our leading distribution network solid infrastructure and geographic fit which we believe will help fuel the global expansion of the products.
This business builds a rugged computed market space need for Curtiss-Wright adding size weight power and cost or SWaP-C optimize subsystem capabilities in an area that we have been looking to grow.
Their compact modules nicely complement Curtiss-Wright's existing range of larger higher performance commercial-off-the-shelf or COTS solutions.
Parvus provides opportunities to extend our combined technologies into new complementary markets in particular the industrial markets where we continue to differentiate and diversify our business.
Parvus' ability to address the lower cost segments of the defense market should open up potential new opportunities in this market such as tactical wheeled vehicle platforms and upgrade programs for both the U.S.
Army and the U.S.
Marine Corps.
In addition our expansion into the rugged industrial market will be enabled through Parvus' rapid development processes and experience providing rapid integrations of commercial electronics into low-cost deployable rugged systems.
Integration is underway and we're on plan thus far.
Next to Arens Controls which further strengthens and grows our industrial Controls business and provides increased penetration within the commercial and the off-road vehicle markets.
Arens is the market leader in the U.S.
for highly-engineered electronic shift controls for automatic transmissions used on heavy trucks and buses.
The company also designs and manufactures power management and traction systems which will provide us with an entrée into the emerging hybrid vehicle market.
Arens strengthens Curtiss-Wright's position in 2 key industrial market areas.
First Arens supplies market-leading products to the medium and heavy truck and bus markets that are complementary to Williams Controls products and customer base.
Second Arens supplies throttle and hydraulic control products to the off-road vehicle market that are complementary to the Penny and Giles and Williams sensor product line again going into the same industrial customer base.
In addition we expect to reduce Arens' future costs by leveraging Curtiss-Wright's existing China manufacturing and sourcing arrangements.
Sales and marketing team integration has begun and we're on plan thus far.
Continuing with the industrial market theme I want to provide a quick update on our other acquisitions in the space.
For Williams we are expecting to leverage their facility in India for selected product transfers and new business awards further enhancing our global industrial presence.
We're also exploring new opportunities with expanding product offerings and growth into the utility vehicle segment.
For PG Drives we continue to expand our global industrial presence with new applications in Russia and Germany.
Moving forward we will continue to leverage Curtiss-Wright's supply chain across all of our industrial Controls businesses.
We also expect new opportunities for supply chain synergies to arise with the recent Arens and Parvus acquisitions.
Overall the combination of these industrial acquisitions broadens our total addressable market for industrial controls and brings Curtiss-Wright one step closer towards our vision in this key market to be the supplier of choice for operator control subsystems and critical drivetrain components in specialty vehicles.
Next to Cimarron which continues to track well ahead of plan in terms of integration.
As previously noted we are using our existing Houston operations to support Cimarron's rapidly growing demand.
Our existing sites have been ramping up quickly and we are implementing a lean operating system that has contributed to record sales in Q3 for Cimarron.
This year we have absorbed $3 million in transfer and learning curve costs.
As noted on our protocol we believe this integration initiative has the potential to improve Flow Control's profitability starting in 2014.
The implementation of lean principles is expected to help lower total cost improve throughput and reduce lead time in order to support the increased demand for several of our product lines.
Over time our goal is to reduce total cost by 10% while doubling capacity and halving lead time.
Next an update on our emission control devices business where the last of their 5 devices has passed EPA testing and its certification application has been submitted to the government.
We expect it will be one of the first fabricators certified to meet the EPA's new standard governing the destruction of harmful vapors.
As a testament to this growing portion of the business Cimarron received an order for our high valve emission control devices for delivery in December.
Overall Cimarron continues to provide solid opportunities to expand our sales in the upstream oil and gas market and is an excellent example of generating synergies from an acquisition.
We remain encouraged that this integration along with our continued focus on improving operational efficiencies will help improve Flow Control's overall profitability in the long run.
Finally our remaining acquisitions are attracting the end line with plan in terms of integration.
We'll share more details about these exciting acquisitions in December.
Next I'd like to highlight some of the key macro factors affecting our end market.
I'll begin in power generation starting with the AP1000 program.
We continue to make solid progress in the production and shipment of our reactor coolant pumps or RCPs for both the China and U.S.
reactors.
During the third quarter we shipped 2 RCPs required for Sanmen Unit 1 in China meeting our customer's schedule for the first plant.
We are working to get 4 to 6 additional pumps ready for shipment to China in the fourth quarter.
In addition we have successfully completed production testing of the first domestic pump.
We have negotiated a 2-year extension of the technology transfer agreement from our initial 2007 contract and are awaiting sign off by our Chinese customer.
Regarding our next AP1000 order we expect to receive a follow-on order from China in the very near future.
Our mutual goal is to have a formally signed agreement in place by the end of the year.
In addition I want to provide some highlights regarding our aftermarket nuclear business.
As it pertains to Fukushima response initiatives we have captured more than $14 million in new awards resulting from NRC orders 1 2 and 3 and have $30 million in proposals outstanding.
The timing of those awards is expected to occur within the next 12 to 24 months.
We were also awarded over $13 million in new orders in the third quarter specifically related to assisting plants in solving their obsolescence issues.
We have nearly $20 million in additional proposals that we expect to be awarded by year end.
Overall we continue to experience increased sales and strong demand for Curtiss-Wright equipment in support of existing operating reactors despite fewer outages than last year.
Next to the defense market starting with an update in aerospace and ground defense.
We continue to experience improved profitability in these markets most visible within our Controls segment despite the anticipated declines in sales.
This is a function of our restructuring actions that began in 2012 to address the lower intake of order rates a trend we expect to continue in the future.
Clearly we remain in an uncertain budget environment.
As we've previously noted while there haven't been any specific platforms that have been cut as a result of sequestration we have seen a widespread indirect impact on Curtiss-Wright through lower incoming order rates.
As announced here the DoD will be operating under a continuing resolution for the foreseeable future this trend is likely to continue.
The most significant hurdles to overcome are likely to be the funding for new start programs and potential for in sourcing by the primes.
We will continue to prudently monitor the ongoing budget negotiations and react appropriately including further restructuring if warranted.
As for the fiscal 2014 defense budget request the naval defense outlook appears to be very positive as shipbuilding remains near the top of the DoD's priorities while the picture in aerospace and ground defense remains less certain.
Despite the uncertainty we expect our leverage in the commercial markets at 70% of our projected 2013 total sales will more than offset any anticipated impacts from sequestration in the defense markets.
So to recap we're pleased with the solid year-to-date performance of our organic businesses as well as our recent acquisitions.
This performance along with our continued focus on improving operating margin keeps us on track for strong double-digit increases for the top and bottom line in 2013.
We expect the combination of these factors to provide momentum for further improvement heading into 2014 and we will provide more visibility on our future expectations in December.
Effective with this morning's announcement and in recognition of the significant contributions for the profitable growth and consistent operating margin expansion of Curtiss-Wright Controls Tom Quinly has been promoted to Chief Operating Officer of Curtiss-Wright.
I would like to publicly congratulate Tom on his new position and wish him continued success at Curtiss-Wright.
Overall with continued dedication and focus of our management teams to generate margin expansion and improve cash flow positions Curtiss-Wright very well for the future.
Furthermore we expect our growth to be complemented by a disciplined and balanced capital allocation strategy.
Finally we will be hosting an Investor Day in New York on December 11 which will include a preview of our 2014 guidance as well as our margin expansion and capital deployment opportunities.
Please be on the lookout for the agenda and registration details in the next few days and we hope that you can attend.
At this time I would like to open up today's conference call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Steve Levenson with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to argue with what you all have been doing over the last year I'm just wondering if there are any holes you think you still have to fill through M&amp;A or if there is much more in the way of R&amp;D going to internally develop other products that you need to completely round out the line? Are you talking '13 or just generally? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Generally.
Certainly not -- beyond the end of this year please.
Sure yes for sure.
We continue a robust R&amp;D program within the Curtiss-Wright.
And especially in those areas that we see not necessarily leapfrogging technologies but potential use of new technologies.
For example on the defense side you look at what's required in the future and you compare what we did with Parvus as being a very strategic acquisition.
And we see a need for a different type of business that we can address which will expand our total available market.
And that is in a different area in both as I described the industrial and on the military side products that are lower cost more power size weight and power as I described.
And R&amp;D is spent towards that sort of an area because it does address the total available market.
In terms of acquisitions both Parvus and Arens are both great examples of what we lay out as a strategic road map in terms of growth.
Arens really addresses the industrial side and how we're going to capture the cabin as it were the Controls within the cabin of off-road vehicles and large vehicles.
And that strategy will continue.
We see a robust market there.
We see growth in the future.
And as I described with Parvus it plays in as well and in the industrial side and in some of the military.
So you're going to see a continued application of strategic spend on the R&amp;D side and certainly a very strategic outlook in area of acquisitions.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And in terms of the R&amp;D do you think it's going to stay at the same level of sales or is there a likelihood that it could increase a little bit? So far we're pretty much staying the course where we're at.
When you look at that annually you look at the spend and the sales in the defense side and we continue to be very robust on the defense side.
But we look at that as a percentage of sales and so it fluctuates.
Our next question comes from Michael Ciarmoli.
Research Division</strong> Just to -- Glenn maybe for clarification.
The Control margin is very solid in the quarter and I think you said there was some pension benefit and that was just one time.
But what should we think I mean this is kind of the best margin performance you put up in Controls in quite some time.
I mean how should we look at this run rate going forward here? Well I mean when you bring the pension -- take pension out it's about $14 million.
Sometimes it's a little bit of timing.
We're sticking with their full year guidance so that that will indicate that the fourth quarter will be somewhat a little bit less than the third quarter.
But again at this point I would just stick with our guidance for the year in terms of our margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what about just looking at kind of this quarter's earnings what's implied for next quarter? It certainly looks like when I look at the acquisition contribution I think the margins on the acquired revenues year-to-date are about 4%.
It seems like the annual earnings power of the company is going to kind of be north of the run rate you're tracking for this year once you strip out those acquisition-related costs you'll get some margin expansion next year.
I mean is that -- I'm just trying to get a sense of how we should be thinking about maybe an earnings starting point or bridging the gap into '14 when you roll off some of the acquisition dilution you probably get some pension tailwinds.
Can you give us any help there or any color? And I know your quarterly earnings are usually a bit more back-end loaded so not fair to take these 2 quarters and run rate it.
But can you give us any kind of color on what the expectations are even for maybe the acquired margins.
I mean again you got 6% contribution or margin in the quarter from the acquisitions but maybe what can we expect? Well we're still again just to put the year in perspective from the recent acquisitions we're still looking at around 12% accretion for the year.
Again most of that is going to come in the fourth quarter or sometime in between the third quarter and fourth quarter.
But we're still on target for that.
Again we would expect to see even more -- the fourth quarter will probably be the most indicative of how those acquisitions will start to perform going forward.
And we would expect improvement from there as we go into 2014.
But of course we will give you all the color at our Investor Day in December Mike.
Pensions we're definitely expecting some tailwinds there.
We just don't know how much.
We will again have that pretty much nailed down for the Investor Day.
But yes we would expect margin expansion in those acquisitions as well as the pension headwinds for sure.
Let me just add Mike that you're -- as you saw it and there was the announcement on Tom and just kind of addressing 2 points.
One on Controls has done well.
Well that's why we've promoted Tom.
And Tom's going to do a great job for us in the area of margin expansion because that's a key performance goal for him going forward in the next several years and also the entire team.
So we're basically inculcating that culture across the enterprise and it's a margin expansion culture.
And so I do believe that -- well I know you're going to see some improvements that's what we're talking about and that's a major goal for all of us.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
That's helpful.
And then just a last one for me and then I'll jump off here.
I've seen some reports on the AP1000 that China has in fact reversed engineered the Westinghouse design and they were looking to potentially sell direct to Pakistan.
Can you give us any color there just given the technology transfer it seems like it hasn't been progressing that fast.
Just trying to make heads or tails out of what I've been reading with some of these broader reports? Sure.
Thanks for the questions.
We saw those -- that media play also a couple of times a few weeks ago and in more recently.
And we have reconfirmed as we did back a few weeks ago that there's no truth to that rumor.
The parts that -- if any are being sold by China are gen 2.
And our AP1000 is a generation 3.
And so if there is any truth to it it's not our AP1000.
And then just adding to that as I indicated on the call just a minute ago we have just recently negotiated our next evolution in technology transfer agreement.
And it's a 2-year agreement and that occurred within the last 7 days.
So it really talks to the perspective that technology transfer is required and that nobody's ready from that perspective in China to be able to do what it is that is purported to be said in this media piece.
As an addition to that we have an agreement with the Chinese that there is no sharing or tech transfer outside of that market.
So we feel very strongly that this is bogus and we have confirmed that with our customer.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Glenn so first 9 months great cash performance.
And no good deed goes unpunished why is it going down in the fourth quarter when seasonally I don't think you've ever done that? Well I think you hit on -- we're trying to be a little conservative a little cautious in that.
And that's really the only answer.
We don't expect our -- necessarily our fourth quarter to be lowest.
But we just want to make sure everything falls into place.
There's a couple of things on the AP1000 some big cash payments we just want to make sure they show up.
And if they do we'll probably meet.
If they don't then we'll probably meet.
Research Division</strong> So if you sign this Chinese order though -- a couple of questions with respect to that.
One is does it come with an advance? Two is what is the size? And then three Dave you talked about the licensing agreement.
And as I recall there are 2 parts of the licensing agreement.
One was tied directly to the hardware and the other was a long-term license that went through 2022.
Is it a 2-year extension on both the hardware piece of the license which I think was like $5 million of EBIT per year as well as the longer-term $3 million a year type pure technology IP license beyond 2022? So this is just the continuation of our recently expired 5-year agreement for additional 2 years.
And then relative to the -- with the order size and advance payment we are in negotiations at this point.
We don't know what that's going to be and because we've been asked for many different variables the X amount content in country X that we would supply.
So we're just not in a position to address that at this point.
But I can tell you there are feet on the ground over there now and have been over the last several weeks in negotiating this.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the other one flow control margins.
So I think organic if I'm using the kind of presentation the right way was 8.6% margins in the quarter and I think if you correct for last year it was maybe 9.5% or so.
8.5% actually.
Research Division</strong> Correcting for last year adding back the 22? Yes that'll be 8.5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay organic margins last year? Just the adjusted.
If you adjust for the onetime items it was 8.5% in the third quarter of '12 versus our organic '13 at 8.6% up slightly.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
What is the potential margin of Flow Control? I imagine it's still under pretty good duress with not a lot of high CapEx oil and gas projects being run through it.
I mean how much drag are we seeing with respect to the oil and gas piece of the business? Well that is the biggest drag.
We got some under absorption with lower volumes on some of these projects.
But on the other hand the other thing we are transitioning the Cimarron product to our Cedar Crossing facility and going through that learning curve.
I think we've talked about it for a couple of quarters now I think it's $3 million to $4 million of learning curve cost that we will incur this year to get those products transitioned down there that will lead to expansion obviously next year.
But...
Research Division</strong> That wouldn't be in the organic piece right? That would -- yes -- no it would be in the organic piece because it's our existing facility that's incurring the cost versus -- for product for Cimarron.
But it's their incur -- the organic business is incurring the cost.
Miles when I look at that at a high level I say to myself out of the 3 segments I look at what happens with Surface Tech we know what happens with Surface Tech and that is as volume goes up margins looking great fixed cost all that stuff.
Controls has done an outstanding job of moving up that chain.
We'll continue to do so.
I look at it as this is my opportunity in the Flow Control side in terms of picking up some margin and it's going to be -- I'll just use one term it's addition by subtraction and one regarding that is relative to what happened to us in oil and gas our end market collapsed that's changing.
We are seeing some improvements there some refinery giving us some orders.
And internationally as well as domestic we're seeing some of the new products that are coming out that are being extremely well received at some of the refineries domestically.
And we haven't even touched Cimarron discussion with what can happen there and the improvements that we're making there in terms of price in terms of cost side and what we're doing in Houston to take up the underutilized factory.
So I really see some opportunity there.
And that's where you're going to see it and obviously oil and gas is a drag right now but it is slowly inching upward.
And I expect that to pick up even more quickly as we get out of this downstream business and into the upstream.
And we've got opportunities to continue to do that.
Research Division</strong> Do I have to -- just last question do I have to see the backlog significantly expand in Flow Control for you to be able to realize that? Or are you able to your point to structurally lower the cost base into effectively deliver more with less? Yes we've absolutely -- we're delivering more with less.
The backlog is there.
There are opportunities.
We've got some low-hanging fruit we're taking advantage of.
And I'm certain that Tom's got that tattooed to his forehead right away.
Our next question comes from Elizabeth Grenfell from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Tyler Hojo from Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> So just a first question.
In regards to the 2 acquisitions that closed in October those are adding I think $20 million.
Just curious if you could maybe comment on what the offset is in regards to the unchanged top line guidance? The 60 businesses a lot of them go up and down if you can imagine.
But we are at -- we were at the midpoint of the range before the recent acquisitions.
And the $20 million pretty much put us at the top end of the range which is what we had said.
So we're still pretty much in line.
We have a lot of puts and takes but were still pretty much in line with our previous guidance plus the acquisition because we said we'd be at the top end and those acquisitions put us at the top end.
LLC</strong> Got it.
Thanks for the clarification on that one.
And then I was just curious I think in Dave's prepared remarks mentioned that one of kind of the impacts from the CR potential concerns was in sourcing from primes.
I think I got that right.
Just curious if you could maybe just discuss what products or platforms you feel are most vulnerable to that? I'll tell you Tyler what we have found and this is through a lot of dialogue with our customer and a lot of dialogue with me personally with our VPs out in the field that run our businesses.
And what I'm seeing is and what we have said before and I stick to it is on the Navy side it's looking really good.
We see the 3 classes of ships that are continuing their build rates something happens it might be a little stretch here and there.
But we're not seeing any major cancellation or anything in those regards with regard to submarines and aircraft carriers and DDGs.
When we talk about the platforms wherein we have our electronics content we have -- as I was talking to one of our vice presidents yesterday we have over 2 000 worldwide customers with -- that represent over 500 programs.
And we've aligned ourselves to have a wide breadth of products on all of different platforms that are represented by the 500 programs.
Not one of which is greater than 4% of our total.
No program represents greater than 4% of our total.
So when we're asked the question which we are often asked about what we expect in the sequestration so forth we don't have an answer.
I will say with regard to the outsourcing and in sourcing I think I know what I said was the threat of in sourcing we always watch that.
But we also watch our design wins extremely carefully.
We are relatively flat year-to-year design wins and that's good because we had a good year last year on design wins.
And given the environment that we're in now I'm really happy to see that we are at least flat if we'd have been down I would have been more concerned.
And that's through third quarter.
And then I also see that what our customers are going through if you look across the defense sector of the marketplace you'll see the layoffs and the redundancies and so forth.
Numbers are heavy and you guys read this stuff all the time.
Numbers are very heavy in terms of people.
We are seeing a little uptick in terms of interest from our customers in saying listen we don't have those internal resources any longer to do what it is that we once were able to do.
Therefore we need you to provide us with the commercial-off-the-shelf subsystem or let's say moving up that food chain slightly to alleviate some of the fitness that they have in their bench strength in terms of technical development of the non-core type electronics that we considered core.
So we look at it as a real opportunity.
We've said that for a long time now.
And it has panned out every year.
So we're looking at it that way and I think I guess you could call it a cup half full but I think it is.
LLC</strong> Okay wonderful.
Just maybe lastly for me.
I think last conference call we were talking about some greenfield investments in Surface Tech kind of hitting in the back half and maybe being a bit of a drag to margin.
Could you maybe just update us on where we stand with some of those investments? Yes.
Yes I will tell you that.
They were about $800 000 drag in the third quarter and we expect it to be another $600 000 probably in the fourth quarter.
So that's an ongoing as you know an ongoing strategy of Surface Technologies.
So I mean it may fluctuate from year-to-year but that is the current year numbers.
One thing I just jump in there and answer that.
We look at that carefully as well from the capital side and you consider some of the greenfields we're migrating from heavy greenfields meaning not as much of an investment going forward whereas we might spend $5 million $10 million on a flat and equipment.
Now we'll go in with maybe $1.5 million $2 million and grow it strategically and over time.
So it sort of not to "build it and it will come" completely but build it partially and offer this or that service and do so at a more moderated rate and amount.
And then secondly the other major emphasis for us that we took on is a strategic priority this year and last year was what we call shop and shop.
And some of the monies that Glenn just described are as a result of shop and shop towards the back half of this year that have the long-term tail on the multi multi millions of dollars where we go in and join with a company of prime for example in their facility we load it with our people and we provide the service and we just rent space.
So it's much less brick-and-mortar expense and thereby giving us a better use of our capital.
Our next question comes from Elizabeth Grenfell of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Dave I just had a question for you now that you've been in the role for several months.
What are you seeing is the biggest challenges and the biggest surprises since you've taken the role? Well I've been here for almost 14 years at Curtiss-Wright.
So I would say that there are no shocks to the system.
And I've been in this job for a grand total of yes you're right maybe 60 days.
So I'm absorbing it quickly.
But having worked closely with Marty over these years and the team the management level of corporate it's not unfamiliar territory to me.
So for me it's really a redefining moment for my vision and the culture that I want to inculcate.
It's very similar to Marty's.
And we're very operationally driven.
I do see a very strong marching order from me as a shareholder as margin expansion.
I look for -- really creating what we consider the improvement in shareholder value and that's what it's all about for me and my job.
And like I said earlier the one low-hanging fruit is in the area of one of our segments and we've identified that.
But it's more strategically looking at the acquisitions that we are going after and do they fit the structure do they fit the roadmap that we've laid out.
And really it's that whole capital allocation plan.
What are we spending our money on how wisely are we using it.
And where are the underperformers what do we have to do with the underperformers to either bring them up to the level that we want to be and I have made it clear that internally and externally that I intend to produce upper quartile business margins and that's by a peer group that I will define.
And that's the expectation for me and my team.
So I don't -- like I said I don't think there are any shockwaves that have hit.
I haven't awakened in a cold sweat yet.
So it's a good thing.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then to you point on as the acquisitions meet the company's strategy.
What metrics are you using in evaluating M&amp;A? I mean how are you looking at it besides if it fits strategically? We look at it -- with all the financial metrics that you can imagine and ROIC -- ROIC rather we have IRR that we look at we do use return on capital and several different metrics that we weigh each one with.
But it's really on what determines for the payback what kind of dilution are we going to expect? And we're looking at the more as-reported basis the GAAP ROIC and really trying to identify how long is it going to take to accomplish orders we want to accomplish.
And just with a firmer approach to where we're spending our money and what is it costing us to capture the benefit of that.
It's all in the capital allocation strategy which we will describe in more detail in December.
And I think that you'll find some clarity that will come out there that will help to answer this question.
Our next question comes from -- a follow-up from Michael Ciarmoli from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Actually I'm going to follow up.
Glenn just on the corporate expense.
You still have $40 million out there for the year.
It was just over $6 million in the quarter.
What's going to cause that big jump up in the fourth quarter? Well first of all our pension is going to increase quarter-to-quarter about $3 million in the fourth quarter back to its normal run rate of about $8.5 million.
We had a couple adjustments onetime adjustments in Q2 and Q3.
So that will be about $8.5 million.
And we have forecast for an environmental charge in the fourth quarter and some FX transactional losses.
So that will hit you pretty clear.
I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Martin Benante for any further remarks.
Thanks Katharine.
Thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to seeing you in December at our Investor Day in New York.
Have a great day.
Bye-bye.
Bye.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Curtiss-Wright Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Jim Ryan Director of Investor Relations for Curtiss-Wright Corporation.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Danielle and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Curtiss-Wright's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our call today is being webcast and the press release as well as a copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties and we detail those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company's website.
And now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave to get things started.
Dave? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
For our agenda today I'll begin with a brief update on recent events followed by Glenn who will provide the financial update on our fourth quarter performance and a review of our 2014 guidance.
Then I'll wrap up by providing some additional color on our end markets as well as our margin expansion opportunities before we open the call for questions.
This is an exciting time for Curtiss-Wright.
As you heard at our recent December Investor Day we're making numerous changes to our business under the vision of One Curtiss-Wright which we believe will better position our company for the future.
Our focus on improving profitability expanding our margins and driving steady improvements in working capital and free cash flow will drive strong shareholder returns over time.
We also intend to execute a more balanced capital allocation strategy.
The recent 30% increase in the dividend and our plans to reenter the market to repurchase shares together with smaller bolt-on acquisitions as you recently have seen is evidence of the confidence we had with our strategy.
Lastly I wanted to thank all of you who attended our Investor Day event in person as well as those who listened in via webcast as the investment community's response has certainly been positive.
I also wanted to share some insight from inside the walls of Curtiss-Wright as the employee and customer responses to these changes have been equally well received.
This is the start of a long journey and we look forward to continually updating you on our progress along the way.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Glenn to provide a review of our quarterly performance.
Glenn? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
We concluded 2013 with a strong fourth quarter for sales operating income EPS and free cash flow.
Sales were higher across both our commercial and defense end markets and included a solid contribution from acquisitions.
Despite 90 basis points in margin dilution generated by those acquisitions we expanded operating margins 20 basis points in the fourth quarter and finished the full year of 2013 up 160 basis points over 2012.
Adjusting for the onetime items that impacted our fourth quarter 2012 results principally the benefit of lower cost estimates on the AP1000 China contract in the Flow Control segment and restructuring costs in our Surface Technologies segment operating income rose 30% leading to a 70 basis point operating margin improvement to 10.7%.
Our organic operating margin which excludes acquisitions and FX was 11.3% in the fourth quarter up 130 basis points from adjusted 2012 results.
These results reflect the benefit from our ongoing operational excellence and cost reduction initiatives across the corporation which positions us well for 2014.
Our diluted EPS was $0.97 for the fourth quarter exceeding our expectations which led to full year diluted EPS of $2.88 that exceeded the high end of our guidance range.
We were also very pleased with the strong free cash flow generated in the fourth quarter which exceeded our expectations and drove the full year free cash flow conversion rate to 120% the highest level we've seen since 2009.
Next some color on the drivers of fourth quarter segment operating income and margin performance where all 3 segments benefited from our continued improvements in operational efficiency.
Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2012 adjusted for the aforementioned nonrecurring items is shown in the fourth column of the table shaded in blue.
Starting with the Flow Control segment current year operating income increased 33% compared to adjusted 2012 while operating margin increased 130 basis points year-over-year to 11.2%.
Improved profitability in oil and gas was a key driver.
These results also included 40 basis points in acquisition margin dilution primarily related to the Phönix acquisition.
In the Controls segment operating income was up 34% and operating margin was up 60 basis points to 13.8%.
These results included 240 basis points in acquisition margin dilution the majority of which related to initial transaction and purchase accounting costs the Arens Controls and Parvus acquisitions partially offset by 50 basis points in favorable FX.
Therefore organic operating margin was 15.7% in the quarter an improvement of 250 basis points from 2012.
And finally in the Surface Technologies segment operating income increased 30% and operating margin was up 150 basis points to 15.7% compared to adjusted 2012.
These results included 150 basis points in margin dilution related to the Gartner acquisition.
Therefore organic operating margin was 17.2% in the quarter or an improvement of 300 basis points compared to adjusted 2012.
These results reflect the benefit of prior year restructuring activities.
Moving to the end markets our commercial markets grew 23% overall during the fourth quarter driven by strong contribution from our acquisitions.
While overall organic growth was minimal there were some pockets of strength.
This is particularly true in the commercial aerospace market where we experienced solid organic growth of 16%.
We continue to benefit from the ongoing strength of the OEM cycle and production rate increases across most Boeing and Airbus platforms with the bulk of the fourth quarter growth tied to the 787 platform.
We also generated higher sales across our oil and gas business led by continued solid demand in the upstream business as well as for global MRO products supporting ongoing refinery maintenance needs.
Of note in this end market is initial signs of life in the international large projects business.
Within the power generation market we experienced declines in both U.S.
and China AP1000 revenues both of which are winding down.
Our results also reflected slower growth from existing operating reactors due primarily to fewer planned outages in 2013 as expected.
However we expect to see a rebound in outages in 2014.
And finally gains in the general industrial markets were primarily driven by our industrial acquisitions serving on-road and off-road trucks and specialty vehicles along with higher shot peening sales to the global automotive industry.
Moving on fourth quarter sales in defense increased 9% overall principally driven by higher revenue on the Virginia-class submarine and Ford Class aircraft carrier programs in the naval defense market as well as the contribution from acquisitions.
We also experienced higher sales across several ISR-related platforms in the aerospace defense market such as the Global Hawk and P-8 Poseidon.
This increase was more than offset by continued lower demand in the ground defense market which continues to be entrenched in maintenance versus upgrades.
For full year 2013 our defense markets declined 2% while our commercial markets increased 33% in line with our expectations.
Overall the commercial markets represented 70% of our total sales in 2013 compared to 63% in 2012 which is reflective of our strategy to be less reliant on defense and to create a better balance across our diversified end markets.
Moving on to our financial outlook full year 2014 sales growth of 6% to 8% most of which is expected to be organic remains unchanged from our previous guidance issued on December 13.
From a market perspective our 2014 guidance remains unchanged with total defense sales expected to grow between 1% and 5% while our total commercial sales are expected to grow between 7% and 11% from 2013.
Our guidance for operating income remains unchanged as well as we expect a 14% to 19% growth in 2014 led by solid gains in our new Commercial/Industrial and Energy segments.
As a sign of our confidence and based on an expected reduction in our full year effective tax rate we have raised our guidance and tightened the range for diluted earnings per share to a range of $3.30 to $3.40 in 2014.
In addition we expect approximately 60% of our full year EPS to be in the second half of the year with the first quarter being the lowest and the fourth quarter being the highest as we have done historically.
As noted earlier we ended 2013 with a strong free cash flow performance that exceeded our expectations generating $166 million which equated to a 120% free cash flow conversion rate for the full year 2013.
For 2014 based on the benefits of our operational improvement initiatives and working capital reduction efforts we have increased our free cash flow guidance to a range of $160 million to $180 million for 2014 which raises our expected conversion rate to 100% to 110%.
And as a reminder this is in line with our goal to maintain a conversion rate of at least 100% over our planning cycle.
Furthermore I wanted to reiterate our commitment to having a more balanced capital allocation between capital expenditures return to shareholders and strategic bolt-on acquisitions in 2014.
And lastly please note that starting with our first quarter 2014 results we will present our segments in the new segment structure and the comparable historical information will be available at that time.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave to provide an update on our future outlook.
Dave? Thank you Glenn.
I'll begin by taking a few minutes to discuss the outlook across our end markets before we wrap up and move to Q&amp;A.
I'll start with an update on our commercial aerospace market which continues to be one of our most stable growth drivers across our diverse end markets.
Curtiss-Wright is well positioned for increased sales supported by the multi-year production up-cycle in this market.
As you are aware we provide a considerable array of products and services to this end market and we continue to gain ground on the various legacy and newer platforms.
Additionally we are benefiting from the continued production rate increases across numerous Boeing and Airbus platforms particularly for the Boeing 737 and 787 platforms.
We expect this momentum to continue in 2014 but we also expect moderate growth in the regional jet market.
Through our new market-facing commercial aerospace structure we intend to leverage our sales channels and product portfolio to fuel new business wins in 2014.
Overall we continue to expect the OEM cycle will remain healthy for several more years.
This supports our projections for sales growth of 6% to 10% in 2014 in the commercial aerospace market unchanged from prior guidance.
Next to our general industrial market.
Following the acquisitions of Arens Williams and PG Drives we have greatly expanded the breadth and scope of Curtiss-Wright's product portfolio and customer base within the industrial end market.
We achieved the critical mass necessary to become a market driver.
As a result we are now the industry leader for both electronic throttle controls and electronic shifters to many of the world's leading medium and heavy duty truck OEMs.
We expect solid demand for these products in 2014 based on the improved growth outlook for OEMs.
Within the services side of our general industrial market our Surface Technologies division expects to benefit from worldwide GDP growth as U.S.
and European conditions continue to improve.
We expect solid growth for our highly technical peening and coating services to domestic and international automotive customers as well as the industrial gas turbine market.
As a reminder as worldwide economic conditions improve we would expect overall stronger demand and sales volume for our surface treatment technologies continuing the progressively improving margin growth over time.
As a result of the expected gains in our industrial businesses we are projecting total general industrial market sales to grow 8% to 12% in 2014 which is unchanged from prior guidance.
Next an update in oil and gas where we expect a solid sales contribution from Cimarron continued growth in our global MRO business and higher sales in our international large projects business in 2014.
Starting with our upstream market Cimarron's production processing and separation solutions for the exploration and production industry continue to be in high demand.
Our efforts to utilize existing Houston operations to support Cimarron's rapidly growing demand along with the implementation of lean and operational excellence initiatives is expected to produce solid sales and improved profitability in 2014.
Meanwhile in our emission control devices business we are awaiting approval from the U.S.
government for certification of our 5 devices.
All units have passed testing required to meet the EPA's new standard governing the destruction of harmful vapors.
We also expect to see continued strong demand for our refinery-related MRO product offerings supporting ongoing maintenance needs.
Growth in 2014 is expected to come from both U.S.
and international markets.
Finally in the downstream large projects business we received several new orders late in the fourth quarter of 2013 for coking equipment and services supporting international refineries.
While the increase in demand is certainly a positive sign and will aid our 2014 performance we remain cautious about forecasting any major downturn -- or turnaround at this time as the majority of our downstream refining work is outside of the U.S.
and subject to long approval cycles.
Overall we're projecting total oil and gas market sales to grow 11% to 15% in 2014 unchanged from prior guidance.
Next to power generation starting with our new build business and the AP1000 program.
We continue to make progress in the production and shipment of our reactor coolant pumps or RCPs for both the China and U.S.
reactors.
In China we are currently working through the remanufacture of the first 8 RCPs and expect shipments to take place between the second and fourth quarter of 2014.
In the U.S.
we expect shipments of the first 4 RCPs to take place in the second half of this year.
In addition this past November we received sign-off by our Chinese customer for a 2-year extension of the technology transfer agreement from our initial 2007 contract.
Regarding our next AP1000 order we continue to negotiate and finalize the contract language with the Chinese for a follow-on RCP order.
We expect this to be a significant driver of future growth in our new build business for years to come.
Shifting to our aftermarket nuclear business we continue to see solid growth despite headwinds from Fukushima impacts slow economic growth rising natural gas prices and several plant closures.
Leading enablers to our aftermarket success stories include organic technology advancements which drove record new orders in 2013 in support of plant upgrades refurbishment projects and obsolescence solutions.
Our projects continued to reinforce Curtiss-Wright technology and QA infrastructures addressing today's challenging plant obsolescence issues on a global scale.
As a result we fully expect to see continued demand for our products and services throughout this year.
Curtiss-Wright also continues its success in capturing new awards resulting from NRC orders 1 2 and 3 as it pertains to Fukushima response initiatives.
We continue to experience solid demand for Curtiss-Wright equipment in support of existing operating reactors and we also expect an increase in planned outages to aid our growth this year.
Overall we are projecting total power generation market sales to grow 2% to 6% in 2014 unchanged from prior guidance.
Next to the defense market.
Following the passage of the 2014 omnibus spending bill we have some clarity to the defense budget for the first time in several years.
It also suggests a more promising year for the defense industry particularly for the areas where Curtiss-Wright has leading positions such as in naval defense defense electronics and UAVs.
In naval defense Virginia-class submarine production remains solid at a pace of 2 ships per year.
We recently definitized a new contract for block IV generators supporting the Virginia-class submarine which should benefit our revenue for the next several years.
Elsewhere based on timing of production on the CVN-79 aircraft carrier we expect our nuclear propulsion sales to be flat this year.
The recent decision to maintain the full carrier fleet and refuel the CVN-73 carrier should produce an opportunity for Curtiss-Wright to secure a refueling and complex overhaul or RCOH contract.
This could provide about $30 million in additional future revenue beyond 2014.
Next to the aerospace and ground defense markets we are expecting modest improvements in our aerospace defense markets led by higher embedded computing sales.
Our key platforms continue to be funded with minimal budget impact.
Those increases are expected to more than offset weaker domestic ground defense sales as this market continues to be impacted by lower incoming order rates resulting in decreased sales across various platforms.
While the domestic market remains weak we have shifted our focus to higher-growth opportunities such as upgrade programs serving the international ground market.
In addition Curtiss-Wright's defense business is much leaner now than in the past.
This is the result of our proactive operational restructuring and cost reduction initiatives during the past 2 years which will continue to provide improved profitability.
In summary based on the recent decisions out of Washington we now have improved visibility for the next 2 years which keeps us confident in our guidance for total defense market sales to grow 1% to -- 1% to 5% in 2014 unchanged from prior guidance.
So to recap we're pleased with our outlook for solid sales growth of 6% to 8% in 2014 most of which will be organic.
We expect the growth in sales and our continued focus on improving operating margin to lead to strong double-digit increases in operating income and earnings per share.
This solid outlook compared with our ongoing operational improvement initiatives as laid out in December provide us confidence to raise our key -- free cash flow projections for 2014.
As for the status of those operating margin initiatives we have solid plans in place across the organization.
By far this is the #1 initiative across all of Curtiss-Wright and a major undertaking which we expect will lead to significantly positive results.
Our operating teams are disciplined focused and aligned with the goal of driving toward top-quartile operating margin performance.
To ensure that we reach our goals our compensation programs have been aligned accordingly.
Our leadership team is excited and energized and the buy-in has been outstanding in support of the One Curtiss-Wright vision.
We remain focused on achieving our aggressive operational goals through the measures outlined at Investor Day.
As a reminder we discussed several strategic margin drivers that will take us on the path to a 14% operating margin.
This includes our competitiveness programs where we are intently focused on generating improvements in operational excellence and lean as well as achieving significant supply chain savings.
Together these are our 2 largest opportunities regarding our supply chain we expect to spend about $1.3 billion this year.
This clearly needs to be condensed.
We have the knowledge base in place and with the added focus and drive of our operational leaders we will achieve significant savings in this area.
We have ramped up the focus across all of our operating units and as noted in December we have assembled a team of our best practitioners to work through these challenges including the creation of both supply chain and lean councils.
Through One Curtiss-Wright we will generate significant measurable savings in these areas and you will see the direct benefit through solid operating margin expansion starting this year.
We also expect to drive synergies from our efforts in shared services.
We have Shared Service Centers up and running in Costa Rica and Charlotte with initiatives across our IT finance and HR organizations.
We are making solid progress in all 3 areas and you will see the contribution that these savings benefit our results in 2014 and beyond.
We are also working on various portfolio rationalization opportunities to divest those operations considered non-core or not expected to meet our financial objectives over the planning period.
This is a disciplined process and we expect this addition by subtraction will play a significant role as early as the second quarter in helping us achieve our operating margin expansion objectives.
Another initiative is our segment focus in getting some of our underperforming facilities to reach their full potential.
This is one of the largest components of our margin expansion plan as even our best performers have room to improve.
The results from these actions will be demonstrable.
We will also discuss strategic growth initiatives across each of our segments.
This includes the right investments in the right markets to drive our future growth.
They are specific and measurable for each of our operational leaders.
We expect these initiatives to help drive steady organic sales growth of 5% to 6% which in turn will help contribute to our operating margin expansion.
While we had identified and established these plans in late 2013 we are well on our way to executing these initiatives.
I review the progress of each and every one of these items with the entire executive management team on a monthly basis.
Again the goals are aggressive and the operational leaders will be compensated based on their performance.
This is an achievable plan and we intend to make it happen.
As we go through 2014 I will provide continued updates on our progress at least on a quarterly basis during future earnings conference calls.
The end results as you will begin to see is evidence of our steady operating margin improvement as we cross into the upper quartile versus our peers and continue to drive to 14%.
Moving on as you have likely noted we recently completed 2 smaller bolt-on acquisitions.
The first was CCRS which closed in January.
CCRS specializes in providing high technology protective coatings and component repairs for turbine engines.
We expect to bundle CCRS' technologies with our own high-technology services offering.
This will allow us to leverage sales opportunities in Europe and capitalize on opportunities for technology insertion into our worldwide service network.
The second was NPSI which we acquired a few days ago.
This acquisition helps to expand our nuclear manufacturing and test operations by providing an enhanced sales channel to Canadian-designed nuclear power plants further enhancing our industry-leading worldwide distribution network.
Overall these are excellent examples of the type of acquisitions that we are currently seeking high-technology profitable bolt-on acquisitions that provide significant synergy opportunities in our targeted areas of growth.
Furthermore once we move past the initial purchase accounting costs these acquisitions will support our objective of operating margin expansion.
In addition the significant increase in the dividend as noted earlier reflects our confidence in the company's ability to continue to deliver strong revenue and profitability growth as we execute our strategic plan.
Furthermore we are reentering the market with a restart to our share repurchase program.
As previously communicated we will achieve a balanced capital allocation strategy between distributions to shareholders capital expenditures and strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
Overall we expect our relentless focus upon margin expansion and free cash flow generation to produce long-term shareholder value.
At this time I'd like to open up today's conference call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Nice cash flow and that's where I'm going to start if that's okay Glenn.
In the quarter itself and also in the revisions of the outlook I know you're talking about the working capital improvement initiatives.
But can you get a little bit more specific in terms of accounts? I mean it looks like payables and less on receivables and inventory.
I'm wondering if there's any tax implications.
Anything a little bit more specific because obviously material beat on both the quarter and the outlook.
Yes I mean there obviously were some tax adjustments at the end of the year as well but it was across the board.
It was really -- I could probably say mostly receivables followed by payables and inventory last.
We also had some deferred revenue activity in the quarter as well.
Research Division</strong> Anything -- nothing -- okay so it sounds pretty repeatable or kind of not one-off by nature given the '14 outlook lap as well.
Exactly.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of pension contributions for '14 has that moved? The pension contribution for '14 to the -- well to the defined-benefit plan or in conjunction -- we're calling it postretirement contribution now because we've put in the new 401(k) plan pension plan.
So expect that between the 2 of those to be about $38 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then maybe at a higher level strategically the oil and gas market it sounds like the tone has improved there.
But realistically I think David it's good that you're not getting out in front of it because the large oil and gas projects have been tough to predict.
But I'm just curious within the outlook of growth for '14 that 11% to 15% which I imagine the bulk is organic is there more upside opportunity or is there more risk on the large oil and gas project piece of that? I look at the upside really coming from the upstream side of the business and that's where our focus is.
We do have the activity ongoing on the large capital business on the downstream side and we have introduced several new products to that marketplace.
And that while we -- while both Glenn and I said that we're very -- we didn't say very but we're very cautiously optimistic about the potential uptick in that large cap business the -- we've got the activities internationally which we have picked up some orders from.
But I would say if I'm putting all my hopes on oil and gas it is and continues to be the upstream market where our focus remains.
And if some things pick up for us on the downstream side hey that's just great.
Myles real quick just a correction; I gave you the expense number.
The contribution for 2014 is closer to $50 million a little bit higher than $50 million actually.
I gave you the expense number sorry.
Research Division</strong> So that contribution is even a little -- I had a $40 million contribution so it's even a little bit higher than I was thinking.
A little bit higher yes mainly due to the 401(k).
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last one for me.
So book-to-bill it's obviously good bookings on a year-on-year basis but book-to-bill is still trending right around 1x.
So not seeing the acceleration of the book-to-bill above 1x.
Do we think that happens here earlier in the first half of 2014? I mean thinking historically it does.
I mean we generally get orders in the beginning of the year that get rolled out in the back half of the year.
So off the top of my head we typically trend that way and I would expect it to be the same.
I don't see any major difference.
And our next question comes from Tyler Hojo from Sidoti.
LLC</strong> So I was actually just curious about some of your comments surrounding nuclear power and I guess the demand on the existing side.
I get that planned outages are expected to increase in 2014 but do you have a sense of timing? Is it going to be more first half or back half weighted? And how does that mesh with the overall I guess it's 2% to 6% outlook overall for nuclear power? On our aftermarket on the nuclear side it has been really the bright spot for us for a considerable time.
'13 as you know we were down low because the outages did not happen they were pushed out to '14.
So we're looking at '14 as being a very robust outage year for us and we're looking forward some things really cracking there.
So I'm thinking that's going to be spread through the year.
We did pick up some orders in both the Fukushima response side and then other MRO activity toward last year that really propped up the business in terms of a '14 outlook on the order of about $60 million worth of obsolescence and plant upgrades.
So this is sort of what we had expected.
So that's going to be spread throughout.
So with the outages on the continuing ops I'm feeling pretty good about it.
And as you know we do pretty good there in terms of margins.
And so with our acquisition of this latest company that just adds to our toolbox to address a larger more international marketplace; heretofore we have not been able to get into Canada as we wanted to and we're looking elsewhere in the world to expand that same kind of footprint.
LLC</strong> Okay and just on the new nuclear reactor side how important is kind of this next China order in terms of meeting the guidance range? Well I'll tell you we built some amount of money into this year's forecast.
It's about $14 million in sales and $3 million in OI.
That's what we have in our guidance right now for the new contract.
They are heavily into negotiations as we speak.
Our executive team is heading over there now or soon so -- but -- and that's what we have built in them.
We are playing the waiting game but it's not just simply wait.
We have been negotiating with them and as you know they had celebrated their Chinese New Year which held things up for a few weeks and so we have reengaged now post-Chinese New Year holiday and our executive team is negotiating and then we have a further second crew going down there in the next few days.
So we anticipate this thing will come to fruition here in near term so the outlook does not look to be perturbated because of the time that we're at we were let's say conservative where we placed our bookings relative to '14.
LLC</strong> Okay that's great color.
And I guess just lastly for me and this is kind of a follow-on from the Analyst Day but Dave as you kind of move through the strategic review process I'm just kind of curious if you're seeing any opportunities present themselves for portfolio shaping things that maybe aren't quite as core as you'd like kind of the portfolio to be.
Yes for sure.
And we -- that happens with -- certainly with every acquisition we acquire we look at them when we do acquire them.
And now as you know as we've stated publicly and in December that we're taking a much broader look at that but very focused.
And there are some as I indicated in my opening remarks that we are looking at some right now very specifically.
I expect to see some things coming up that I'll be able to talk about in the next quarter.
And so that continual reshaping will remain a heavy focus of mine.
And as I also indicated in the notes that those companies that can't get to where we have to get to and that's the 14% or better then -- op margin then we'll take a long hard look at those as well.
So more to come.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Kevin Ciabattoni from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on Myles' question on the oil and gas market.
I mean looking at the kind of downstream side of that business it seems like you guys are warming up to that a little bit.
What does it take in terms of the large cap projects to get you more confident? What would it take for you to kind of lift your outlook on that part of the business I guess going forward through the rest of the year? It would be let's say good progress on those jobs that we have received bookings on in Q4.
We've booked basically around $21 million $22 million worth of international projects that I would refer to specifically as downstream.
And we've got significant entries -- very very high interest in the new products that we have put within our center feed devices out of DeltaValve.
And I think what would get me excited would be is if that really took off and we were to land some contracts domestically and internationally with our new center feed devices which by the way test out extremely well then I would start to feel much better about that.
But as you know '12 was rough and '13 wasn't a cakewalk.
And so we think we have sized this and planned this accordingly.
And I'm just going to remain conservative until I really see the whites of the eyes of some serious contracts coming in.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I guess are there any specific examples that you can point to in 4Q in terms of kind of the 10-point strategy you laid out where you made significant progress? I mean I guess you did a good job of kind of explaining that it's going as planned and looking forward.
I guess just kind of looking back at the quarter and maybe some more specific color on what you guys were able to implement? Yes I can tell you that well a lot of headway has been made on and already been asked about on the portfolio rationalization.
Although I can't speak to that at this point I will be able to in fairly near term.
And so I feel that we've made significant headway in that regard and I'm very optimistic there.
And it's time and we're doing the right things.
A couple of other areas in supply chain and lean as identified we do have a supply chain/lean chief who's got it on -- tattooed on his forehead that this is what he's got to go get.
We spend as indicated on the call $1.3 billion a year on things we acquire -- that we spend money on and if we can't find some money in that then there's something wrong with us.
We know we can find it and we're making good headway in that.
We've got the plans laid out.
It's all about laying out your early in the year planning for the executive team and having them go through it and make it happen.
Shared services we've got a real good head start on all 3 sides of that with finance HR and IT.
I feel very good with what's happening in Costa Rica and what's happened in Charlotte.
And so I just see further benefit from those.
And then on the segment focus we've taken each and every one of those business units and have identified some we have that are much higher op margin than others.
And no matter how high they are they still have a target that's aggressive.
So we've identified those and those flow down in the objectives and then they flow through the compensation side.
So it's looking like a very robust plan with an aggressive target and we like to run that way.
And this team I'm absolutely confident of will achieve it.
One other thing Kevin that's going to benefit our margins just Dave's new organization just the new structure that we're in eliminated a whole layer of infrastructure that we started to implement in the fourth quarter last year which we'll see some benefit this year as well.
I don't know if that falls under shared services or where that is but it's in his list.
And so that's just one other item to add.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then just one last one for me kind of turning to defense and you talked about some opportunity there you talked about the CVN refueling.
Just wondering as we look forward here to the release of the '15 budget maybe if there's any kind of opportunities that you guys see in the budget release that you're looking at that could provide additional upside? Yes we're seeing that -- feel very good about the Navy side the shipbuilding and so forth.
I don't see any uptick from that.
It looks like it's going to be steady Eddie.
And with our other businesses in embedded computing and the electronics that we provide I see those as being extremely broad-based which let's say they protect us from the downside.
And other than that I'm really projecting this thing is going to be relatively flat.
I don't know of any big pops that could come out of this thing at this point but I don't on the other hand see big negatives.
This is more of a positive for us over the last couple of years as you know not being able to plan.
And now our customers our end customers and our interim -- our OEM customers will be able to plan.
And I think the RCOH -- the CVN-73 is in fiscal '16 right now.
And I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back to Dave Adams for any closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Have a great day.
Thanks.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Curtiss-Wright First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct the question-and-answer and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today’s conference Jim Ryan Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Ashley and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Curtiss-Wright’s first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our call today is being webcast and the press release as well as a copy of today’s financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today’s discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management’s current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties and we detail those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company’s website.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Dave to get things started.
Dave? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
For our agenda today I will provide a brief update on recent events followed by Glenn who will review our first quarter financial update and discuss the increases to our 2014 guidance.
I will return to wrap up by providing some additional color on our margin expansion progress and opportunities and then open the call for questions.
As you have seen by our press release last evening we began the year with a strong first quarter performance.
Our results directly reflect the emerging benefits of the transformational journey we embarked upon in December of last year.
One of the initial tasks completed under the One Curtiss-Wright vision was the organizational realignment of our prior segment structure into three new market-facing segments.
Thus far our actions to flatten the organization have resulted in lower segment cost which as a result has led to improved profitability across the enterprise.
The organizational realignment as well as our operational and productivity improvement initiatives are beginning to manifest themselves in operating margin expansion as expected.
As we have discussed our new strategy is united across the company with a razor-sharp focus on improving profitability expanding our margins and driving steady improvements in working capital and free cash flow.
Furthermore I will remind you that these metrics are aligned with the compensation plans for our entire management team.
Based on the guidance we issued in December and as we have discussed previously our improvements are aimed at driving Curtiss-Wright to upper quartile metric performance versus our peer group that should lead to strong shareholder returns in the future.
Combined with the positive impact of our operational improvements the acquisitions we made in late 2012 and early 2013 have integrated nicely and are accretive to our operating income and margin.
Looking ahead I am bullish on further integration benefits and continued improvement in core operational efficiencies that will drive Curtiss-Wright’s performance this year.
Now I would like to turn the call over to Glenn to provide a review of our quarterly performance.
Glenn? Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
As you can see by our results we are off to a great start in 2014.
First quarter sales were up in both our commercial and defense end-markets and included solid contributions from our acquisitions.
Operating income rose 55% generating a 200 basis point improvement in operating margin to 9.2%.
On an organic basis which excludes acquisitions and FX operating income increased 48% that produced organic operating margin of 9.3% in the first quarter up to 190 basis points from the prior year.
And as Dave highlighted these results reflects the benefits from our operational excellence and margin expansion initiatives across the enterprise which keeps us on track for strong performance in 2014.
Our operating performance in the first quarter produced diluted earnings per share of $0.72 which exceeded our expectations.
In addition we had solid new orders during the first quarter driving our book-to-bill to 1.26.
Next some color on the drivers of first quarter operating income and margin performance.
And note that we are presenting our segments in the new structure that became effective on January 1 of this year.
Starting with Commercial/Industrial operating income rose 60% and operating margin increased 300 basis points to 12.4% including 100 basis points in acquisition margin dilution primarily from the Phönix and Arens Controls acquisitions.
This segment’s strong organic operating income growth and 13.7% operating margins were driven by higher sales volumes the benefits of our margin expansion initiatives and increased profitability and operational improvements from our 2012 acquisitions which is principally related to Exlar and Williams Controls which had moved beyond their initial purchase accounting related transaction costs.
In the Defense segment operating income was up 25% and operating margin was up 250 basis points to 10.5%.
As a reminder our overall defense business is much leaner now than in the past.
If you recall we proactively repositioned several businesses through operational restructuring and cost reduction activities over the past few years in response to potential sequestration related budget cuts which contributed to the solid operating margin expansion in the quarter.
We also benefited from higher margins realized on the licensing of select non-core products which was partially offset by higher cost estimates on the AP1000 program.
Next in the Energy segment operating income increased 16% and operating margin was up 50 basis points to 7.2% principally related to our efforts to improve sales and profitability in the oil and gas business.
We continue to benefit from improved utilization of existing Houston operations resulting from the in-sourcing of Cimarron’s manufacturing and support growing demand in the upstream market along with the implementation of lean and operational excellence initiatives across our operations.
These improvements were partially offset by lower sales volumes in the power generation market.
Overall our combined segment performance was strong as operating income increased 38% and operating margin increased 220 basis points to 10.4%.
And finally we experienced lower corporate and other costs in the first quarter as a result of lower pension and post retirement costs.
Moving to our end markets our commercial markets grew 11% overall during the first quarter aided by some of our recent acquisitions as well as 4% organic growth.
In the commercial aerospace market we experienced solid mid-teens organic growth.
We continue to benefit from the ongoing strength of the OEM cycle and production rate increases across the industry with the bulk of the first quarter growth tied to the Boeing 787 platform.
Curtiss-Wright remains well positioned for continued growth supported by the multi-year production up-cycle in this market and we expect this momentum to continue for several more years.
Elsewhere we generated higher sales across our oil and gas businesses the bulk of which was organic led primarily by solid demand in the upstream business.
We also experienced higher global sales of MRO products supporting existing refinery maintenance fees particularly for industrial valve products produced by our Phönix acquisition as well higher international coker equipment sales.
We expect solid growth in the oil and gas markets to continue throughout 2014.
Within the power generation market we experienced lower revenues on both the U.S.
and China AP1000 contracts which are winding down.
Our results also reflected slower growth from existing domestic operating reactors due primarily to the timing of planned outages.
And although weather related impacts shifted some scheduled projects out of the first quarter we expect to recruit this work during the remainder of this year.
Looking ahead we expect moderate growth in the nuclear aftermarket business in 2014 as the focus on technology advancements has led to new orders in support of plant upgrades refurbishment projects and obsolescence solutions.
And finally gains in the general industrial market were primarily driven by our Arens Controls acquisition serving on-road and off-road trucks and specialty vehicles partially offset by lower commercial HVAC sales.
Looking ahead we continue to expect solid demand for our industrial vehicle products in 2014 based on the improved growth outlook for OEMs and increasing global demand to reduce emissions.
We also expect solid global growth for our highly technical surface treatment services based on improving U.S.
economic growth and Europe’s recovery from recession.
In the defense market sales increased 3% primarily due to acquisitions.
Increased sales in naval defense were driven by higher revenue on the Virginia class submarine and DDG-51 destroyer programs which continue to receive solid funding and reflect the government support for a strong U.S.
Navy shipbuilding budget.
Higher sales in the aerospace defense market were primarily driven by the Parvus acquisition as well as higher sales on helicopter programs and various other ISR-related platforms.
This increase was partially offset by continued lower demand in the ground defense market which continues to be entrenched in maintenance versus upgrades.
For the remainder of 2014 we expect continued growth on our key defense platforms to continue with minimal budget impact as the risk of sequestration has been mitigated for 2014 and 2015.
As a reminder Curtiss-Wright maintains leading positions in navel defense defense electronics and UAVs which are expected to receive increased funding in the coming years.
A perfect example is the recent multi-year contract awarded to General Dynamics for the construction of 10 Virginia-class submarines which we hope will continue to provide Curtiss-Wright with steady naval defense revenues in the years to come.
Moving on to our financial outlook full year 2014 sales growth of 6% to 8% remains unchanged from our previous guidance.
And from a market perspective our 2014 guidance also remains unchanged with total defense sales expected to grow between 1% and 5% and total commercial sales expected to grow between 7% and 11% from 2013.
You can find the complete payable of our guidance by end-market in the appendix as well as in the earnings release.
Our increased guidance for operating income reflects lower expected pension and post-retirement costs now that we have completed one quarter and have a better sense of voluntary employee participation in our new 401(k) plan.
As a result our growth in operating income has increased to a range of 17% to 22% in 2014 while our operating margin has expanded 20 basis points to a new range of 10.3% to 10.5%.
We also increased our share count to 49.1 million shares to account for greater than anticipated stock option dilution in the first quarter based on the solid performance of our share price note that any further dilution of 2014 share count is expected to be offset by our ongoing share repurchase program.
As a result we have increased our 2014 guidance for diluted earnings per share to a range of $3.35 to $3.45.
In addition we expect approximately 55% of our full year diluted EPS to be in the second half of the year with the fourth quarter being highest as we have done historically.
And next to our cash flow please note that with the exception of last year our current quarter free cash flow results are consistent with our historical first quarter performance which is typically much lower than the rest of the year.
This pattern is similar to our EPS performance as the first quarter free cash flow includes our lowest quarterly net earnings coupled with cash payments tied to annual compensations.
Overall despite the low first quarter we increased our full year free cash flow guidance to a new range of $170 million to $190 million based on expectations for additional working capital improvements in the latter half of the year.
This also raises our expected conversion rate to a range of 103% to 112% in line with our goal to maintain a conversion rate of at least 100% over the planning cycle.
Finally I wanted to point out that our comparable historical information in the new segment structure both for the first quarter and for the full year 2013 is available within the tables of the press release and remaining quarters will be included in an 8-K filing that will be made later on today.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to Dave to provide an update on our future outlook.
Dave? Thanks Glenn.
As you have heard so far to-date we are making solid progress with our margin expansion initiatives which continue to position Curtiss-Wright for strong profitable growth.
One of the key goals of our new strategy is to achieve upper quartile operating margin performance compared to our peer group and then surpass that with our drive towards 14%.
I’d like to take a few minutes to share some of our achievements in this regard and then I will open up the call to Q&amp;A.
We are on track thus far with most initiatives performing in line with plan.
Recall that our original 2014 guidance calls for approximately 90 basis points in margin expansions over 2013.
We expect the success of these initiatives will contribute to the bulk of the increase in margin balanced by higher sales volumes.
As a reminder the progress of each and every one of these items is reviewed with the entire executive management team on a monthly basis.
Our operating teams are disciplined focused and aligned with the goal of driving towards top quartile operating margin performance.
I will begin with our consolidation programs.
We have made great progress thus far including the elimination of the former flow control and controls headquarters allowing us to recognize immediate returns.
We have launched 12 additional consolidation projects with more under consideration.
Thus far we are ahead of plan with this initiative.
Next to our competitiveness programs where we are focused on generating significant savings from lean and supply chains initiatives.
Starting with supply chain our forecast is for approximately $1.5 billion in available spending this year and we are aggressively working to reduce that figure.
As I have discussed before we previously operated under the old three segment structure with each segment pursuing different agendas beside the effect of minimizing the benefit of critical mass and leverage.
We have now made this an enterprise level focus under the one Curtiss-Wright strategy.
As a result the company wide supply chain management capital was created and leadership put into place where we can now exploit the benefits of critical mass consistency and accountability.
To-date we have launched 10 high impact initiatives with several others in the planning stages.
Thus far we are on plan with more to come during the remainder of 2014.
Similarly we have united our top lean practitioners in the field to create a lean council responsible for the oversight of our operational excellence initiatives.
One of the recent projects launched by the team was the development of an assessment tool the baseline lean maturity.
The tool is being deployed consistently across all Curtiss-Wright business units with the result of benchmarking our lean journey at every site.
This benchmarking will from the basis of additional improvement plans across the enterprise.
We are also working on various portfolio rationalization opportunities to divest some non-core operations.
We have several operations targeted for divestiture which should help us to achieve our operating margin expansion objectives.
As noted this process of addition by subtraction will play a significant role in 2014 and beyond.
Next to shared services where the transition is well underway in our journey to world class operational status.
These include initiatives across our IT finance and HR organizations with each functional group operating at different stages in the process.
Finance and IT are the furthest along and we expect our HR initiative to begin to pickup steam rather we have established new leadership in our HR organization.
One of the largest components of our margin expansion plan is our segment focus.
For this initiative we are concentrating on our underperforming facilities with the purpose of attaining their full potential.
We have more than 10 specific business unit important plans in place with most showing signs of strong improvement and others trailing slightly behind.
Our returns from this initiative are expected to be substantial as reflected in our long-term guidance and we look forward to continued progress over the next several quarters.
We also have numerous strategic growth initiatives across each of our segments.
In fact we are monitoring more than 100 potential growth initiatives throughout the organization.
These initiatives are specific and measurable and support our long-term organic sales growth target of 5% to 6%.
Over time this will contribute to our margin expansion goals.
Overall we have a high degree of confidence in achieving strong operating margin expansion from these initiatives in 2014 and beyond some of which you saw in our first quarter results.
Again most of the contribution from these initiatives was built in our full year guidance for 2014.
Albeit early in the process we are pleased to have seen the results to-date that we have experienced and I look forward to our mid-year review at which time we will have solid six months data to analyze.
If these initiatives begin to exceed their current track we will update our guidance accordingly during the future earnings call.
We have also been very focused on improving working capital across our operations.
Each business unit has specific targeted improvements and primary working capital metrics.
These initiatives will soon begin to positively influence our cash flow and we will update you later this year on our progress.
Before I wrap up I wanted to provide a brief update on the AP1000 program.
We continue to make progress in the production of our reactor coolant pumps for RCPs supporting the China AP1000 reactor program.
In addition we have begun to secure smaller contracts for equipment supporting both China and U.S.
new build AP1000 reactors as well as other global designs which are expected to nicely contribute to our overall content over time.
Regarding our next 81 000 order we are in continued discussions with the Chinese regarding contractual language and we are looking forward to announcing an order once it reaches conclusion.
Again we expect this to be a significant driver of future growth in our new build business for years to come.
To recap we are off to a great start and expect a strong year in terms of operating income margin EPS and free cash flow.
We expect our commercial and defense end markets to continue to perform well this year.
As you can see the benefits of our organizational realignment are immediately paying dividends.
We are making great strides in our operating margin improvement initiatives which have and will continue to positively impact our results.
Our continued focus on improving operating margin should drive strong double-digit increases in operating income and earnings per share providing a high-level of confidence in our free cash flow outlook.
I also wanted to reiterate our commitment to having more balanced capital allocation between capital expenditures returns to shareholders and strategic bolt-on acquisitions in 2014.
During the quarter we increased the dividend by 30% and reinitiated our share repurchase program while only making a handful of smaller acquisitions all a function of our strategic plan.
Overall I am confident that our efforts to improve margin expansion and free cash flow generation will produce long-term shareholder value.
At this time I would like to open up today’s conference call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Michael Ciarmoli of KeyBanc Capital.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning guys.
Real nice quarter.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning Mike.
Thank you.
Dave maybe just to stay on the AP1000 can you give us an update of how many pumps you guys have in backlog right now maybe what the current run-rate is through your facilities? And I know you guys keep talking about the China order but it seems like there is some progress out there either with Westinghouse securing some opportunities in Britain and even Poland.
I mean is there anything else percolating out there besides just the China order? Yes.
Mike we have been obviously with – we are very close to Westinghouse and we have shipped six units to China.
We have received four back that we are reworking those internally.
We have some ongoing testing internally that as a result of long-term testing and that’s going very positively for us.
As far as the other orders we did see and you probably saw the Reuters news release out there that Westinghouse is looking at I think it had indicated something like $24 billion worth of business.
And we have been involved in pricing exercises with various people.
And those continue as we are continuing with to be a major element of the AP1000 program.
And over time this has been just to really get out of the gate with the Chinese it’s been a long contractual negotiation period.
And we see light at the end of the tunnel.
So we are very hopeful in that regard.
And it’s something new for us as having developed the world’s largest canned RCP.
This is a pretty exciting time for us.
So things are looking good for us out there but I can’t really speak to the specifics of the negotiations and/or the bids that we have outstanding.
Okay.
And how many pumps do you guys have left in your backlog? For China or all in? In China and the U.S.
yes.
16 for China and 24 domestically I’d say 40 in total because they are all technically still in backlog because we haven’t – we are bringing them back and we haven’t – we are working on as Dave said remanufacturing the first eight pumps for China.
So – and the bulk of those are in some form or process in our Pittsburgh plant in backlog.
So I would say 40 is what we have right now.
Okay perfect.
And then just you guys articulated the kind of 10-point plan there with each – where things stand how do we think about margins in the energy segment going forward? I mean that’s the one segment that notably lags the other two.
I mean as you guys kind of progress towards this target should we see a catch up as maybe utilization improves and/or even you mentioned the coker kind of demand maybe picking up.
How do we think about energy margins going forward? Well Mike we had a pretty good quarter for them it stood right out of the gate at 7.3% which is basically the annual end of our guidance right now.
So we believe there is definitely opportunity to improve in that segment.
However as with any forecast we still have risks outstanding in our forecast.
And certainly a bulk of them are in the energy segment.
So it’s a little bit too early in the year but I think you will see continued improvement in all of our segments in each quarter as we go forward.
Okay fair enough.
We are just not changing our guidance for energy at this point.
Got it.
And then anything just to follow-up on that you said that the coker demand I mean you guys haven’t really talked seemingly positively or optimistically about that I mean are you getting a little bit more comfortable that maybe some of the CapEx in the refining environment starting to pickup maybe in different markets.
We are – I talked last time Mike about our cautious optimism didn’t really want to go on a limb on it.
I still don’t but we are cautiously optimistic.
We are seeing activities even in the downstream obviously upstream is looking really good.
But the downstream has picked up with some interest and quotations from us.
I also indicated last call that we had released several new products to the marketplace and a couple of those new products have – we had really taken some foothold in terms of the interest.
And so we got some very specific inquiries relative to that.
So like I had said before I am not going to put all my – I am not going to count those chicken before the egg hatch but I will say that it is looking positive and downstream can only be great for us if it picks up.
It sounds good.
Well I will jump back in the queue here guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steve Levenson of Stifel.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning.
Just in relation to your comment on your focus on underperforming operations are they across the three segments or are they more concentrated in one segment and if so which one and do you see.
Well let’s see where they are first and I will ask next question? Really thanks for that question.
I won’t single out anybody because everybody is listening.
But I will say that we all have the monitor of extra forehead in terms of 14% of margin and that’s by year 2018 we are all working down that path.
Some as I indicated are trailing whereas others are doing much better.
We have some that are in excess of 14% which is – which you are going to find in a business with the mix that we have and we are – and we got some that are much lower performers but it might be a reason because of the market.
It may be not core to us it might for various reasons.
And we are analyzing those.
We certainly have government contracts that might preclude some of that.
So to say that someone might not be at that level.
Now or in the near-term it might not mean that there are necessarily a bad one because they maybe precluded from getting there anyway.
But we have got – we got several that are across the board across the three segments that we are looking at and no stone unturned is the approach that we are taking.
And I will say that management is extremely incentivized to – and anxious to work with these units and we are having great success with them.
Okay thanks.
Is it possible you will do some consolidation to put underperforming ones with managers who are doing better? We do that as the course of – a normal course of business and that will happen.
You will have a management style in one case that might work better than another and/or a market now that we are all one company one Curtiss-Wright that was part of the plan that where we have areas that were stove piped off before in terms of market facing and going after the same market but under two different management structures.
Well now we have them joined at the hip and that has already paid dividends for us from the customer side from the manufacturing side and then from the op margins side.
So absolutely it has given us opportunities that we were not there prior to.
Got it.
Thanks.
One other items you have in commentary on the big Virginia class submarine contract awarded the other day and how that might help you going forward? We think that – we were saying before we were bullish over the last several quarters.
We have continued to say that we are bullish on the outlook of what sequestration might have helped.
And we always said that we are bullish because we were heavy in naval and naval defense has been great for us it continues to be great.
This is just another testimony to that.
We anticipate this is going to be excellent for us.
And going forward as I said we are going to be building two Virginia classes a year.
And that’s a lot of money to us.
So we are excited over.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Kristine Liwag of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Kristine.
Good morning Kristine.
It sounds like from your prepared remarks that you have made a lot of progress in your initiatives and you had identified margin growth from headquarter footprint reduction and you talked about your progress with the higher shared services with IT finance and HR.
So I just wanted to get an idea of where you are kind of big picture in doing all the things that you have already planned.
So kind of in baseball terms in which inning are you now? And when do you think you will finish your identified plans for these items? Well considering that we have targeted 2018 we are in the first of a five-year plan.
And as you know some low-hanging fruit will fall much more quickly which it has and will continue.
It did indicates that there are some in my prepared remarks that there are some that will pay more dividends later on as we look at the entirety and in the segment focus.
And it’s across the board Kristine.
I would say I am really pleased generally with the low hanging fruit and how it has manifested itself.
Supply chain is an area that takes a little longer because that’s a ship and it’s a $1.5 billion ship that takes a little bit of time to turn.
And we are making headway in various aspects in that regard.
And there is not a week that doesn’t go by that I don’t want to hear about some things that we are actively engaged on.
And I won’t go through the details but there are small things that add up to big numbers over a period of time.
So that gives you an idea on supply chain that’s a longer term one probably really coming into full view next year I would think.
Then you have the shared services I indicated that two were well along their way and one is moving on very nicely.
We have already seen pickup in IT and finance and we will see some more in HR as we move along but the segment focus that’s going to be a little bit longer.
There are literally hundreds of initiatives across the business units and we track them by segment by business unit and managers have them to review them every month.
And as a matter of fact next week we have the rather large meeting.
It’s the quarterly meeting that basically takes all of that and goes into much more detail.
So it’s all hands on deck and it’s a journey but it’s not a three-inning it’s a five-year journey.
So it’s like it’s going to be – if you equate that’s the nine innings you can figure that out.
Hey Kristine.
Also keep in mind that some of these initiatives are ongoing they are not brand new.
So it’s an ongoing program.
So built into we are estimating 110 basis point improvement in our margin this year so some of the ongoing ones are already in our guidance.
And as Dave pointed out as we start to see that we are exceeding that we’ll adjust it.
And some of the newer like as Dave talked about the longer term initiatives start to take hold we will update our guidance accordingly as we go forward.
Alright great.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Michael Ciarmoli of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thanks.
Maybe Dave or Glenn you mentioned weather in the quarter creating maybe some disruptions or delays can you sort of quantify that? And I mean you guys put up a great quarter anyway I guess with those disruptions so does that give you – I mean I obviously appreciate the conservatism but it seems like you are going to obviously pickup that lost work in the remaining quarters here.
So if maybe you could just quantify what kind of impact weather has? I’ll give you a little bit of high level macro quantification.
And then Glenn can speak to any specifics that he might want to but if you are looking at the HVAC side and industrial as well as some of the aftermarket work the MRO maintenance that we do and some of the oil and gas sector.
Those have both been affected.
As you have seen noted in industry periodicals that obviously people just can’t get outside and work and that’s where all the HVAC work is.
So that has had a negative effect on activity on business.
And we have a lot of quotes had a lot of activity in terms of prepping for it but it has slowed things down.
I don’t have a number on it.
Glenn if you have something specific on that? No I don’t think we got a number but we noticed our nuclear in particular too aftermarket business was down in the quarter.
And they have planned outages in that industry and they basically – as Dave said they work outside.
It precludes them to some degree to – from doing it.
So it shifted into the remainder of the year and this happens from time-to-time.
It should be a strong outage there for us by all plans.
Okay.
And then just for maybe modeling purposes here Glenn I guess if my math is correct AP1000 in the defense segment was about $21.6 million and then it looks like there is some movement in the commercial industrial and energy segments.
It looks like I guess some of the energy flows through to commercial can you just kind of give us a sense of what product areas are maybe moving between energy and commercial there? Yes.
I think the single biggest difference will be the AP1000 which is in our defense if I am understanding your question right is in our defense segment but obviously it falls through to the power generation the energy segment.
Right.
I guess you have got that reported in the defense revenues because if I take your defense by end-market I guess that only adds up to $180 million.
So the difference there to get to that total defense segment revenue would be the AP1000? That’s the big piece that’s the big piece.
The other is also included in there is our HVAC business which is in our defense segment but gets reported in general industrial.
Okay.
Or the commercial industrial.
And the other piece is we have certain thousand surface tech services that are in commercial industrial but really served the energy segment.
Those are probably the three biggest anomalies aligning our segments to the markets.
Okay perfect.
Alright that’s all I had guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hey Myles.
Yes can you hear me? Yes we can.
Okay great.
Thanks.
So one question first on organic growth Dave.
I know you are targeting the mid single-digit organic growth over the long-term and I am just curious as you think about a reacceleration to that point what are the things that need to be put in place? Where do you think it’s going to be led from? And also would we see a pickup in the book-to-bill materially before we see the organic growth take place or are they going to be largely coincident with one another i.e.
any kind of short cycle businesses? I am sorry did you say upstream? I actually said the pickup in organic growth.
Okay.
I think that it’s going to be pretty much a short cycle event across the board but the majority of the products that we have out there with exception of course of some of the bigger military ones like the shipbuilding but you can see in the sensor side and on the services side obviously very short cycle.
And then on the other elements in the industrial that we have within the sensory group are short cycle as well.
So I don’t see that ratio changing a lot but I do think it’s just going to be as orders flow in.
Okay.
And then on the Virginia class is the next block a substantially different ship set content for you in terms of size and revenue? No should be the same thing.
It is $60 million per sub.
And any impact to a step down in margin rates because you are in a new contract or again is it relatively flat? Yes it should be relatively flat yes.
Okay.
And then one last one and I apologize if I missed it the AP1000 investment what was that in the quarter and kind of what’s the milestone for full clear of that? Yes it was about a little bit less approximately $3 million charge in the quarter as e have been saying recently we are in the process of remanufacturing the first eight pumps on the China contract.
So this additional testing and modifications that are being required which again when you are building a first-of-a-kind pump and with a requirement for 60-year life we know this kind of cost growth is typical but we are committed to making the best product we can that meets our requirements as well as the Chinese.
And this will be fine we think it’s hopefully the end of the trail but we do expect to ship the first four pumps either late second quarter or early third quarter at this point.
Okay.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Thanks Myles.
Thank you.
I am not showing any further questions in queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to David Adams for any further remarks.
Thank you Ashley and thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our second quarter 2014 earnings call.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This concludes today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Curtiss-Wright's Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Jim Ryan Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Curtiss-Wright's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our call today is being webcast and the press release as well as the copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties and we detail those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company's website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave to get things started.
Dave? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
For our agenda today I'll provide a brief update on recent events followed by Glenn who will review our second quarter financials and discuss the changes to our 2014 guidance.
Then I'll return to provide some additional color on our margin expansion progress and opportunities before we wrap up and open the call for questions.
As you have seen by our press release we reported strong second quarter results and increased several elements of our full year guidance.
During the course of the second quarter we took some actions to reposition the portfolio and improve Curtiss Wright's overall profitability which tracks with our stated intent to improve operating margins.
This aligns with what we've been calling addition by subtraction.
First in April we divested our 3d-Radar business and our ground defense -- in our Defense segment which was a smaller business focused on 3D ground-penetrating radar and put this in the hands of a leader in that market space.
Second we sold our HVAC Controls business in our Defense segment as it never developed the critical mass we had expected to achieve.
While this business has tremendous technologies it was not in our mainstream and achieving the desired results of solid margin and market position would have taken considerably longer than desired.
This divestiture has resulted in improved margins for Curtiss-Wright and we also picked up some additional cash in the transaction.
Lastly we classified our Super Vessels business within our Oil and Gas division in the Energy segment as assets held for sale as we progress through the sale process.
Super Vessels market demand has not materialized as expected and this operating unit has been a drag on the downstream Oil and Gas business over the past few years.
We are actively working with interested parties which we feel would be a better strategic fit for the business and we will update you in the future on the status of this divestiture.
The result of these portfolio rationalization actions is significant improvement in operating margins EPS and ROIC for our ongoing results from continuing operations.
These actions also reduce our volatility and will create more consistent results for Curtiss-Wright moving forward.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn to provide a review of our quarterly performance and the financial details surrounding these actions.
Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
Note that our discussions today of current and future results are on a continuing operations basis.
We produced a solid second quarter with strong organic sales and operating income in our Commercial/Industrial and Energy segments including solid contributions from our 2013 and 2014 acquisitions.
Operating income rose 27% generating an operating margin of 11.7% up 160 basis points.
On an organic basis which excludes acquisitions divestitures and FX operating income increased 22% producing organic operating margin of 11.9% up 180 basis points from the prior year.
We also produced diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.93 in the second quarter.
The divestitures resulted in a $0.10 benefit to our diluted EPS from continuing operations and our results were a few cents above our initial quarterly expectations due primarily to margin improvement initiatives.
Overall these results keep us on track for strong performance in 2014.
In addition free cash flow for the second quarter was very strong rising more than 80% compared to 2013 driven primarily by the solid cash earnings performance and higher deferred revenues.
Finally we had solid new orders during the second quarter most notably within the naval defense market to the Virginia class submarine program supporting Block 3 and Block 4 ships driving our book-to-bill to 1.15x.
Moving to the end markets.
Our commercial market sales grew 12% overall during the second quarter aided by our recent acquisitions and continue to outpace the defense markets as expected.
In the Commercial Aerospace market we experienced another solid quarter of organic sales growth most notably for the Boeing 787 program.
We remain well-positioned for continued growth based on the multiyear production up-cycle in this market.
In the Oil and Gas market we generated solid organic sales across our diverse businesses led by solid domestic demand for upstream separation equipment and industrial MRO valves as well as higher international sales of our coker equipment.
Within the Power Generation market we continue to experience lower revenues on both the U.S.
and China AP1000 contracts.
However on a positive note we experienced a rebound in sales to existing domestic operating reactors for plant upgrades refurbishment projects and obsolescence solutions.
As expected the second quarter performance included the shipping sales from the first quarter following weather related delays.
This end market also benefited from solid demand for coatings services for industrial gas turbines.
In the General Industrial market higher sales were primarily driven by our Arens Controls acquisition serving the on-road and off-road trucks and specialty vehicles markets and a solid 11% organic growth.
Looking ahead we continue to expect steady demand for our industrial vehicle products based on the solid growth outlook for OEMs and increasing global demand to reduce emissions driving the need for enhanced electronics and power management products.
In the Defense market sales increased 2% overall following another strong performance in our naval defense market where we continue to receive funding for key U.S.
Navy shipbuilding programs.
Sales in Aerospace Defense were lower primarily due to timing on long-term production programs including military helicopters and the JSF and Predator programs while Ground Defense continues to see lower demand.
For the remainder of the 2014 we expect growth to continue on our key defense platforms particularly in the aerospace defense market.
Now I'd like to move on to our financial outlook beginning with our end markets which as a reminder is based on continuing operations.
For full year 2014 sales growth of 6% to 8% remains unchanged from our previous guidance.
Total defense sales are expected to grow between 1% and 5% and total commercial sales are expected to grow between 7% and 11% from 2013 both unchanged from our previous guidance.
However we made some modifications within the commercial end markets as you can see herewith.
In Oil and Gas we removed the sales from the Vessels business although this change did not impact the guidance growth range.
In Power Generation we lowered our sales growth primarily based on the ship and timing of domestic AP1000 project milestones out of 2014.
In General Industrial we removed the sales from the Benshaw divestiture.
As this business produced higher sales in 2013 than what we expected in 2014 the net effect is a higher end market growth rate for 2014.
And finally we removed the 3d-Radar divestiture which did not have a material impact on our guidance.
Continuing with our financial outlook.
I'll begin with the changes to segment sales which tied to the end market changes that I just previously discussed.
The most significant change took place in the Defense segment which reflects the removal of the Benshaw business and the reductions to AP1000 revenues.
Next I'll discuss our segment operating income and margin guidance which reflects the benefits of our ongoing margin and operational improvement initiatives as well as the net positive full year impact of discontinued operations.
These impacts were partially offset by lower sales volume which I'll describe momentarily.
Starting with Commercial/Industrial our guidance remains unchanged from our prior outlook.
As a reminder we are projecting a 200 basis point increase in operating margin compared to our 2013 results.
Next to Defense in the latest forecast prior to its divestiture we'd expect Benshaw's operations to improve in the second half which would have made it a net positive contributor to our operating income for the full year 2014 despite the first half losses.
Backing out this operation led to a reduction to our full year segment operating income from continuing operations.
However it provided a solid benefit to our margin guidance.
Our guidance change also reflects lower operating income due to the impact of reduced AP1000 revenues which I noted earlier and the benefit from our ongoing margin expansion and operational improvement initiatives.
Overall full year Defense segment operating income decreased by approximately $7 million while segment margin guidance increased 50 basis points to a new range of 13.7% to 13.8%.
Moving to Energy the improvements in operating income and margin are two-fold.
First they reflect the benefit of removing the lower profitability Vessels business which following the move to discontinued operations produced a robust contribution to our full year segment operating income and margin from continuing operations.
Second they reflect our continued efforts to improve profitability in the Oil and Gas business through the implementation of operational improvement and margin expansion initiatives across our operations.
Together these improvements contributed to a significant increase in operating income and margin which we're now projecting to range from 9.7% to 9.9% up 250 basis points from our prior guidance.
Overall Curtiss-Wright's total operating income reflects a growth range of 17% to 21% in 2014 while our operating margin has expanded 80 basis points to a new range of 11.1% to 11.3%.
As a result we have increased our 2014 guidance for diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to a new range of $3.50 to $3.60 up $0.15 compared to our prior guidance.
And as highlighted in the earnings release the breakdown of our diluted EPS guidance change is as follows: $0.10 contribution from the benefits of our ongoing operational margin improvements $0.10 net positive impact of moving certain businesses into discontinued operations and $0.05 decline based on the lower sales force -- forecast in our Defense segment.
Looking ahead sequentially we're expecting a decline in EPS from continuing operations in the third quarter with the fourth quarter being the highest as we have done historically.
Next to our cash flow.
Aided by the solid second quarter performance year-to-date we have produced strong cash flow from operations of nearly $85 million one of the strongest first halves in recent history.
That led to $48 million in free cash flow during the first 6 months of 2014.
Both the quarter and year-to-date performance was driven by higher cash earnings and higher deferred revenues.
And following the strong first-half performance we increased our full-year free cash flow guidance to a new range of $180 million to $200 million.
Based on expectations we're working capital improvements in the latter half of the year.
This also raised our expected free cash flow conversion rate to a range of 105% to 113% which tracks to our goal to maintain a conversion rate of at least 100%.
And finally the divestiture actions taken this quarter have produced a 70 basis point improvement in our overall return on invested capital.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave to provide an update on our future outlook.
Dave? Thank you Glenn.
We're very pleased to see the benefits of our margin expansion initiatives as they continue to manifest themselves by virtue of solid year-to-date results.
We are well on our way to achieving the results we set out in December of last year becoming a top performer within our peer group.
I'll now take a few minutes to provide some updates and then I'll open up the call to Q&amp;A.
We remain on track thus far with most operating margin improvement initiatives performing at or close to plan.
Our operating teams are focused and aligned with the goal of driving toward top quartile operating margin performance compared to the peer group.
Clearly the portfolio rationalization activities were a big highlight for this quarter.
While we made some respectable changes over the past few months we continue to review the entire portfolio for businesses or product lines which may not be core to our future.
It's also worth noting that we have a few more irons in the fire which could surface during the latter half of 2014.
We also have various consolidation programs in the works beyond the aforementioned corporate realignment initiatives as we examine the global footprint for additional cost-savings opportunities.
As Glenn noted our updated guidance reflects the benefits of some of these initiatives and thus far we are ahead of plan.
In addition we continue to evaluate numerous segment-focused opportunities where we are concentrating on our underperforming business units with the purpose of attaining their full potential.
We are devoting a considerable amount of attention to improving the operating performance of these businesses across each of our 3 segments.
Over time these and other segment-focused improvements will further contribute positively to our long-term performance.
Although I've only highlighted a few of our key initiatives today overall we maintain a high degree of confidence in achieving strong operating margin expansion.
Some of these you saw in our first half results and there's more to come in the future as we continue our drive to top quartile operating margin.
To recap we remain on track for a strong year in terms of operating income operating margin expansion EPS free cash flow and ROIC.
The benefits of our divestitures and ongoing margin improvement activities are measurable and contributing to our margin expansion.
In addition our continued efforts will drive strong double-digit increases in op income and earnings per share along with solid free cash flow.
Lastly I wanted to highlight that we've repurchased $24 million in stock year-to-date through June 30 under our share buyback program and will remain active through the remainder of 2014.
This fall we will reevaluate our cash position heading into 2015 and formulate a plan for the allocation of our capital.
We remain committed to our goal to have more balanced capital allocation between capital expenditures returns to shareholders and strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
Overall we remain very confident that our continual efforts to improve margin expansion and free cash flow generation will produce long-term shareholder value.
At this time I would like to open up today's conference call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michael Ciarmoli from KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 maybe Dave the Super Vessel business.
I mean as I understood it that was started because it was a -- maybe there was one other large competitor out there and you guys were going to maybe take share on this side of the world.
How -- are there a lot of buyers out there for that potential business? Maybe if you could just walk us through what kind of dialogues you're having or maybe if it's too early to discuss that.
But I mean do you expect to find to sell-- a buyer for that business? Yes Mike I'm very positive about this.
We're very optimistic that we will do something in the near term.
And the outlook is good.
So there are buyers out there very interested in this.
And I think that it's going to go as planned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm assuming that obviously revenues were minimal there and we can clearly see the benefits flowing through on the margins in Energy.
I mean should we think of Energy at this 11% plus level as a new baseline going forward for this year and into next year? I mean it seems like you've created a step function increase in the earnings profile of that group.
Anything -- going forward as I said we have several irons in the fire.
But I think certainly going forward obviously we feel very good about where we're at today with the changes we've made only to be further enhanced by the possibility of more that we're looking for and we do have several irons in the fire.
So yes I'm optimistic about the outlook in that regard as well and I think that there are many opportunities for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a last quick one here.
Any progress on the domestic coker front? I know you talked about the international side and it seemed like you were keeping your fingers crossed maybe last quarter.
But anything you can speak of on that front? We've got a lot of interest in terms of quotations coming in and with regard to cokers.
And I believe that as I said last time I was very very cautiously optimistic.
I still hold that.
And if just by virtue of the opportunities that we see manifesting themselves we think that there is some positive there.
And so that's another area of interest that I think the market is certainly showing a change.
[Operator Instructions] Gentlemen I am showing no one else in queue at this time.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our third quarter 2014 earnings call and have a great day.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program for today.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Curtiss-Wright's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference call may be recorded.
I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
Jim Ryan Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Sayeed and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Curtiss-Wright's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our call today is being webcast and the press release as well as the copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties and we detail those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company's website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave to get things started.
Dave? Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone.
For our agenda today I'll provide a brief update on recent events followed by Glenn who will review our third quarter financials and discuss the changes to our 2014 guidance.
Then I'll return to provide some additional color on our up margin expansion progress opportunities before we wrap up and open the call for questions.
As you have seen by our press release we reported strong third quarter results and increased several elements of our full year guidance.
We outlined our long-range goals at our Investor Day last December including our intention to become a top quartile performer within our peer group for our key operational metrics.
One of those key metrics is operating margin expansion where we have delivered solid results and today's report underscores the progress we're making to reduce cost and to leverage the critical mass of One Curtiss-Wright across the enterprise.
On the last call I indicated that we had a few more irons in the fire as potential divestitures.
As you have seen we have taken actions to reposition our portfolio and improve Curtiss-Wright's long-term profitability and returns.
As I've been telling you a key component of our long-term plan to enhance value is what I'd call addition by subtraction the divestment of businesses that are not core to our strategy.
I'll begin with the largest divestitures.
To be clear we are planning to divest 2 of the 3 arms of our oil and gas business in the Energy Segment which we typically describe as our upstream and downstream businesses.
We have elected to exit our oil and gas OEM businesses as they are no longer part of our core strategy.
They have been classified as assets held for sale accordingly.
We are retaining some of our aftermarket businesses that currently reside in the Energy segment.
Starting with downstream.
Our pending divestiture will come as little surprise to most investors.
We are planning to divest our cooking equipment and large vessel businesses serving the heavy crude refining process.
As you recall we entered the upstream market via the Cimarron acquisition a few years back.
Despite a respectable growth rate and what generally has been a good business for us we do not possess enough scale or critical mass in the upstream market sufficient to drive margin growth.
We believe these assets can make more meaningful contributions as part of a larger energy organization.
Collectively these assets within the oil and gas market had required that our management team devote vital time and resources to focus on businesses that are non-core to our current strategy.
The good news is we have widespread interest for both the upstream and downstream pieces in oil and gas and expect to complete these transactions by the end of the year.
Also we are pleased to announce that we successfully completed the sale of our super vessels business in the Energy segment in the third quarter.
Not only did we remove a business that was non-core to our operations and dilutive to our financial performance but we also transferred a 25-year lease obligation tied to the super vessel facility.
I'll remind you that the removal of these operations provided a solid boost to our full year profitability.
Moving on our additional divestiture activity includes plans to sell 2 businesses within our Defense segment as well as 2 businesses within our Commercial/Industrial segment.
Starting in the Defense segment we classified an engineered packaging business and an aviation ground support equipment business as assets held for sale.
The former serves the defense markets while the latter serves the commercial aerospace market.
We also announced plans to divest 2 surface technology facilities within the Commercial/Industrial segment.
Despite having sound technologies these businesses are not in our mainstream and achieving the desired results of solid margin and market positioning would have taken considerably longer than desired.
Management believes there would be a better strategic fit with different owners.
The divestiture activity that we've put into action encompasses the bulk of the portfolio reshaping that we expect to accomplish.
Overall these divestiture actions support our stated objectives to improve operating margins and returns and we have taken a giant step closer to achieving upper-quartile status versus our peer group.
We also will pick up some additional cash once all of the transactions are completed and deploy the proceeds as part of our balanced capital allocation strategy.
Going forward we are confident that we now have in place the strong asset base to achieve our long-term margin and cash flow goals.
These actions reduce our volatility and will create more consistent results.
Curtiss-Wright is now positioned as a less complex more focused and certainly more profitable enterprise.
Ensuring that our divisional management team has the proper focus is critical to driving our future success.
Our divestiture actions should enable the team to have fewer distractions and remain focused on the core businesses.
Finally these actions will help advance our efforts to meet our long-term operational and financial objectives.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn to provide a review of our quarterly performance and the financial details surrounding these actions.
Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
Our discussions today of current and future results are on a continuing operational basis which excludes both the current quarter and last quarter's previously announced divestitures.
As Dave noticed -- noted we produced a strong third quarter led by improved sales and operating income in our Commercial/Industrial and Energy segments as well as the benefit from our 2013 and 2014 acquisitions.
On an organic basis operating income increased 7% on a 4% increase in sales.
Reported operating income rose 13% generating an operating margin of 13.3% up 50 basis points from the prior year.
This growth was led by our higher sales and the continued benefit of our operating margin improvement initiatives including lower corporate overhead costs related to our organizational realignment initiatives.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.90 in the third quarter increased 14% compared to the prior year.
However to further clarify the strength of our third quarter results prior to the divestitures and relative to our previous guidance our diluted earnings per share would have been approximately $0.95 for the third quarter.
These results keep us on track for strong double-digit growth in earnings per share for 2014.
We also had solid new orders during the third quarter most notably within the international ground defense market for our turret drive stabilization systems.
And finally free cash flow for the third quarter was $50 million slightly above the prior year period.
And year-to-date we have produced nearly $100 million of free cash flow and remain well ahead of 2013.
Moving on to the end markets.
Overall commercial market sales grew 8% during the third quarter led by 2% organic growth along with the benefit from acquisition within the Commercial/Industrial segment.
In commercial aerospace market we produced another solid quarter of organic sales growth driven by higher sales on the Boeing 787 program as well as Surface Technologies services supporting numerous customers.
We remain well-positioned for continued solid growth based on the multi-year production up-cycle in this market.
In the oil and gas market we generated strong organic sales growth of 10% led by solid demand in our aftermarket business.
This growth also reflects the removal of the slower growth downstream revenues now part of discontinued operations.
Meanwhile within the power generation market we continue to experience lower revenues on both the U.S.
and China AP1000 contracts as well as lower sales to existing domestic operating reactors.
As the years progressed U.S.
nuclear plant operators have faced increased headwinds such as lower demand and higher operating costs that have led to restricted operating budgets as well as increased regulatory requirements that together have contributed to deferring spending on plant maintenance upgrades and power upgrades.
These challenges have also resulted in 5 plants' closures over the last 18 months.
Moving forward we believe that our product line diversity notably for obsolescence solutions and our focus on emerging issues will help to mitigate these headwinds and position us to grow when normal market conditions return.
In the general industrial market higher sales were driven by a combination of solid 9% organic growth as well as our Arens Controls acquisition serving the on-road and off-road truck and specialty vehicle markets.
Looking ahead we remain optimistic for increased demand for our industrial vehicle products based on a solid growth outlook for OEMs and increasing global desire to reduce emissions.
Next to the defense markets where sales increased 11% overall 7% of which was organic.
This performance was led by a 16% increase in aerospace defense due to higher demand for embedded computing products and several long-term production programs most notably for helicopters and the JSF program.
We also experienced another solid performance in our naval defense market where we continue to receive steady funding for key U.S.
Navy shipbuilding programs.
Next I would like turn to our financial outlook beginning with our end-market sales.
Full year 2014 sales growth of 6% to 8% remains unchanged from our previous guidance.
However we have refined our expectations in each of our major end-markets.
Total defense market sales are now expected to grow between 3% and 5% essentially at the high end of our previous range.
This change is primarily based on new orders and strong demand for our embedded computing products serving the aerospace defense market.
In addition we removed the sales attributable to the planned divestiture of our engineered packaging business which provides products across all defense markets.
Curtiss-Wright remains well-positioned to continue to outpace the baseline DoD budget growth.
Meanwhile total commercial sales are now expected to grow between 8% and 10%.
We've made some modifications within the commercial end markets as you can see herewith.
In commercial aerospace we removed the sales for the planned divestiture of the aviation ground support equipment business.
In oil and gas we removed the sales for the planned divestiture of the upstream and downstream businesses partially offset by improved optimism within our remaining businesses.
In power generation we've lowered the growth rate to reflect our expectations for reduced sales in the nuclear aftermarket and AP1000 new build businesses.
And in general industrial we removed the sales for the planned divestiture of the surface treatment businesses while also increasing our sales guidance tied to the industrial vehicle sales.
Continuing with our financial outlook I'll start with the changes to segment sales which tied to the end-market changes that I just discussed along with the following notes.
Higher sales in the Commercial/Industrial segment relate to improved expectations for increased sales of severe service industrial valve and industrial vehicle.
Lower sales in the Defense segment primarily reflect the removal of the businesses to be divested.
And the most significant change took place in the Energy segment which reflects the removal of the downstream and upstream oil and gas businesses.
Next I'll discuss updates to our segment operating income and margin guidance.
Note that the updated guidance for each segment reflects incremental operating margin improvement initiatives and the full year impact of discontinued operations.
Starting with Commercial/Industrial our guidance essentially remains unchanged.
We are projecting more than a 200 basis point increase in operating margins to a range of 13.1% to 13.2% compared to our 2013 results.
Next to Defense segment operating income was reduced by $6 million to reflect the impact of discontinued operations as well as reduced operating income due to lower AP1000 revenues which I noted earlier.
However our segment margin guidance increased 20 basis points to a new range of 13.9% to 14% due to the impact of divestitures.
Moving onto Energy segment operating income was reduced by $5 million to reflect the impact of discontinued operations and to a lesser extent the impact of lower power generation aftermarket revenues.
However our divestiture actions resulted in a significant improvement in operating margins reflecting the benefit of removing the oil and gas businesses.
As a result we are now projecting a margin range of 15.3% to 15.4% up approximately 550 basis points from our prior guidance.
Note that this is nearly double the previously reported 2013 results.
We also made a few offsetting tweaks to the corporate expenses.
We lowered our pension expense by approximately $3 million to reflect the curtailment charge that is now expected to take place in 2015 and we increased our corp and other expenses by $3 million to reflect the impact of higher foreign currency exchange losses.
Overall Curtiss-Wright's total operating income guidance decreased by approximately $9 million but still reflects a growth range of 17% to 21% in 2014 while our operating margin has expanded another 110 basis points to a new range of 12.2% to 12.4%.
We have adjusted our 2014 guidance for diluted earnings per share to a new range of $3.40 to $3.50 down $0.10 compared to our prior guidance.
However as highlighted in the earnings release the breakdown of our diluted earnings per share guidance change is as follows.
A $0.07 increase due to the incremental operating margin improvement initiatives a $0.05 increase due to the adjustment in our end-market sales as well as updates to interest taxes and shares outstanding partially offsetting a $0.22 decrease based on the net full year impact of moving certain businesses into discontinued operations.
So despite the negative impact to diluted earnings per share resulting from the removal of those businesses we expect to overcome more than half of that $0.22 decline as we drive our enterprise-wide focus on operating margin expansion.
Next to our cash flow year-to-date we have produced strong cash flow from operations of $153 million leading to nearly $100 million in free cash flow.
Both the quarter and year-to-date performance have benefited from higher cash earnings and higher deferred revenues.
We remain on track with our full year free cash flow guidance of $180 million to $200 million and are not making any changes at this time.
We expect the improvement over 2013 to be based on expectations for working capital improvements which is consistent with our goal to maintain a free cash flow conversion rate of at least 100%.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave to provide an update on the specific margin improvement initiatives and future outlook.
Dave? Thank you Glenn.
We remain on track thus far with our operating margin improvement initiatives.
Clearly the portfolio rationalization activities were a big highlight for this quarter.
Looking out over the next few years you should expect to hear more about the following areas as concrete drivers of further operating margin expansion under One Curtiss-Wright lean and operational excellence initiatives supply chain initiatives shared services and finally consolidation programs.
We're well on our way to upper-quartile performance versus our peer group and our management team is driven and focused to achieve our long-term objectives.
Next I'd like to discuss our share repurchase program.
Year-to-date through September 30 we've repurchased $45 million in stock under our share buyback program.
We will remain active through the end of 2014 as we spend the $21 million remaining under the prior authorization.
In September we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a new $300 million share repurchase program to begin in 2015.
Both the management team and the board believe it's appropriate to reward our shareholders with increased distributions in the form of share repurchases and dividends.
Over the next few months we will be finalizing our 2015 capital allocation plan and thus far we have expectations for a solid cash position in 2015.
In addition we expect to use a portion of the proceeds from our divestitures to fund some of the share repurchase activity in 2015.
However as we have not yet closed all of these transactions we have yet to determine the specific size or amount that we will dedicate to the repurchase program.
At our next earnings call in February we will provide you with a complete summary on our free cash flow outlook and expectations for share repurchase activity.
As we continue to state Curtiss-Wright remains committed to our goal to have more balanced capital allocation between capital expenditures returns to shareholders and strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
To recap our continued strong operating results paired with the portfolio rationalization actions we've taken thus far have led to significant improvement in operating margins EPS and return on invested capital.
We are on a well-defined path to meet these objectives and have demonstrated great success thus far.
I wanted to reflect on some of the highlights since our Investor Day last December comparing our 2014 projections to our actual 2013 results.
Operating margin guidance at the new midpoint of 12.3% reflects a 300-basis-point improvement in 2014.
Full year EPS is expected to grow nearly 20% compared to 2013 and ROIC increased another 120 basis points in the third quarter alone and now we're expecting it to be at 9.9% for 2014 up 250 basis points over our reported 2013 results.
Our operating teams are focused on the goal of driving toward top quartile performance compared to our peers for all of our key operating metrics.
We certainly have made some significant strides and I am very proud of what the team is achieved thus far in 2014.
In summary we remain on track for a strong year in terms of operating income operating margin expansion EPS and free cash flow.
We are very confident that our continual efforts to improve margin expansion and free cash flow generation will produce long-term shareholder value.
At this time I'd like to open up today's conference call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sure you are not going to be surprised by the question.
But given where you are at the end of the year in terms of the guidance on the operating margin it would seem to imply only 160 basis points left to get over the next 4 years to get your 14%.
So that's certainly a lot more modest than what you've done this year.
And so how should we think about that and whether the target could be moved higher now with a different portfolio after the shaping.
Yes I sort of expected to you to ask that question.
As I say it's one step at a time.
I'll characterize it this way though.
In all the conferences that we attend and people we speak with this is basically -- it's a journey as we stated earlier on.
Last December we did have low-hanging fruit that we took advantage of and we've capitalized upon as you can see from the results.
We'll continue to take some of that low-hanging fruit.
Some of the others that I described in my notes are let's say a little a bit higher they take a little bit longer and throughout that journey.
But one step at a time and I'm all about making a promise and trying to over-deliver on it.
That's where we're going with this business and as we go along the way over the next several years we'll see where that takes us.
But I'm very optimistic that we're doing what we've said we were going to do and we'll be very successful.
LLC Research Division</strong> And would you say the divestitures are pretty much complete in terms of what's been announced or are there are still other opportunities? Number one.
And then number two is there any way to think about what the total gross proceeds kind of order of magnitude might look like or how to think about that? With the first part of the question we have taken a hard look at our portfolio.
We started that last year early on and we expect that by the end of this year this really wraps it up.
So I feel confident that we will have achieved the core strategy marketplaces that where we want them to be and where we're going to drive.
And right now since we are in the process of -- we are in the actual process of selling these businesses I really can't talk to the proceeds from those.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one last question for Glenn.
Depreciation amortization looks like it's a little bit lower net income's a little bit lower CapEx is the same.
What's the offset to keep the free cash flow outlook in the same ballpark or does it just mean you're shifting where you're comfortable within that range? We believe that -- I'm not sure that the depreciation amortization is going to drop by that amount.
Realize that's probably not correct and we will get that corrected.
So our free cash flow guidance has essentially stayed the same from the last quarter.
My apologies.
And our next question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a follow-up on that one real quick Glenn.
So the free cash flow guidance stayed the same but you lost $0.22 of underlying operations that probably produced $10 million a year in free cash flows.
Is that about right? And so you're kind of just moving within the range or if you had left them in you would have raised the range? Well the way disc ops stay in your cash flow until they're gone.
Okay? So that's the reason why.
But you're correct that they do stay in the cash flow statement.
That's why we really didn't make a change.
Research Division</strong> And is the $0.22 that you're looking at for this year in terms of excluding them.
Was that -- how much off of their -- have these been persistently in that range or are these kind of towards trough-er conditions because of their end markets being depressed? They were low.
I don't know about the range.
But I mean they were our lower margin businesses.
I mean maybe I am not answering your question but...
Research Division</strong> I'm just curious have they always been lower margin and struggling or are they towards trough conditions within their end markets and that's what's kind of motivating the factor? Well a little bit of both.
I mean in the upstream they were really troughed.
That was a steadily growing businesses.
It's just not core anymore.
Some of the other ones were -- I don't know if they're a trough or not but they were just not making any progress towards -- and we didn't really made the evaluation that we couldn't really -- we don't have a path to get them there and they really will operate more efficiently we think in a different organization.
Myles let just me add little bit of color to that.
Prior to 2008 I'm thinking of 2004 2005 that particular element of the business was the top producer in terms of Curtiss-Wright and it did a phenomenal job for us.
And it just was -- as we grew and as we have grown and developed the strategy that's in other core areas we really looked at where this can take us in terms of what we would have to put into the businesses to bring them back to what they were.
They're still performing on the upstream side has been performing well.
And downstream as I've mentioned in the last couple of calls we've seen some optimism and some market return out there which has been very encouraging for us.
But frankly with the longer-term view that strategically it's something that for us to achieve critical mass we would had to have to put in a significant amount of money to achieve the similar kind of critical mass we have in the balance of the company as it exist today without these.
It's really a strategic move.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I may have missed at the beginning with two quick ones.
One is your carrying value for the assets is on the balance sheet I believe at 360 and I imagine that's been market tested.
And is that a fair representation of what we should think about as proceeds pretax pre-gain or not? And then number two for Glenn on pension for next year in terms of '15 are there any guideposts that you could give us on the headwind there that might occur from discount rates and mortality tables and anything else? I'll answer the pension one first.
We're not anticipating any major changes right now at least preliminary.
We go through our preliminary assessment now and then obviously in January we do the full assessment but initial indications is nothing dramatic.
Again on the book value -- again we can't really comment on the proceeds.
I mean it's just -- because we're in the middle of all those transactions right now I don't think it would be appropriate to.
So you're perfectly fine making yourself but I don't think we should comment on that at this time.
And our next question comes from Michael Ciarmoli from KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Dave or Glenn just to stay on the line of questioning where Sam was on the margin potential on the target.
If I quickly look through my notes here and do the back of the envelope -- I mean you guys talked about savings coming from $5 million from low-cost countries I think rationalizing the segments $40 million.
I mean it looks like you still have a lot of that dry powder left after the divestitures which seemingly does put you well above that 14% target.
I mean has anything changed there? I guess you've attacked the portfolio rationalization first.
So I guess what I'm looking for is has anything changed or can you give us an update on some of the other operational improvement initiatives? Maybe where you are in those savings of shared services site consolidations move to low-cost countries.
Yes.
Good question Mike.
We do continue on with the lean operational excellence type initiatives continuous improvement if you will.
We have had those for as long as I've been with the company.
But obviously with a more focused approach these days.
And yes there is more to come from that from the lean side there.
As far as I'm concerned and the rest of the management team there will always be opportunity for making these organizations leaner.
And certainly on the supply chain side I've characterized that as being a let's say a less faster turning type ship approach.
In other words the supply chain is something that's more characteristic of multi-year kind of contracts.
It takes you 1 year or so to roll off of the existing contracts.
So you can think of that as being -- now some of those are rolling off we're rolling into some new contracts.
We're spending about $1.5 billion this year.
We want to save what we have stated before we want to save about 3% of that.
And that's not all in 1 year that's over a period of time.
So that will bear fruit as we move along.
Shared services we're doing quite well in 2 of the 3 areas.
HR being really the last and the freshest.
And we're working on that right now.
So we would anticipate that over the next several years we'll start to see the fruit of that labor come to fruition and we see some definitely good benefits there.
It's not necessarily a completely centralized approach but it is a shared services approach that really maximizes the efficiency that you can utilize and improve the output.
And then lastly consolidation restructuring some of those.
I've talked in the past about how we take those on a basis of when for example a lease arrangement comes due.
And we do look at those we have a few that we're looking at next year.
And so we will gain some benefit from those as well.
And it'll go into -- a couple of them will go into '16 but it's a pretty well-defined roadmap for us that we've looked out to what we started with 2018 and now we've refreshed for ourselves to include 2019.
And to answer Sam and yours questions a little bit further not every business unit within our portfolio is at 14%.
There's some that are over that there are some that are under that.
We really don't sit still on those targets.
In other words even though some of them might be above that then we do challenge the management team and incentivize them to go beyond.
So it's not something that's going to end.
And like I said before I feel really great about the way we're really producing so far.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
That's helpful that's helpful.
What about on -- if I look you've obviously had now a number of divestitures.
Working capital still remains elevated and I know that's one of the things you wanted to attack.
Do some of these oil and gas divestitures just knowing the big nature projects that they were will that result in a material change to working capital lowering that working capital number for the remainder of this year or even into next year? No.
They don't have a material impact believe it or not.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just a last one for me.
Can you quantify? It looks like I guess those assets were generating $300 million.
I mean can you give us what they were run rating in terms of annual revenues and operating income? Well I can give you the revenue piece at least.
The downstream businesses combined were about $290 million in revenues.
The defense businesses were about $50 million in annual revenue and the Surface Tech combined was $5 million.
And our next question comes from Jim Foung from Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I just wonder if you can just share with us your -- kind of from a top-level point of view your rationale for putting these businesses into discontinued operations and then your rationale for what you may want to buy in the future? This disc op approach seemed to be the most appropriate for us.
As I indicated we have widespread interest in -- by various parties in the acquisition of those.
And you had seen what we did in second quarter with the super vessels.
And from a financial and accounting perspective that just seemed to work out best for us.
In terms of where we look going forward I have indicated that our capital allocation plan has been.
We're looking at it from a balance perspective.
But I've limited the acquisitions to bolt-on and strategic.
And I'm still there.
And those will be as I've said in the past aimed more in the areas where we do have a good critical mass and where we're growing.
I like the industrial sector I like the sensors within that group.
And we've done very well with those and with the acquisitions we have made in 2012 it's just phenomenal acquisitions that have done excellent for us and look to be great over the next 5 years 10 years out.
So I like those and those are General Industrial.
The Defense side it's still of interest to us with the right kind of application but I'd say not as high on the list.
And I have always talked about some of the MRO side as being something that I've always interested in.
On the nuclear aspect the obsolescence area we have done very well in despite some of the I'd say near-term sort of headwinds that the market is seeing because of some of the pushout of funding.
But that funding's going to come back and we feel good about it.
They need to continue to run these plants and they'll need to continue to have the expertise of people and products like we have in particular on the obsolescence side.
So I look at those but right now it's going to be a continued focus on strategic bolt-ons for the next 18-or-so months.
Inc.</strong> I presume that because you have this 14% operating margin target that all these businesses that you may acquire in the future has the potential to meet or exceed that targeting.
Yes.
When we look at the opportunities what we're looking at are high performers and definitely not fixer-uppers.
And so when I look at acquisitions -- and we continue to do so.
I see them on a weekly basis our folks bring them in and we are looking for those that are in the higher-margin areas.
So that we don't come in with a dilutive approach per se.
I don't really want to go back to fixer-upper.
I could certainly look at a let's say a strategic that may have an opportunity for consolidation.
Because that's where we're going to really make margin gains is consolidating the factories and/or sales or whatever the consolidation opportunity might be.
Inc.</strong> And then just for clarification what are the Surface Treatment facilities that you put in discontinued op? Those are not the shot peening businesses are they? No no.
One is a -- it's like a reed valve these are extraneous to the mainstream applications that Surface Tech applies.
So it's similar to them.
It's a little small one-off reed valve business is one of them the other is a some kind of fabrication facility that isn't core.
Neither one are core.
Inc.</strong> Right okay.
And then the upstream processing was the Cimarron business that you indicated? Yes.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Kristine Liwag from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just to get a little bit more clarification of a couple of items.
As you already mentioned on the free cash flow outlook the $0.22 in discontinued ops is included in that outlook.
But since you raised your operating EPS by about $0.12 is there another cash headwind that will offset that incremental earnings since your full year free cash flow outlook is unchanged? Yes.
I mean anytime we do a forecast there's puts and takes right? So there's always risks to the forecast as well -- usually there's more risk than there are opportunities.
So we're comfortable in the range where there's ups and downs all over the place.
But we're considering all of that.
We're comfortable with the range we have right now in being able to deliver that.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And one more clarification question.
Your revised revenue outlook for 2014.
Does that factor into discontinued ops for the full year run rate for 2014 or just through the second half of the year? It's the full year impact.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time gentlemen.
I would like to hand over the conference back over to Mr.
Dave Adams for closing remarks.
Thanks Sayeed.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
Have a great day.
Bye-bye now.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes our program.
You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Curtiss-Wright Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Jim Ryan Director of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Nicole and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Curtiss-Wright's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our call today is being webcast and the press release as well as a copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties and we detail those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company's website.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave to get things started.
Dave? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
For our agenda today I'll begin with a brief update on recent events followed by Glenn who will review our fourth quarter and full year 2014 financial performance and our 2015 guidance.
Then I'll return to provide some additional color on our margin expansion progress and opportunities before we wrap up and open the call for questions.
Just over 1 year ago we were discussing the numerous changes taking place under the vision of One Curtiss-Wright in order to better position our company for the future.
I'm happy to report that we made tremendous strides in 2014 and I'm very proud of the results produced by our various teams.
We established a game plan early on and our teams executed on that plan.
As a result we were able to drive efficiencies across every aspect of our company and the result is what we've promised increasing shareholder and customer value alike.
We are and will continue to be focused on cost improvement leveraging the critical mass of One Curtiss-Wright across the enterprise and achieving top quartile metrics.
Upon reflection some of the highlights of our 2014 performance include: operating margin at 12.6% a greater than 300 basis point improvement over reported 2013 results; full year EPS grew nearly 20%; return on invested capital increased to 10% up 300 basis points over 2013 reported results; and we generated excellent free cash flow with a conversion rate that exceeded 150%.
We are unwavering in our intention to deliver top quartile operational metrics within our peer group and our results speak for themselves.
Our strategies are working and best of all we see plenty of runway left on this journey.
Furthermore our focus on improving profitability expanding our margins and driving steady improvements in working capital and free cash flow will drive strong shareholder returns for years to come.
Now I'd like turn the call over to Glenn to provide a review of our quarterly and full year performance.
Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
Our discussions today of current and future results except for cash flow are on a continuing operations basis which excludes all divestitures.
Our fourth quarter results included solid improvements in operating income operating margin and especially free cash flow generation.
Operating income rose 5% due to the continued benefit of our operating margin improvement initiatives and lower corporate overhead cost despite slightly lower sales.
This led to an operating margin of 13.1% up 90 basis points from the prior year driven by improved organic sales and operating income in our Commercial/Industrial and Energy segments.
As a result diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.94 in the fourth quarter increased modestly compared to the prior-year period.
Following strong year-to-date results new orders were 8% lower in the fourth quarter primarily due to lower demand within the defense markets.
However new orders for the year were up 12% overall primarily within the aerospace and naval defense markets.
And finally free cash flow for the fourth quarter was $166 million exceeding our expectations and up 86% compared to the prior-year period with free cash flow conversion coming in very strong at 360%.
Moving on to our full year results we concluded 2014 with a strong overall performance.
Sales improved in both overall commercial and defense end markets.
Most notably due to strong growth in our general industrial and oil and gas markets.
Our full year operating income and margin benefited from our ongoing operating margin improvement initiatives specifically portfolio rationalization as well as lower cost related to our organizational realignment initiatives.
Overall operating income grew 19% 14% of which was organic driving operating margin up 140 basis points on a continuing operations basis to 12.6%.
However to further clarify the strength of our 2014 results if you compare our current performance to our original reported 2013 results prior to the divestiture activity operating margin improved 330 basis points year-over-year from 9.3% to 12.6%.
As you can see you by our results we have been steadily improving Curtiss-Wright's profitability through increased operational efficiency.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.46 increased 19% compared to the prior-year period.
And on the heels of a very strong fourth quarter we concluded the full year 2014 with a solid free cash flow performance that exceeded our expectations generating $265 million which equated to a 156% free cash flow conversion rate.
And finally we generated a solid improvement in our return on invested capital which increased 300 basis points from 7.4% reported in 2013 to 10.4% in 2014 due to improved operating performance and the divestiture of non-core assets.
As a result of our divestitures we are moving forward with a leaner and more profitable portfolio of assets which should continue to drive improvements in operating margin and return on invested capital.
Moving to the 2014 end market sales.
Overall commercial market sales grew 8% led by 2% organic growth and the benefit from acquisitions in the general industrial market.
In the commercial aerospace market we continue to produce solid results driven primarily by higher sales in the Boeing 737 and 787 programs as well as increased Surface Technologies revenues.
In the general industrial market higher sales were driven by a solid combination of 5% organic growth as well as our Arens Controls acquisition serving the on-road and off-road truck and specialty vehicle markets.
Growth in this end market was primarily driven by sales from medium- and heavy-duty commercial vehicles.
Overall our 2014 sales grew 19% in this end market.
Next the oil and gas market where we experienced solid fourth quarter and full year sales growth.
As a reminder due to the previously announced divestitures which are included in discontinued operations this end market primarily consists of our industrial valve businesses whose key products include severe service and pressure-relief valves.
While the overall oil and gas industry was impacted by the swift reduction in oil prices during fourth quarter the net impact to Curtiss-Wright was negligible due to our broad product diversification.
I want to note that while 10% of total Curtiss-Wright 2014 sales remained in this end market approximately half of these sales were actually to the chemical and petrochemical customers.
As a result and in order to simplify Curtiss-Wright's end market structure these remaining sales are now reflected in the general industrial market herewith and going forward given the more industrial-focused nature of these businesses.
And finally within the power generation market.
We continue to experience lower revenues on both the U.S.
and China AP1000 programs as they continue to wind down.
On the aftermarket side beginning in the second half of this year we experienced lower sales to existing domestic operating reactors due to lower outages plant closures and deferred spending on plant maintenance due to competitive pressures resulting from lower natural gas prices.
And next to the defense markets where sales increased 3% overall in 2014.
In aerospace defense we experienced higher demand from embedded computing products in general and on several long-term production programs most notably helicopters and the Joint Strike Fighter.
We also experienced another solid performance in our naval defense market where we continue to benefit from the steady funding of key U.S.
Navy shipbuilding programs most notably for the Block 4 build of the Virginia-Class submarines which was partially offset by lower sales on the Ford-Class Aircraft Carrier program based on timing of production.
Next I'd like to move on to our 2015 financial outlook beginning with our end market sales.
Full year 2015 sales are expected to grow between 2% and 4% in both our overall defense and commercial end markets.
I'll begin in the defense market where overall defense industry sales are expected to be flat in 2015 as sequestration has largely been avoided.
For Curtiss-Wright our 2015 outlook for overall aerospace and naval defense sales is relatively flat from 2014 while ground defense sales are expected to be higher.
Sales to the naval market will be impacted by essentially flat year-over-year production on both the Virginia-class submarine and Ford-Class Aircraft Carrier programs.
In aerospace defense we're expecting a mixed performance in 2015.
The Joint Strike Fighter program is expected to be one of the key contributors while overall helicopter sales are expected to be down.
In ground defense however international sales will continue to be solid in 2015 primarily aided by a contract for a turret drive stabilization system supporting a large-scale program in South Africa.
And domestically we anticipate renewed sales in the U.S.
as modernization programs for the Bradley and Stryker vehicles begin to ramp up.
As a result we expect improved overall ground defense sales in 2015.
In the commercial aerospace market we expect sales to be relatively flat with 2014.
Hardware sales to Boeing are expected to improve again in 2015 primarily driven by higher sales in the 737 program but those gains are expected to be somewhat offset by lower shot peening sales.
We're also expecting improved sales for regional jet and commercial helicopters.
In power generation we expect sales to be flat in 2015.
As previously noted since the middle of last year we have seen increased headwinds impacting U.S.
nuclear plant operators which led to several plant closures and deferred spending.
We expect these challenges to continue this year and as a result we are projecting reduced sales in our power generation aftermarket business.
In the new build business we expect lower production on the existing domestic and China AP1000 programs in 2015 as these projects continue to wind down.
We continue to negotiate and finalize the contract language for the new AP1000 China order which we now expect to receive in the third quarter of 2015.
Therefore our guidance for 2015 includes production revenues and operating income relative to the new order of $13 million and $3 million respectively.
Note that we expect this program to be a significant driver of future organic growth in our new build power generation business and overall Curtiss-Wright for years to come.
Next to our general industrial market which we expect to be our leading market performer in 2015 with sales growth ranging from 5% to 9%.
Based on the critical mass that we achieved over the past few years we expect to benefit from the increased demand for our industrial vehicle products based on solid growth outlook for OEMs and increasing global desire to reduce emissions.
Within our industrial valves business we expect to see continued strong global demand for our petrochemical and refinery-related MRO product offerings supporting ongoing maintenance needs.
And within the services side of the general industrial market we expect our Surface Technologies businesses to benefit from solid demand for our highly technical peening and coating services to domestic and international customers particularly in the automotive industry.
Continuing with our financial outlook based on our expected sales growth range of 2% to 4% in 2015 nearly all of which is organic we expect full year sales to be approximately $2.3 billion.
Total operating income guidance is expected to grow 7% to 10% in 2015 while operating margin is expected to expand another 70 to 80 basis points to a range of 13.3% to 13.4%.
All 3 segments are expected to benefit from incremental operating margin improvement initiatives in 2015.
And finally our guidance for diluted earnings per share is a range of $3.80 to $3.90 which represents double-digit EPS growth of 10% to 13% over 2014.
In addition we expect approximately 40% of our full year EPS to be in the first half of the year which is significantly different than 2014 where 46% was generated in the first half of the year.
The primary driver for this difference is that we expect to incur costs relative to completion of the engineering and endurance testing from the current AP1000 program in the first half of the year and benefit from the new China order in the second half.
As you saw in the press release issued last night and as a result of previously announced discontinued operations we are realigning certain segments and businesses as follows.
The Energy segment will be renamed as the Power segment.
The businesses serving the new build power generation and nuclear naval defense markets which had previously been reported within the Defense segment will join with the nuclear aftermarket business in the new Power segment.
The remaining oil and gas businesses which had previously operated within the Energy segment will join the Commercial/Industrial segment and this also supports our change in the end market guidance to represent these businesses within the general industrial market moving forward.
The Defense segment will be comprised primarily of the electronics businesses providing ISR and electronic warfare solutions to the aerospace and ground defense markets.
As a result restated historical financial results for 2014 and 2013 periods are included in the earnings press release and are downloadable from the Investor Relations section of our website.
Please note that starting with our first quarter 2015 results we will be reporting in the new segment structure.
Next to our 2015 segment guidance in the new structure.
Starting with the Commercial/Industrial segment sales are expected to grow 3% to 5% primarily led by growth in the general industrial market.
We are projecting a 30- to 40 basis point improvement in operating income compared to 2014 to a range of 14.8% to 14.9%.
The increase in operating income and margin will be driven by improved sales for industrial vehicles sensors and industrial valves.
Offsetting those improvements is a slight reduction in profitability for surface treatment services following a robust 2014.
Next to the Defense segment where sales are expected to grow 2% to 5% primarily led by growth in ground defense markets.
We are projecting solid improvement in operating income compared to the 2014 results driving a 110 to 120 basis point increase in operating margin to a range of 18% to 18.1%.
Higher profitability will be driven by solid demand for our turret drive stabilization systems and embedded computing products for both defense and commercial applications.
Moving to the new Power segment sales are expected to be flat to slightly lower in 2015.
However we are projecting significant improvement in operating income compared to our 2014 results driving a 160 to 170 basis point increase in operating margin to a range of 11.4% to 11.5%.
The most significant drivers are improved profitability on the domestic AP1000 revenues compared to a challenging 2014 as well as higher margins associated with the new AP1000 China order.
Next I want to take a few minutes to discuss our pension plans.
On January 30 2015 we elected to make a $145 million contribution to our corporate-defined benefit pension plan.
This contribution will substantially offset the headwinds in our 2015 pension expense as a result of declining interest rates.
Further this action will significantly lower our projected pension expense and eliminate the need for further cash contributions over the next 5 years.
We believe this contribution has a strong return on investment of approximately 10% as the company's pension plan assets have consistently produced a solid rate of return in addition to the resultant elimination of PBGC premiums.
And for 2015 we are projecting pension expense to be approximately $33 million.
Finally we are forecasting 2015 diluted shares outstanding to be 47.8 million based on our expectations for share repurchases to more than offset the dilution from stock issuance.
Next to our cash flow.
For 2015 based on the benefits of our operational improvement initiatives and working capital reduction efforts our free cash flow guidance adjusted to exclude the $145 million pension contribution is expected to range from $245 million to $265 million with an expected conversion rate of 135% to 142%.
As compared to 2014 on a continuing operations basis we are maintaining a very solid free cash flow level similar to our very strong 2014 results.
And finally the capital allocation we have expectations for a solid cash position in 2015.
I want to reiterate our commitment to having a more balanced capital allocation between capital expenditures returns to shareholders and strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
We ended 2014 with approximately $450 million in cash on the balance sheet of which $250 million is domestic and currently invested in marketable securities.
Considering our operating cash flow for 2015 and anticipated proceeds from divestitures we expect to have approximately $600 million of available cash to deploy in 2015.
The combination of the pension contribution and capital expenditures represents about 1/3 of our expected available cash that will be used for operational needs.
We expect to allocate another 1/3 of our operating cash flow to our shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends which Dave will cover in a few minutes.
And the remaining 1/3 will be available for potential bolt-on acquisitions all of which supports our balanced capital allocation strategy.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave to provide an update on our operating margin improvement initiatives and future outlook.
Dave? Thank you Glenn.
As promised we wanted to give you some specific insight into how we've performed during the first year under the One Curtiss-Wright vision.
In short we had a phenomenal year in 2014.
As you can see on this slide our operating margin improved 330 basis points in 1 year as it increased from a reported 9.3% in 2013 to 12.6% in 2014.
Without a doubt the key contributor was portfolio rationalization and the divesting of several noncore businesses which was part of our addition by subtraction strategy aimed at alleviating any management distraction from our primary objectives.
Since our last call we completed the sale of our upstream oil and gas business as well as the commercial aviation ground support equipment operation and closed 3 underperforming facilities within our Surface Technologies business.
It is worth noting that following the 2014 divestiture of our upstream processing business we no longer have significant exposure to the upstream market.
In addition we are proceeding with the divestiture of the remaining downstream oil and gas assets that are being held for sale despite the recent difficulties in that marketplace.
These remaining businesses are comprised of solid teams of dedicated employees who provide very technically advanced and robust products.
While the timeline has pushed slightly to the right compared to our initial plans we expect to complete the sale of these assets by mid-year.
Our divestiture actions alone resulted in 210 basis points of margin improvement in 2014 enabling us to achieve upper quartile status versus our peer group.
The portfolio rationalization actions have helped both strengthen our portfolio and improve Curtiss-Wright's profitability and returns providing an even better-than-expected benefit.
Overall the divestiture activity that we've put into action encompasses the entirety of the portfolio reshaping that we expect to accomplish at this time.
Consolidations and corporate realignment also played a key role representing 80 basis points of margin improvement in 2014 as we delayered the organization.
Combined these actions represent the bulk of the low-hanging fruit that we have been able to remove from our day-to-day operations and they have significantly improved the operating margin profile of Curtiss-Wright.
Now that we've had time to reflect upon the past year's performance I'd like to take a few minutes to walk you through our future plan in line with our commitment of more transparency with the investment community.
Having progressed through the first year under the One Curtiss-Wright vision and given the many changes that have taken place including size structure and financial performance levels we have diligently reviewed our projections that we've presented at Investor Day as well as our initial assumptions for operating margin expansion.
As a result some of our assumptions are changing.
First I want to review our organic growth outlook.
Our long-term guidance for the 2014 to 2018 period was 5% to 6% compounded annual growth rate which exceeded the growth rates across nearly all industries in which we participate.
While we're still confident in achieving solid overall organic growth general business conditions and economic activity play a role in our sales growth and we currently feel that the prior range may no longer be realistic.
As such we're revising our long-term outlook for organic sales growth to a new range of 3% to 5% still outpacing our served markets.
We'll continue to focus on growing our top line and driving organic growth including expectations for solid industrial sales the ramp in the next aircraft carrier and future contracts on the AP1000 program just to name a few.
Our operating margin for 2014 clearly surpassed the previous upper quartile guidance of 12.5%.
We continue to target the upper quartile performance and we estimate that when we update that analysis after peers have filed their 2014 10-Ks top quartile will increase from 12.5% at Investor Day to somewhere north of 14%.
The bar will be raised across the entire peer group and we're up for the challenge as top quartile performance whatever it is remains our goal and we have a line of sight for achieving this goal.
We took care of the low-hanging fruit in 2014 and the more difficult work lies ahead.
Our team remains focused on achieving solid operating margin expansion to reach and maintain upper quartile status.
With that I'd like to provide an update as promised on the key buckets that will drive further operating margin expansion and upper quartile performance.
At our Investor Day in December 2013 we indicated that at that time we would need approximately $100 million of additional operating income in order to achieve our margin target of top quartile performance.
Further we indicated that we would aim higher than that goal or approximately $170 million accounting for the fact that things don't always go according to plan.
We've done a detailed analysis of our operating margin initiatives and are resetting the total cost reductions for the period 2014 through 2018 as set forth in December 2013 to $130 million and we have increased visibility and confidence in achieving these results.
First off the portfolio rationalization resulted in a much larger benefit to our operating margin plans than originally expected.
Generating 210 basis points in margin improvement would equate to the elimination of approximately $40 million of additional cost savings that we would have needed to achieve the same level of operating margin.
Of the remaining $90 million approximately $25 million was achieved in 2014 primarily from our consolidation and corporate realignment activities.
Further we expect to achieve an additional $25 million in 2015 with the remainder occurring in 2016 through 2018.
Our savings will continue to be tracked in the following 6 areas: portfolio rationalization; operational excellence including lean and supply chain; low-cost economies; segment focus; shared services; and consolidations.
All are ongoing initiatives with the exception of portfolio rationalization which was essentially completed in 2014 and greatly contributed to our results.
So while the new dollar total savings may not necessarily match up to the high end of our initial day -- Investor Day expectations we still expect to achieve top quartile performance versus our peer group.
We're certainly on our way to even better operating margin performance over the 5-year period than we anticipated aided by the significant benefits of portfolio rationalization and this should drive our operating margin north of 14%.
Next a quick recap on our share repurchase program.
In 2014 we've repurchased more than $65 million in stock under our share buyback program.
For 2015 we expect to repurchase at least $200 million in stock as we continue to reward our shareholders which should exceed potential dilution from stock issuances.
This planned repurchase activity falls under the new $300 million share repurchase authorization granted by our Board of Directors this past September.
As we continue to state Curtiss-Wright remains committed to our goal of achieving a more balanced capital allocation between capital expenditures returns to shareholders and strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
In summary 2014 marked a strong start on our journey to upper quartile performance.
Our continued strong operating results coupled with the recent portfolio rationalization actions led to significant improvement in operating margins EPS free cash flow and return on invested capital in 2014.
While we have demonstrated great success thus far we're not stopping here.
The One Curtiss-Wright vision is a journey and we will continue to strive for and achieve improved performance to the best-in-class level.
We are on track for another strong year in 2015 in terms of operating income operating margin expansion EPS and free cash flow.
And we remain confident that our continual efforts to improve margin expansion and free cash flow generation will produce long-term shareholder value.
At this time I'd like to open up today's conference call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I understand that last slide you were just talking about in terms of the cost saves.
So the $65 million is what? That's the remainder of the $130 million that you're still targeting? The $65 million Sam is what is remaining in the period 2015 through '18.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess what I'm trying to understand is if 2/3 of the margin gains that you were hoping to get you've already realized from the portfolio rationalization I'm trying to just understand what's different now in terms of what you think you could get before that now you can't.
I would've expected there to be upward pressure in terms of the 2018 margin outlook as opposed to what it sounds like is not upward pressure.
Well I would say -- I wouldn't say we necessarily -- some of the things have taken a little longer than we experienced.
I mean we came out with pretty broad calculations and estimations of what we thought was in front of us.
And really we sharpened the pencil was really what it comes down to.
There's nothing really more than that.
And some of these items...
Some things roll out a little slower like especially supply chain.
We've said it but that one especially seems to roll out -- by the time we -- our forecast now our call it rib sticking it's not I sign the contract and I'm going to save 3%.
I'm saying show it to me in the P&amp;L and that's what we're including in our projections now.
So couple of things like that.
Shared services we thought -- as an example we thought we'd have a little bit more there.
But when we peel the onion back I mean our IT transformation was pretty much completed already.
And finance has had some laps and HR still has some.
So it's fine-tuning.
That's all it is.
We wanted -- we never gave you transparency as to how and when this occurs so we're also trying to do that and so that we can lay it out in how we see it occurring over the next -- the remainder of our 5-year journey.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at the revenue assumptions for 2015.
In the segment breakdown I -- highlighted I guess it's -- ground defense and general industrial growth are clearly well above everything else.
What are the specific programs? I mean you mentioned the South African turret.
But how much visibility do you have in both I guess that industrial piece as well as the defense that those will come through this year? Well on the ground defense we have that contract.
And it's big so we know that particular increase.
And just so when we talk about ground defense just remember it doesn't take a lot to get a big percentage increase in that market that has been so low over the years.
So that contract -- and actually we are -- they are reviving the modernization plans.
I mean on the Bradley and the Stryker vehicles we knew this day would probably come once they canceled the GCV and we have visibility to that on the defense side.
General industrial also has some pretty large programs looming.
But whether -- I don't know off the top of my head how much of their 2015 is in backlog or not offhand.
But they also have some pretty large programs as well in that market.
Our next question comes from the line of Kristine Liwag of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So when we kind of take a step back right? I mean you mentioned that the change in your strategic outlook with the savings is more fine-tuning.
But it's a pretty large difference because right it's $40 million of change.
Can you just walk through maybe how your assumption process is different this time? And why we should feel confident that $130 million is actually the real number we should be looking at? Well yes.
And as I said the $170 million was shoot the moon right? That was a compilation of numbers that Tom threw out as potentials right? The $100 million was the real calculation.
That's our hard -- we just said -- if we stopped after Investor Day and said "What do I have to do to get to top quartile?" We needed $100 million.
Tom presented probably the "shoot the moon" if nothing because we want to contemplate that things are going to go wrong.
I mean they're not all going to go according to plan right? You're not going to get every dollar.
And part of it is we're starting to see some of the things with timing like I was just talking about before.
But just remember we're still shooting for top quartile performance.
It really -- that -- so we can -- you can put any numbers you want on the paper but we're going to -- we plan on it and we will achieve top quartile and probably exceed top quartile performance at some point in the not-too-distant future.
So there are -- broader assumptions were made for Investor Day and we fine-tuned them and we thought it was appropriate to share that with you and the timing.
And we said we'd do that after 1 year.
This is our scorecard report we said we'd do.
Because the middle of the year there's so many moving pieces.
And as you have been asking us but we didn't -- we said it was probably be more appropriate to wait until we conclude the full year.
And the other thing is again I used the example supply chain I mean we were calculating a percentage of our total spend.
One our total spend's come down right off the bat so that will bring the number down.
And a lot of the things we have planned come down because of the size that -- we reduced our size.
But with supply chain you're thinking 3% of spend that's going to take a while.
And we're -- the way we're looking at now is how's -- when's it going to roll through the P&amp;L? When are we actually see these in our operating income? Not when I negotiated a contract with Office Depot that's going to save me 10% on paper and that kind of stuff.
So hopefully we're hoping you appreciate that we've done a fair amount of diligence on this.
And we're trying to be transparent and we're going to get top quartile.
And I think when you step back and look at what we are presenting to you I think you -- hopefully you'll agree with us but...
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And I guess just to dig down a little bit deeper there.
So should we really think about the $130 million that you're providing now as being compared to more of the $100 million before? Or is the shooting-the-moon number now $130 million instead of $170 million? It's the shooting-the-moon number is now $130 million.
And that's a good question.
I mean we were trying to stick with that because a lot of people had that in their minds that we're trying to stay consistent.
And it's the latter.
It's the $170 million now has become $130 million.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then the -- just a follow-on your revenue outlook for commercial aerospace.
You highlighted shot peening as a headwind in 2015.
Can you walk through more what the different drivers you're seeing there and why shot peening specifically as the headwind? I'll talk to that Glenn.
In what we experienced across the globe in all of our locations is a periodic movement of either a plant or -- let's say plant will close down on a particular location and our shot peening services are no longer needed in that location.
They may move elsewhere and we had several things occur in this case in the last 12 to 18 months.
And that was between the mix in business that we've got and those adjustments that have taken place.
And some of the movement that has taken place in specific some of the movement out of some of our U.K.
facilities have gone to South Korea and so they have -- no longer require our services in that regard.
So that moved away.
It is backfilled from a profitability standpoint by other business.
And that's typical of the model -- the business model that we run on the services side.
We -- as indicated we also had some mix actions in there as well as some foreign exchange activity that sort of impacted that a little bit.
Kristine maybe just to clarify that 1 slide again just so we understand and maybe help everybody.
The $170 million clearly comes from a compilation of comments made in each of the categories at Investor Day.
We've now reset that to $130 million.
If we were to do it today at Investor Day it'd be $130 million.
Of that $130 million $40 million of it was accomplished via the disc ops.
So you take that out and what's left is $90 million.
Okay.
Of the $90 million we're saying we accomplished $25 million in 2014.
And that leaves $65 million for the years '15 through '18 of which we're saying $25 million is going to reoccur in 2015 as well.
That's what we're trying to do is to bring you through from -- Investor Day through the 5-year span maybe -- hopefully that clarified.
Our next question comes the line of Stephen Levenson of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I know you've talked about the addition by subtraction and I'm just wondering if you feel there's anything left to subtract.
And if you're getting to the point where there are things you feel you need to fill in where there's some addition ahead how does that fit with your cash flow and cash deployment? Yes that's a great question Steve.
It's always difficult for me personally and the organization to part with businesses that are strong in their own regard.
And as I indicated in my text there a few minutes ago the -- what's remaining right now is the downstream side of oil and gas.
Great products great people great future just not a core element of our vision going forward.
And it will be superb in the hands of the right owner.
And so I'm looking forward to that for that group.
And in terms of this it for us? Yes.
It pretty much is it.
We took a long look -- hard look at this 18 months ago and these were the companies that looked like would not be core to the One Curtiss-Wright vision.
And so we have -- we did elect to make those divestitures most of them have occurred.
As indicated we are in the process of this remaining downstream and hopefully we'll have some results of that fairly soon to be able to talk about within the next quarter or so.
And in terms of filling back in I've been always on the lookout for the right properties from bolt-on perspective because as we talked about we have a balanced capital allocation strategy that we've deployed.
And you can see if you follow the numbers we've got some money there to spend in the bolt-on area.
And we are looking at some that are very strategic to the company.
We continue to move forward in not all of the areas but most of them.
And if I were to just highlight a few if your next question would be what specific interest I would tell you that we always like sensors we like valves and in particular the severe service valve industry that we are in.
And on the industrial side we're doing a fantastic job there with the acquisitions we made in the last several years.
So we would perpetuate that as well.
Nuclear is always Steady Eddie for us so I like that.
So yes the answer is yes I'm looking for some backfill.
Nothing huge.
Bolt-on to me definition is under $100 million.
And we've got some things that are in the works and pipeline kind of activity that would help to support some of what I would believe as being very strong opportunities for us to fill in some of the gaps.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Michael Ciarmoli of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Kevin.
You touched on a couple of the pieces in commercial aero for next year.
I mean the growth there kind of flattish a little bit below kind of what we're seeing for the rest of the group.
And you mentioned the shot peening.
You mentioned some strength from the 37.
Just wondering if there's any other kind of moving pieces within commercial aero next year that you could touch on.
Yes.
There is one specific area that I didn't talk to and that is as I have indicated in -- for most of the conferences that I attend is that is I don't mind being a smaller company but with much better operating margin.
And we are obviously demonstrating that and we're demonstrating the move upward on the EPS side and certainly op margin.
And that's of primary importance to me.
And as a result of that some contracts that we look at as opportunities when we get an opportunity to bid we may have had contracts for a period of time and/or we may look at new ones that would constitute some of the organic growth that we might have otherwise seen.
We'll take a fairly stringent line on where we want to participate.
Part of our plan our overall margin improvement plan was to include the pricing strategy.
And if we cannot accept the contract with a pricing strategy that contributes to this overall op margin improvement vision and goal and direction then we won't accept it or we won't bid it.
So there's some of that in there and I'm not got quantify how much but there's a fairly good amount in there in that regard.
And I did mention mix.
So those things all combined add up to something that we think is a let's call it relatively conservative approach.
And I anticipate that out of the range that we gave you that we do have some opportunities that we're chasing that we feel very good about.
And we might improve upon that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great color.
I appreciate that.
Just looking at the Defense segment in the quarter revenues margins both down year-over-year.
It looks like that was driven by the AP1000.
Just wondering if you could confirm that.
And then maybe a deeper dive on the AP1000 in terms of kind of where you're at on cost and orders both domestically and in China? I'll do the deeper dive on the AP1000 first just to give you an update.
I'll let Glenn talk to the financials in the quarter relative to that.
But on the progress and where we are to date on the program is I feel in a very good place.
Obviously would feel to be a better place if we had an order a year ago or so.
But I feel very good with the progress that we've made.
We've had some refinement of our design and we've had some very very recent testing of that refinement in almost the last couple of days.
And the results have come back positive for us.
We feel very comfortable with that.
I'm confident that the team is yielding a product now that is going to meet the parameters that we need to meet.
And that's why it's taken so long.
We've indicated before and I'll indicate again this is a 60-year life pump.
It's got to be -- once you plug it in you walk away and come back 60 years later it's supposed to be working.
So those are extremely complex.
But we will be entering the engineering and evaluation test -- endurance and evaluation testing this month.
And we expect to come out of that testing it's a 100-day test in the June timeframe.
And so far the preliminary test going into that the EMD test have been great.
And so I expect to come out in June with some positive results.
Things occur in between that 100-day period.
In other words we have cycles of this testing that give us better guidance in terms of where we're at technically and how the production outlook would be with production units.
And so we're going to be seeing as this time goes on how it's performing.
We'll get periodic updates.
And I look to be positive because of the changes that we've made.
So in terms of how it's looking just in anticipation of probably another question at least if not from you someone else when would we expect an order? We indicated that we expect one by the end of this half this first half.
And we expect to be moving along very nicely with the completion of the EMD testing.
And then we'll start rocking and rolling with this program.
Glenn how about the financial question? Yes it's a combination.
It's not just AP1000.
Obviously that's a piece of it but that program continues to be winding down.
We're also spending most of our focus right now on the testing and so on and so forth.
But the Defense is also down in the quarter.
The Defense side which is primarily naval defense with lower aircraft carrier revenues due to timing and also lower on the DDG-51 that was partially offset by some higher revenues on the submarines.
But net-net naval defense was down as well.
So it's both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Just a last one from me.
I mean maybe if you guys can give some more color on the new segments in terms of the end market mix next year.
It looks like there's about $35 million of a gap in commercial between the new segments and the old and $60 million in Defense.
Just kind of wondering if you can talk a little bit in terms of modeling expectations by end market for next year? Let me just say one thing.
I mean really the only change in market reporting is we took those couple of oil and gas valve businesses that was in the Energy segment and moved it to the Commercial/Industrial and particularly to the general industrial market.
So from a market standpoint it's really just a shift between Energy and Commercial/Industrial right? Or Oil &amp; Gas and Commercial/Industrial out of Oil &amp; Gas because we'll no longer report Oil &amp; Gas and we'll report those sales in general industrial.
That's really the only change per se from a market standpoint.
[Operator Instructions] I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the call back to Dave Adams for any closing remarks.
Thanks Nicole and thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our first quarter 2015 earnings call.
Have a great day.
Bye-bye now.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Curtiss-Wright First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference to our host Mr.
Jim Ryan Director Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Eric and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Curtiss-Wright's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our call today is being webcast and the press release as well as a copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties and we detail those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company’s website.
Finally our discussions today of current and future results except for cash flow are on a continuing operations basis which excludes all previously announced divestitures.
In addition any references to organic growth typically exclude the effects of foreign currency translation acquisitions and divestitures.
However for the purposes of this presentation organic excludes the impact of foreign currency translation while the impact from acquisitions is immaterial.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave to get things started.
Dave? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
For our agenda today I'll begin with a brief update on recent events followed by Glenn who will provide an in-depth review of our first quarter financial performance along with updates to our 2015 guidance.
Then I'll return to provide some additional commentary on our margin expansion progress before we wrap up and open the call for questions.
We're off to a solid start in 2015.
On an organic basis we produced a 16% increase in operating income and a 3% increase in sales.
As Jim noted the difference between our reported and organic results is the exclusion of foreign exchange.
Higher sales were primarily driven by improved demand in the defense markets led by a strong start in ground defense.
Our operating results also reflects solid performance in the power segment which benefited from a one-time event and strong organic growth in the Commercial/Industrial segment.
We're also experiencing the ongoing benefits of our operational and productivity improvement initiatives across all three segments.
Together these factors drove continued improvement in our overall operating margin which increased 210 basis points to 13.3% and organically was up 150 basis points to 12.7%.
As we have demonstrated we are leveraging the critical mass of One Curtiss-Wright to drive efficiencies throughout the company.
As a result our initiatives as laid out in late 2013 continued to manifest themselves in steady operating margin expansion.
Overall we reported diluted earnings per share of $0.89 which exceeded our expectations and topped our prior-year results primarily based on the timing of the one-time event in our power segment.
We also produced 8% growth in new orders led by higher demand in our defense markets.
This growth was based on our leadership positions in embedded computing and nuclear propulsion equipment and bodes well for continued solid organic growth; book-to-bill was 1.15 in the first quarter.
Next I'd like to provide some additional comments on our performance within the power segment.
During the first quarter we received a termination change order from our customer on the former Progress Energy AP1000 plant in Florida.
This plant was never constructed due to state funding constraints.
This was one of the three plants that were expected to be built as part of our original domestic AP1000 contract back in 2008.
This change order was anticipated in 2015 though originally in the second quarter but was received in the first quarter and does not change our full-year outlook.
As a result of this order our first quarter diluted EPS included a one-time net benefit of $0.10.
At this time we are maintaining our current full-year 2015 diluted EPS guidance of $3.80 to $3.90.
Further we anticipate continued margin improvement during the second half of 2015 led by solid growth in all segments.
We remain confident and on track for another exciting year.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn to provide a more thorough review of our quarterly performance.
Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
I'll begin today with a review of our first quarter sales by end market where higher overall sales in defense were partially offset by a slight decline in our overall commercial markets.
In the defense market sales increased 4% overall and 6% organically.
We were especially pleased with the solid performance in ground defense as international demand for our turret drive stabilization system continues to gain traction where we are currently supporting several new foreign ground defense programs.
Although this improvement is from a fairly low base sales increased 35% in this end market during the first quarter.
In aerospace defense we experienced a mixed performance as higher sales on the joint strike fighter program were offset by lower helicopter sales.
We expect this trend to continue for most of 2015 based on current production forecast.
Within our navel defense market we continue to benefit from the steady funding of key U.S.
navy ship building programs with higher first quarter sales primarily driven by the Block 4 build of Virginia-Class submarines.
In the commercial markets sales decreased 1% overall but increased 1% organically.
In the commercial aerospace market higher hardware sales of actuation systems sensors and controls were essentially offset by lower sales of [indiscernible] services which was primarily due to the negative impact of FX.
Overall organic sales were flat in this end market.
In the power generation market sales increased 4% overall.
Excluding the aforementioned one-time benefit related to the AP1000 termination order we continue to experience lower revenues on the China AP1000 program as it continues to wind down.
Further relative to the aftermarket business we continue to experience lower sales to existing domestic operating reactors based on ongoing deferred spending on plant maintenance and upgrades.
And finally sales in the general industrial market declined 4% overall in the first quarter predominantly due to the unfavorable foreign currency translation.
In our industrial valves business despite higher MRO sales we experienced lower sales related to timing on international oil and gas project orders as well as unfavorable foreign currency translation.
However this is primarily a timing issue as we continue to have a positive outlook for the energy markets for the full-year 2015 led by continued solid growth in MRO sales.
Elsewhere in the general industrial market we benefited from higher domestic sales of industrial vehicle products primarily for medium and heavy duty commercial vehicle.
Moving on I will discuss the key drivers of our first quarter operating income and margin performance.
Please note for purposes of this presentation organic excludes the impact of foreign currency translation.
The Commercial/Industrial segment produced solid operating income and margin performance.
Operating income was up 12% on 2% organic sales growth driving a 170 basis point improvement in operating margin to 14.5%.
And while FX negatively impacted segment sales it had a negligible impact on operating income.
Key drivers of this improved performance included higher sales in our industrial vehicles business as well as improved profitability in both of surface treatment services and industrial valve businesses despite lower sales volumes due to the ongoing operational and margin improvement initiatives.
In the defense segment operating income was up 14% and operating margin was up 190 basis points to 15.9% though there were some pluses and minuses.
In our embedded computing business we experienced continued strong growth in sales and profitability as we continue to elevate Curtiss-Wright as a market leader in this industry.
However that improvement was principally offset by higher estimated cost on certain long-term development contracts.
In addition segment operating income included a $2 million favorable impact of FX.
Excluding this FX impact organic operating income was flat while organic operating margin declined 50 basis points to 13.5%.
Next in the power segment operating income increased 37% and operating margin was up 350 basis points to 14.5% principally driven by the benefit of the aforementioned termination change order.
However absent this order lower sales in the nuclear aftermarket business and lower production revenues on the China AP1000 program reduced first quarter operating income resulting in an 80 basis point decline in operating margin to 10.2% for the quarter.
Overall our combined segment performance was solid producing 15% organic operating income growth while overall Curtiss-Wright organic operating income increased 16% driving a 150 basis point margin improvement to 12.7%.
Moving on to our financial outlook beginning with our end market sales.
Overall 2015 sales growth up 2% to 4% remains unchanged from our previous guidance as sales are expected to grow between 2% and 4% in both our overall defense and overall commercial end markets and nearly all of the end market guidance remains unchanged with the exception of ground defense.
On the heels of the strong first quarter performance and improved optimism tied to contracts for turret drive stabilization systems we have increased the ground defense guidance range to 26% to 30%.
We offset that improvement with a few minor changes that left overall defense market guidance unchanged.
Continuing with our financial outlook and as Dave noted earlier we are maintaining our current guidance at this time.
In the Commercial/Industrial segment we are closely monitoring numerous influences in the marketplace and the potential impacts on our business including the unsettled European economies fluctuations in FX rates U.S.
economic data and uncertainty regarding the timing of U.S.
interest rate increases.
As a result we are maintaining our current sales growth rate of 3% to 5%.
In the defense segment we are encouraged by the positive signs coming out of Washington as the industry appears to be stabilizing and the outlook for the fiscal year 2016 defense budget looks promising.
We expect most of our key programs to be funded even if the budget is subject to some level of sequestration and we are maintaining our current sales growth rate of 2% to 5%.
Sales in the power segment will primarily be influenced by the AP1000 program and our expectations for nearly flat sales growth remains unchanged at this time.
Turning to our 2015 profitability outlook as a reminder one of the primary drivers of our quarterly operating income outlook for 2015 is we expect to incur cost relative to the completion of the engineering and endurance testing on the AP1000 program in the first half of the year and benefit from increased production and the new China order in the second half.
The majority of these costs will occur in the second quarter as testing is expected to be completed by midyear.
As a result the first half of the year is expected to show a moderate operating income and margin growth however we expect a strong second half of the year and this pattern follows a similar trajectory as we have done historically.
Further this growth is expected to come from not only the new China order but more so from an increased sales in the ground defense industrial vehicles and industrial valves.
In ground defense we continue to recognize increased international demand for our turret drive stabilization systems.
We've had success with large orders in South Africa and Saudi Arabia and many of the countries are planning upgrades to ground combat platforms especially in the Middle East Europe and Asia which should drive continued solid growth in this end market.
In industrial vehicles we're expecting continued strong demand in North America where positive economic growth is fueling expansion of truck industry fleet capacity.
Meanwhile conditions are improving in Europe and China the latter of which will begin to drive increased demand for our key products based on newly expected and much needed emission requirements.
Within industrial valves we expect to see continued strong global demand for our chemical and refinery related MRO product offerings supporting ongoing maintenance needs more than offsetting lower project sales.
As a result we remain on track to achieve 7% to 10% growth in total operating income and 70 basis points to 80 basis points in operating margin expansion to a range of 13.3% to 13.4%.
As Dave noted our 2015 guidance for diluted earnings per share is a range of $3.80 to $3.90 which represents double-digit EPS growth over 2014.
Next to our cash flow.
During the first quarter and as noted on our previous conference call we made a $145 million pension contribution that significantly impacted our first quarter reported results.
We anticipate that this action will significantly lower our pension expense and eliminate the need for further cash contributions over the next five years.
If you remove this pension contribution from current and prior-year periods our first quarter adjusted free cash flow was $10 million lower than the prior year due primarily to higher tax payments in the current year partially offset by higher cash earnings.
Please note that our first quarter free cash flow results are consistent with our historical performance which is typically much lower than the rest of the year as it normally includes large annual cash outlays primarily tied to compensation.
And despite the first quarter decline I reiterate our solid free cash flow position for full-year 2015 as we continue to expect a free cash flow level similar to our very strong 2014 results.
And lastly I wanted to provide an update on our discontinued operations.
Our efforts to sell these businesses continued to progress.
As a result of continued uncertainty within the oil and gas markets we recognized an additional net valuation loss of $27 million or $0.57 during the quarter.
While it is our practice not to discuss specific details of ongoing sales processes for obvious reasons we will update you when the processes are completed.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave to provide an update on our operating margin improvement initiatives and our future outlook.
Dave? Thank you Glenn.
I'd like to provide some additional color on the AP1000 program.
I'll start with existing contracts for the initial plants in China and the U.S.
We continue to make progress in the production of our first of a kind reactor coolant pumps or RCPs supporting the China AP1000 nuclear program.
We are nearly two-thirds of the way through the 100 day engineering and endurance testing phase if all continues to go as expected this would keep us on track for deliveries of our RCPs starting in the third quarter.
Additionally we continue to secure smaller contracts for support equipment on AP1000 as well as other global reactor designs which are expected to nicely contribute to our overall content overtime.
Regarding our next AP1000 order we anticipate contract negotiations will wrap up once we conclude the engineering and endurance testing and as indicated we remain hopeful to receive the next China order in the third quarter.
Longer-term there are an increasing number of countries that are planning to include nuclear power as part of their future energy mix.
With our growing domestic and upcoming footprint in China Curtiss-Wright is expected to play a key role in support of this industry expansion.
Next I'd like to elaborate on the drivers of further operating margin expansion and our goal to reach and maintain upper quartile performance versus our peer group.
In March we completed our analysis of the peer group's 2014 performance.
We then recalculated the new tiers to identify the upper quartile or 75th percentile based on a rolling three year average.
Top quartile operating margin is now 14.2% which is previously noted was expected to be significantly higher than the prior target of 12.5%.
Our management team remains focused on operational excellence and achieving consistent solid operating margin expansion.
At our current guidance range of 13.3% to 13.4% for 2015 I'm pleased to say that we're within reach of upper quartile status.
First and foremost we're aiming to reach and then maintain our position in the upper quartile of our peer group with the ultimate goal of being at or near the top.
As noted on the slide we're tracking these savings in the following areas: operational excellence including lien and supply chain; low cost economies; segment focus; shared services; and consolidations.
We remain on track with our key initiatives in 2015 particularly within segment focus where the team has dedicated to improving the returns of some of our core but underperforming businesses.
Overall our enterprise-wide focus on driving synergies and producing significant cost savings is expected to generate solid results.
Next to capital allocation.
We remain committed to our goal to keep a fair balance between operational needs returns to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends and strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
In the first quarter we repurchased approximately $50 million in stock under our share buyback program.
For 2015 we expect to steadily repurchase at least $200 million in stock tripling the amount spent on repurchases in 2014 as we continue to reward our shareholders.
This planned repurchase activity falls under the $300 million share repurchase authorization granted by our Board of Directors this past September.
We also continue to pay a steady dividend.
During the first quarter we completed one small bolt-on acquisition in our surface treatment services business.
While we have a solid pipeline of acquisition candidates there are no acquisitions on the immediate horizon.
Further we will continue to invest in our business with a strong focus on organic growth which remains critical to our long-term success.
As a reminder operational needs includes our ongoing CapEx as well as the $145 million pension payment.
Finally as we more efficiently manage working capital and improved cash flow will create even more opportunities to deploy in the best interest of value creation.
We are confident that these efforts will benefit our shareholders over the long run.
In summary we're off to a great start and continue to expect another strong year in 2015.
We remain confident in our guidance to produce 2% to 4% sales growth in both our defense and commercial businesses in 2015.
Further we expect to meet or exceed the growth rates in most of the markets in which we participate.
We're making great strides in our various initiatives supporting the One Curtiss-Wright vision which have and will continue to possibly impact our results.
Our continued focus on improving operating margin should drive strong double-digit increases in operating income and earnings per share providing a high level of confidence in our free cash flow outlook.
We have a lot of runway left on this journey and we'll continue our surge to reach upper quartile versus our peers for all of our financial metrics.
Our team is confident and focused that our ongoing efforts to improve margin expansion and free cash flow generation will drive strong shareholder returns for years to come.
At this time I'd like to open up today's conference call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And our first question comes from Michael Ciarmoli from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
May be Glenn just on the one-time termination gain of $0.10 in the quarter I guess that was contemplated in your guidance but was that higher margin? I mean stripping that out it seems like if I looked at just the core margin expansion in power it's not really showing much year over year.
I mean if you could just may be give us more kind of -- a little bit more the profile around that that termination settlement again it did seem pretty additive I guess to the margins in the quarter? Yes well yes these -- just the sales impact was $10 million and the OI impact was $7 million.
So I'd call that fairly good margin.
So though we need to strip it out I mean if you look at if you look at the power segment it's still consistent with what we said originally they're going to have a lower first half due to the testing cost and a higher second half due to the order and also increased production in that segment.
So we're still on -- so the first half will be a lower margin half and the second half will be a higher margin half and we're still on target based on our full-year guidance of I believe about 11.4% in that segment.
Okay.
Okay so we'll really just start to see the ramp in the second half.
Okay that's fair.
And then may be Dave just on the operational improvement plan when should we expect I know one of the benchmarks there was working capital as a percent of sales.
I mean when should we expect to see some of the impacts of what you guys are doing on working capital? I mean on a trailing basis it's still running in that upper 30 level and I know you guys have some pretty big aspirations to drive that down.
So I'm just wondering when we might start to see some of the gains there.
I'll answer the first part and then I'll let Glenn get into some specifics.
We -- we as indicated before are paying a considerable amount of attention to that and as we enter this new first quarter of the year we put a lot of emphasis on curtailing some of those expenditures that would be related to that and watching and measuring those very very closely.
So we're going to continue to see those things ramp up and improve that is as we've discussed before one of our -- let's say one of our biggest challenges and but we feel confident that we're going to arrive at the end point that we want to.
Glenn how about talking about some of the specifics on those? Yes I mean couple of things we did in working capital couple of things to note on working capital.
One is we changed the waiting for working capital reduction in our compensation systems to place more emphasis on it so we're trying to continue to increase focus on the metrics we think are very important of which this is one of them return on invested capital being another.
But I will say we are projecting a decrease in our working capital throughout the year but as we typically if you look at our pattern unfortunately as we -- we used it in the first half and we gain it in the second half and we are again pretty much in the same ballpark though I will say our -- if you look at our our cash flow performance being again the strongest last year a good piece of that is going to be coming from working capital reductions which you will see as the year progresses.
Okay.
Is there a lot of that tied to the AP1000? I mean will we see an impact once you guys start shipping more of those RCPs? Will that have an impact? Not not really because that's all on POC accounting.
So I mean that's really this is really just your base private working capital plus deferred revenue which is our advanced payment that's the other account that we include internally in our working capital because it represents cash that we've gotten upfront and it’s important we got to keep our management team incentivized on contracting -- negotiating and getting contractual terms that offer that so but no I wouldn't say working capital is tied to AP1000.
Okay.
And then last one from me and I'll jump in the queue.
Commercial aerospace -- it's growing obviously well below peers.
I know you had one customer loss in surface treatment.
I mean is there anything else we should be looking for there I mean or anything else you guys are doing? Is it just tougher comps or may be just explain -- I mean we've seen pretty healthy OE growth through this quarter and I think peer companies are still looking for pretty robust growth given activity on rate increases H7 A350.
I mean any other explanations for the weakness in commercial aero for the year? No you already hit the top ones at the beginning of your question there the surface technologies with some of that business some that we're not bidding on as a result of our own interest to maintain the margins that we want to maintain in that business.
So I'd we're being quite selective in our approach to that particular market.
There are ample opportunities for us to bid at much lower margins on work with the rates increasing and going where they are but those are under a lot of pressure that the margin pressure that I'm not necessarily interested in taking that for quantity sake.
And it just our plan is to get up to that upper quartile like we talked about and we're going to do that now there are some that you take on for absorption reasons.
But for us from a general perspective we see our commercial aero as being pretty steady eddy in the elements that we're particularly interested in and we're happy with that.
So at the sake of taking on extra or taking up extra volume with lower margin I'm just not interested in that kind of work.
Got it.
So you're not interested in partnering for Boeing's success? No we are absolutely and we have partnered for our mutual success and I think that in that regard that particular program was doing quite well for us.
We're very happy with that we've achieved so far.
And I think our customer is very happy and there are a lot of opportunities outside of Boeing Direct that we want to bid to.
And as a result of the margins that would be requisite to win it.
And we are quite happy with the success of that partnership program.
We've been dealing with Boeing for over 80 years now.
And hopefully we can all be mutually successful and we certainly worked it that way and like I said I think everybody is happy.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Just add to that Michael so that that was little bit commercial aerospace sales in the first quarter was also negatively impacted by FX just that's part of the reason we were down.
Got it.
All right perfect.
Thanks guys I'll jump back in.
Our next question comes from Kristine Liwag from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
First my question is with the AP1000.
Can you provide a little bit more color on the size of opportunities for the product after testing is complete may be over the next few years? And as a follow-up to that what is your dollar content if a new plant is opened? Well we haven't even provide we don't even have the details of the new order per se right now so never mind the next three years; so we really couldn't probably shouldn't while we're still in negotiations with China and Westinghouse.
Just suffice it to say it's large better than China -- We would like to give you more direct answer Kristine -- Yes.
But we are in current negotiations with our customer and we can't really disclose that at this point.
As time goes on we'll able to.
But it is certainly a very strategic program for us and we look forward to a lot of success there.
But as a first milestone that we should look for is the order from China? I'd say that first milestone internally for us is successful completion of the E&amp;E testing which we've indicated will be midyear let's say June and then shortly thereafter sometime in the third quarter we're hopeful that we'll achieve the completed negotiations and successful acceptance of a contract.
And after that it starts to ramp up takes a little bit of time some initial benefit and then over the next subsequent several years it starts to pick up pace.
Great.
And you bought back the $47 million of shares in 1Q out of the $200 million that you've guided to this year.
Should we think about the cadence of share repurchases to be evenly split throughout the year? Yes we've gone on a -- we call it peanut butter spread throughout the year lovingly referred to and so we'll continue that cadence.
Sure.
And then one last one from me.
When we think about the FX activity can you give us an idea of how that really -- how you're thinking about that for the rest of the year and then what kind of FX rates you have embedded in your outlook? Yes I mean I don't know if this is accurate but I could tell you what we -- in the 2015 the major three currencies that impact us are the Euro British Pound and the Canadian Dollar so I'll give you those three.
So in our 2015 assumptions we modeled in a 10% reduction in the rate for the pound an 8% reduction and for the CAD.
I'm sorry the CAD was 10% I said the wrong thing the pound 8% and the euro 13% those were our assumptions that is baked into our guidance for 2015.
So that means the rate -- those are the rate declines versus year-end 2014? Is that how to think about it? I'm just trying to think if it's average or year-end probably average for the year it will be the average yes okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
If I look at one of your slides where you talk about the outlook of the year in the different sub-segments help me understand what's in that general industrial end market where you were negative 4% for the quarter but still expect 5% to 9% growth for the year.
What's really going to drive that growth and why do you have the confidence of getting there? So in the industrial segment the general industrial market as we talk to it its industrial valves its industrial vehicles its surface technology services and sensors industrial sensors.
But what's driving the growth I guess is what I'm trying to think about it in the remaining three quarters to still get you that kind of growth rate after minus 4%? I know the minus 4% has foreign exchange in there.
Yes I mean it's a couple of pieces it’s the industrial vehicles and I think as I pointed out we're expecting a continued growth in the North American markets as well as in China and other pieces of the world based on these new emission standards.
It's our -- in the industrial valves it's mostly our MRO valves for the energy markets which has been continually one of our steadiest performers in the same thing.
They will have a better increased second half versus the first half of the year.
And what else in that bucket those were the two big drivers in that particular market.
Okay.
And you mentioned the $0.10 of the I guess one-time item was expected in the second quarter.
Are there any other kind of big unusual items that you kind of included in the forecast for the remaining nine months of the year? No I mean again the AP100 program in and of itself has many moving pieces.
We try to cull out what we thought was going to influence our half-to-half which was the testing in the first half and the orders and production in the second half.
And so this doesn't really affect that half-to-half it does affect our quarter-to-quarter so the second quarter we have to move whatever we had from originally we thought we're just going to be in the second quarter to the first quarter and we also have $2 million of higher incremental testing cost in the second quarter but other than that there is nothing else that we have -- nothing else large Sam or abnormal.
Okay.
And just on those costs that you talked about in terms of the testing costs is there a way to think about the segment profit or even the earnings impact? I know you don't want to get into a quarterly guidance but just thinking about what the margins can look like in power in the second quarter when you include those kinds of additional costs.
They're going to be; well they're going to be fairly low.
I mean I don't want to go into exactly but as you can imagine they're going to average out to a rate for the half but again we had determination in our orders for now but first there's going to be certainly much lower than the first quarter.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is actually [indiscernible] on for Myles.
How are you guys doing? Hey good.
Hey good.
How are you doing? Good morning.
Good.
So just wanted a clarification on the target margins the 14.2% is that still for 2018? We have steadily maintained that and yes we're going to leave it there for now.
We hope that we can improve upon it by the time we get there.
I see no reason why we could not but that's been the journey that we set out upon and at this point we are making good progress toward that.
I would agree.
And then also just I know you talked about margins ramping through the year.
Is that from the 13.3% from the first quarter are you adjusting that for the one-time gain I guess? No you'd have to move that into the second quarter if you really want to say a ramp yes.
Just wanted to make sure.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions].
And our next question comes from Steve Levenson of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Just curious how much of your capital expenditure is in overseas locations and if it's a meaningful amount would you accelerate the spending to take advantage of the strong dollar? I have to say I don't have the breakdown of our CapEx by region on my fingertip Steve so I couldn't tell you at this point I don't know.
I don't -- I think it's probably larger North America for sure.
So to be something less than 50% and I just couldn't tell you how much less probably a lot.
Okay.
Regardless of that would you accelerate or do you plan to accelerate the spending on the overseas stuff? We have not explored that yet.
Okay thanks.
And one for Dave on the margin drivers.
Among the five categories you discussed on Slide 9 which do you think are going to be the easiest to get right now and which will be the most difficult? The margin drivers are some are longer than the others and some of them will be through our supply chain that we've talked about in the past that has been a slow steady ramp up of improvement over time and we're seeing that continue as a slow steady approach.
Our low cost economies are potentially a big driver because you switch a program to a low cost economy like Mexico you immediately derive the benefit of that labor rate and arbitrage.
And so we do make let's say in some of those considerable improvements.
Now there is a ramp up of efficiency and learning curve that usually comes with some of those movements but that tends to be one of the quicker ones.
So out of those I'd say those are -- the slow and steady up and then the low cost economy and then some of the obviously the consolidations and that sort of work that we've done that's a fast pick up.
And then lastly I'd say that some of the shared services side is an area that is more along the slow and steady line we do see and monitor track very closely all of our gains that we have planned and some that come up on an opportunistic basis in that shared services side to achieve those earlier than may be downstream let's say another six to 18 months.
So I'd say leaving off for those first couple those are the ones that come more quickly.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
I'll now turn it back Dave Adams for closing remarks.
Thanks Eric appreciate it.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Have a great day.
Bye bye.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your attendance.
You may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Curtiss-Wright Second Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Jim Ryan Director of Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you Michelle and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Curtiss-Wright's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our call today is being webcast and the press release as well as a copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties and we detail those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of the presentation and will be available on the company’s website.
Finally our discussions today of current and future results except for cash flow are on a continuing operations basis which excludes all previously announced divestitures.
In addition any references to organic growth exclude the effects of foreign currency translation acquisitions and divestitures unless otherwise noted.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave to get things started.
Dave? Thank you Jim and good morning everyone.
For our agenda today I'll begin with a brief update on recent events followed by Glenn who will provide an in-depth review of our second quarter financial performance along with updates to our 2015 guidance.
Then I'll return to provide some additional commentary on the status of our AP1000 and margin expansion programs before we wrap up and open the call for questions.
We reported $0.83 in earnings per share in the second quarter which exceeded our expectations despite the fact that we had higher cost in the power segment associated with the AP1000 program.
As discussed on the prior earnings call we expected to incur costs relative to the completion of the engineering and endurance testing on the AP1000 program in the first half of the year the majority of which will be in the second quarter.
We also reported additional cost in the quarter relative to final modifications to our reactor coolant pumps.
Excluding those costs our overall operating results demonstrated solid improvement year-over-year as we continued to leverage the critical mass of One Curtiss-Wright to drive operating margin expansion.
For example our second quarter results included a 520 basis point margin increase in our defense segment and a 30 basis point gain in the commercial industrial segment despite a small drop in sales.
Although we have experienced some headwinds in our industrial businesses based on the continued low oil price environment our outlook in the industrial markets remains cautiously optimistic.
Additionally it is worth highlighting that we repurchased $50 million worth of stock in the second quarter continuing our commitment to steady share repurchases.
Overall we remain confident and on track for a solid performance in 2015.
We anticipate continued margin improvement during the second half of 2015 and are maintaining our current full year diluted EPS guidance of $3.80 to $3.90.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Glenn to provide a more thorough review of our quarterly performance.
Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
I’ll begin with the review of our second quarter sales by end market where higher overall sales in defense were more than offset by a decline in overall sales in our commercial markets.
In the defense markets sales increased 9% overall and 11% organically which excludes FX and acquisitions.
Leading the way with ground defense which increased 37% over the prior year as we continued to benefit from strong international demand for our turret drive stabilization systems.
We are currently supporting several new foreign ground defense programs and recently announced receipt of a sizeable production order on the UK scout program.
In aerospace defense higher sales of our ISR-related embedded computing products most notably for the joint strike fighter Global Hawk UAV program were partially offset by lower helicopter sales.
In Naval defense higher order sales driven by the Block 4 build Virginia-class submarines were essentially offset by lower aircraft carrier revenues.
In the commercial markets sales decreased 11% overall and 8% organically.
As expected one of the major drivers were lower revenues on the AP1000 program in the power generation market based primarily on lower domestic production.
Within the nuclear aftermarket business we continue to experience lower sales to existing domestic operating reactors based on ongoing deferred spending on plant maintenance and upgrades.
In the commercial aerospace market the decline in sales was primarily driven by lower sales of avionics and flight test equipment while OEM sales were essentially flat year-over-year as most production levels remain unchanged from 2014.
And finally sales in the general industrial market declined 10% overall in the quarter.
Our results reflect a widespread impact of lower oil prices on our industrial businesses so nearly half of the decline was due to unfavorable foreign currency translation.
In industrial valves despite a pickup in our MRO business we continue to experience lower sales related to timing on international oil and gas projects.
In industrial vehicles our results included higher sales of products for medium and heavy duty commercial vehicles that were more than offset by lower sales on products for hybrid and off-highway vehicles.
Moving on I will discuss the key drivers of our second quarter operating income and margin performance.
The commercial industrial segment produced operating margin improvement in the second quarter despite lower sales due to a combination of mix and FX.
FX negatively impacted segment sales by $12 million and operating income by $1 million.
Overall segment operating income was essentially flat on a 3% decline in sales resulting in operating margin improvement of 30 basis points to 14.9%.
This performance was driven by higher profitability in industrial vehicles despite the lower sales due to ongoing operational and margin improvement initiatives partially offset by lower profitability and surface treatment services in industrial valves a sizeable portion of which was due to unfavorable FX.
It is worth noting that on a year-to-date basis the commercial industrial segment has produced a solid 100 basis point margin expansion as this segment remains focused on aggressively mitigating costs given the current macro environment.
In the defense segment operating income was up 35% and operating margin was up 520 basis points to 20.4%.
Operating income included a $3 million favorable impact of FX.
Excluding that impact organic operating income grew 21% on a 5% increase in organic sales resulting in an organic operating margin improvement of 240 basis points to 17.6%.
This strong performance was driven by continued solid growth in our embedded computing business as well as the benefits of a newly signed international ground defense contract which generated a solid contribution to operating margin in the quarter.
Next in the power segment which as expected was impacted by costs relative to the engineering and endurance testing on the AP1000 program.
In addition now that the design has been finalized we accrued cost for final modifications to all 32 pumps currently in process for both China and domestic reactors.
Total cost for AP1000 were $11 million in the second quarter.
We expect that the significant expenditures related to design modifications are now behind us.
Overall segment operating margin was down for the quarter accordingly.
However we expect profitability in both the new build and after market nuclear businesses to significantly improve in the second half of 2015.
In summary overall Curtiss-Wright operating income declined 9% in the second quarter which led to a 70 basis point decline in margin to 12%.
On a year-to-date basis operating income increased 4% compared to the prior year period while operating margin increased 70 basis points to 12.7% further indicating the resilience of our business model and the benefits of our diversified industrial strategy.
Moving on to our financial outlook beginning with our end market sales I will start with the defense markets.
Now that we are halfway through 2015 the adjustments shown on the slide reflects better clarity regarding the specific programs on which our COTS embedded computing products are used.
In the back half of 2015 we now expect a greater percentage will be applicable to aerospace rather than ground defense and as a result we made a few modifications to each of those end markets.
Overall defense market guidance remains unchanged and is expected to grow between 2% and 4%.
Moving on to the commercial markets like many other companies we are experiencing the direct and the indirect impact of lower energy prices particularly in some of our industrial businesses.
While our overall exposure to oil and gas was significantly reduced as a result of our divestiture activity our remaining exposure to international large projects continues to dampen our results as these projects continue to move to the right.
During the first half of 2015 decline in project sales outweighed higher MRO sales.
However we expect this trend to reverse in the back half of the year.
Reduced energy prices have not only affected our industrial valves products sold to oil and gas and petrochemical customers also some of our on and off highway vehicle products including those for hybrid and agriculture vehicles.
Adding to this mix is general economic uncertainty and somewhat slower than anticipated global GDP rates.
As a result we felt it prudent to reduce our full year general industrial end market guidance from 5% to 9% down to 0% to 4%.
On a positive note there are areas within our general industrial end market that continued to look solid for Curtiss-Wright including increasing demand for our industrial vehicle products and services for the North American trucking and construction industries.
And our MRO valves that are sold to global oil and gas and chemical customers.
These industries continue to forecast solid growth in the second half of 2015.
To sum up and as a result of the aforementioned tweaks to our end markets we now expect overall Curtiss-Wright 2015 sales growth of 1% to 3%.
Next we are happy to share a new slide with you the 2015 end market sales waterfall [ph].
Beginning with total sales you can follow the split between commercial and defense markets in the blue box which then filter down or layer to the six major end markets where we provide revenue guidance in the grey box.
We felt this slide would help to provide a clear picture of our 2015 end market breakdown most notably within the power generation and general industrial markets.
In power generation approximately two thirds of our projected 2015 revenues are based on aftermarket sales to existing operating reactors.
Nearly 20% is for new build which relates to revenues on the AP1000 program as well as other new build opportunities globally.
Finally the non-nuclear piece relates to surface treatment services on industrial gas turbines as well as analytical testing for the possible power generation industry.
In general industrial the valves and vehicle businesses each represent approximately one third of our total general industrial sales.
Industrial valves are split two thirds to the oil and gas and one third to the chemical and petrochemical industries.
Oil and gas is further broken down as 75% MRO sales and 25% large projects.
Industrial vehicle product sales are primarily due on highway commercial vehicles and to a lesser extent off highway agricultural and construction as well as medical mobility markets.
The surface treatment services include laser and shot peening analytical services and codings for automotive construction medical and various industrial markets.
And the final category is for industrial sensors and industrial electric actuation equipment.
Overall we are pleased with our current market diversification and we hope this additional level of visibility will aid in your understanding of our end markets.
Continuing with our financial outlook by segment the bulk of the end market guidance changes are in the general industrial market.
We revised our expectations within the commercial industrial segment accordingly.
We have trended our current segment sales growth rate from 3% to 5% down to 1% to 2% to reflect the changes noted earlier.
We also reduce the operating income associated with the lower sales however we bumped up margin slightly to a new range of 14.9% to 15% as we are mitigating cost to offset some of the slowdown in our industrial markets.
In the defense segment we continue to experience strong international demand for our turret drive stabilization systems and there also appears to be renewed interest in funding to maintain and upgrade existing domestic ground defense platforms from which we would benefit.
However at this time we are maintaining our current sales and profitability expectations for the segment.
Sales in the power segment will primarily be influenced by the AP1000 program and our expectations for nearly flat sales growth remains unchanged at this time.
Now that we’ve incurred the cost related to the AP1000 program in the first half of the year we expect this segment to benefit from increased production and the new China order in the second half.
Overall we continue to expect the strong second half of the year with our operating results following a similar trajectory as we have done historically.
We remain on track to achieve 7% to 10% growth in total operating income and 70 to 80 basis points in operating margin expansion to a range of 13.3% to 13.4%.
Moving on we have updated some of our non-operational guidance expectations as indicated due to better than expected first half results for interest expense and effective tax rate.
These adjustments help offset the reduction in segment operating income guidance noted earlier.
And as Dave noted our 2015 guidance for diluted earnings per share remains at a range of $3.80 to $3.90 which represents double-digit EPS growth over 2014.
Next to our cash flow as a reminder and as noted on our previous conference call we made a $145 million pension contribution that significantly impacted our first quarter reported cash flow results.
We anticipate that this action will significantly lower our pension expense and eliminate the need for further cash contributions over the next five years.
Our second quarter adjusted free cash flow was $28 million lower than the prior year due primarily to lower deferred revenues as the prior year included significant advance payments related to naval defense orders.
And despite the slower first half performance we are reiterating our free cash flow position for full year 2015 as we continue to expect an adjusted free cash flow level similar to our very strong 2014 results.
Now I’d like to turn the call back over to Dave to provide an update on our operating margin improvement initiatives and future outlook.
Dave? Thank you Glenn.
I’d like to spend a few minutes on the drivers of further operating margin expansion and our goal to reach and maintain our per quartile performance versus our peer group.
We’ve come a long way in the past 18 months as we appreciate Curtiss-Wright through significant organizational realignment and raise the bar by setting new and transparent financial targets.
We also completed several divestitures of non-core and underperforming assets which most recently included a sale of our downstream oil and gas business in the second quarter and our engineered packaging business early in the third quarter.
Outside of a few small surface treatment facilities our pruning actions have essentially been completed and are fully reflected in our results and current guidance.
We are pleased to complete the sale of these businesses which now allows the management team to increase their focus on the future.
As we have stated we are aiming to reach and then maintain our position in the upper quartile of our peer group with the ultimate goal of being at or near the top.
We are focused on improving margins and our return on invested capital by driving synergies and producing significant cost savings and I am very confident that we will reach our goals.
At the halfway mark we are right on track with our operating margin expansion plans.
Similar to last year we will provide an update on all of our initiatives on our February call when we have 2015 actuals [ph] and our guidance for 2016.
Regarding an update to our long-term operating margin guidance we are not prepared to provide any target at this time.
As the AP1000 program is quite significant to our future growth rates we need to finalize the pending China order before fully resetting long-term expectations for margin growth.
So for the time-being we remain committed to meeting and exceeding the 14.2% upper quartile or 75th percentile target.
Next I would like to provide an update on the AP1000 program.
Overall we continue to make progress in the production of our first of a kind reactor coolant pump or RCP supporting the AP1000 nuclear program.
We have successfully completed the engineering and endurance testing phase and are now working with our customer and the Chinese as we evaluate the results of those tests.
We expect to begin deliveries of our RCPs to China in the latter half of the third quarter.
Regarding our next AP1000 order we anticipate contract negotiations to resume once we begin shipping pumps and remain hopeful for the order by the end of the third quarter.
Longer-term the demand from China remains strong based on the anticipatory use of nuclear power as part of its future energy mix and subsequent expansion of its nuclear reactor footprint.
Curtiss-Wright is expected to play a key long-term role in support of this industry expansion.
Next to capital allocation Curtiss-Wright remains committed to keeping a fair balance between return of capital to shareholders operational requirements and strategic acquisitions.
We remain committed to repurchasing at least $200 million in stock this year through steady repurchases under 10b5-1 plan as we continue to reward our shareholders.
In the second quarter we repurchased $50 million of stock bringing the total through yesterday's trading to more than $100 million thus far in 2015.
Earlier in the month we announced the expansion of our share repurchase program by $100 million up to the $300 million that was authorized by our Board of Directors last September.
So for this year you can expect us to repurchase the remaining $100 million under the $200 million 10b5-1 plan as well as the potential for additional opportunistic purchases up to another $100 million based on the recent expansion and market conditions.
While we have announced only one acquisition year-to-date we have a solid pipeline of candidates who we are pursuing.
Keep in mind that we have raised the bar for the types of businesses we are looking to acquire focusing for now on smaller companies that can contribute to our long-term profitability expectations so they cannot be dilutive to overall CW.
Further down the road we would expect to also explore some potentially larger deals to bolster our top line growth projections.
As a reminder our use of our capital for operational needs includes ongoing CAPEX requirements as well as the $145 million pension payment made this year.
In addition we will continue to invest in our business to drive long-term organic growth.
We are confident that the progress we are making to more efficiently manage working capital and improved cash flow will benefit our shareholders over the long run.
In summary we are looking forward to a strong second half and continue to expect another solid year in 2015.
We are particularly pleased with the strength we are experiencing in our defense markets.
We expect that at least 70 basis points in operating margin expansion and double-digit EPS growth in 2015 led by our operating margin improvement initiatives supporting the One Curtiss-Wright vision.
Finally our continued focus on margin expansion and free cash flow generation will drive Curtiss-Wright to upper quartile performance versus our peers for all of our financial metrics and in turn it is expected to drive strong shareholder returns for years to come.
At this time I would like to open up today's conference call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from the line of Kristine Liwag with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Hi Kristine.
With your updated sales outlook for general industrial of 0% to 4% what are you assuming for sales growth in the oil and gas MRO versus large projects? We don’t have that right at our finger tips here Kristine at this point at this time.
Sure and then for the M&amp;A pieces that you mentioned with the focus on smaller companies in the near-term and then maybe larger ones later on can you provide any sort of color on capabilities that you want to add or perhaps end markets that you want to enter? Yes that’s a great question something that we look at from a strategic standpoint very often.
As I indicated we have a pretty strong pipeline filled with opportunities and they range from -- there are some pretty large ones to the smaller ones and the strategic bolt-ons that I have been talking about for the last two years now are some $100 million that has been sort of the upper limit that we wanted to look at on a company by company basis and the areas in which we have a lot of interest are in particular defense not shying away from that whatsoever.
There is some great plays that compliment what we want to move forward within a strategic standpoint.
In particular the C4ISR area has been of interest to us and continues.
Some of the UAV markets were very well grounded in the Global Hawk and others and with what we have we are able to acquire other companies that might have let’s say bolt-on technologies that one plus one would equal three.
So those tend to be in the smaller range.
Now as we look in other areas of the business I still like the industrial side.
We’ve continued to look at other areas of the vehicle that owns the tab as it were.
That’s sort of a little watch word that we use internally from a strategic perspective saying whatever we can help the end users or our customer in terms of their efficiency and in terms of buying and or operating a big rig for example.
If we can provide a whole host of electronics and/or components that go into that gap instead of them our customer having to go out and source those independently and we would be on cutting edge from a technological perspective then we feel that is a real niche filler that our customers are really looking for.
So I look for that industrial side as being something of interest.
Those two are the primary areas I have also made clear that we do like and continue to like the nuclear aftermarket.
It’s steady Eddie-type business.
Granted it’s a little bit down right now and that’s going to change at some point in time and we have a good host of products that we feel the need when those become a revitalized part of the market.
And so in those three areas that’s the areas we have interest in.
Now relative to bigger transactions as I indicated on my narrative in the front half here it’s really an area of interest to us to get to the point that we said we would get to and that was achieving upper quartile and against our peer type margins op margins and I said two years ago once we did that then we will have earned the right to grow this company with different mindset in terms of the margin expectations of those that are acquired.
And that’s exactly where we plan to hit.
At some point we will look for other opportunities that we are not going to overpay if we can help it and we are certainly going to -- we have a different measure by which we look at acquisitions now.
They have to meet a certain bench and so those things all add up into our grand strategy to continue to grow this company.
Great and a final question for me as you think about power and as you near delivery of the AP1000 how are you thinking about the cadence of long-term growth in that segment and is there a normalized margin that you are looking at to target? Yes I mean we said as soon as we get the order Kristine because we are still negotiating right now so I mean –- I could least tell you what we put in our guidance this year which was 13 million in sales and 3 million in operating profit as our estimates this year as a gauge.
But until we get the order we are not going to be able to.
When we get the order we will be able to share all of that with you but we can’t do that right now since we are currently in negotiations.
Great thank you very much.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Nice margins in the quarter.
Maybe just to stay on that last line of questioning real quick there is a lot of positive commentary come out of China some of the big power utilities there.
But the numbers you just gave Glenn point to a 23% operating margin on what you have baked in for AP1000.
I know you have said the first pumps between kind of the blue light special pricing incurring all the learning curves and costs I mean is that a realistic margin that we should be thinking about 23% or is there -- is something in this initial kind of this first line of revenues you have put in for this year is there something in there that is higher margin that is not sustainable? No I think it is -- this is an estimate we -- our group down there come up with earlier in the year it was in our guidance.
So I would say at this point I can't say anything other than their best estimate of how the contract is going to end up.
But again we are in negotiations so we won't be able to give you that actual projection until we finalize the order.
Okay and you guys still feel comfortable I mean it is still on the guidance this year it sounds like you could have this even though we are assuming negotiations but you guys still feel comfortable that this can be tied up here in the quarter? Yes as I indicated Mike the order and I have said on the last call as well that we had anticipated that we would get through the E&amp;E testing and we did at the end of last quarter and that was excellent.
We were very happy.
We improved out the design modifications that we had made at that point.
The thresh runner bearing and so forth with the -- whole purpose was to go through and to really prove that we got a 60 year live pump.
And so everybody is happy that we did accomplish that and now as a result we are doing some tweaks and we anticipate that we are going to be shipping hardware in the very near term to China.
And that was always the premise with our customer both domestic and China that once we started shipping the product that met the requirement which requirement was efficiently passing the E&amp;E testing then we would be starting resuming negotiations.
So we are -- you have heard me say before and we are cautiously optimistic I remain so and third quarter is still what we are looking at to pickup an order as I indicated.
We are going to be shipping hardware pretty soon.
Got it just on the margins in general I mean you are driving margin expansion with substantial top line headwinds can you give us a sense as to what specifically is driving that improvement.
I mean is it facility consolidation is it headcount.
I mean can you give us a sense as to how you are driving this improvement what aspect of that operating model improvement is really the contributor here maybe in this current quarter? Yes I am going to give you the bigger answer not current quarter related as much as more specific.
I love the question.
I really honestly do is one that thrills me every time I get the question when I am one on one or out with you folks and that is to be able to speak about our continuous improvement initiatives and our margin expansion initiatives that we put in place.
They don’t stop and back in December of 2013 we came out with our what we call it our top ten and it was like a 100 something initiatives.
But that is spread over various different business units that have different drivers.
And we continue to evolve that and to improve it.
We haven’t gone backwards which is a great part of it.
What we have created is something that we coined the CW way and it is much akin to what we and industry know as the Danaher way or the Toyota production type model.
We got the CW way that we utilize internally like you said.
It is an interactive process by which we go through and identify the areas that we can absolutely focus on and transform the businesses that are associated with whatever it is that we are focused on.
I will just give you the main highlights of those on a lean side and lean is -- kind of lean does talk about efficiency improvements and some headcount modifications.
You can't get a lean without some of that but what we do like to do is maintain as much as possible on the headcount side so that we can produce more and accomplish and accommodate the growth that we need to.
And in some cases its labor arbitrage shifting but lean is all about efficiency improvements including equipment as well.
And to give you one example there is that we have so far this year through half one we’ve identified and trained what we call 24 champions of the CW way and we will have another 24 by the end of the year.
So 48 people that are absolutely focused upon our business model CW way of producing at the highest levels of efficiency that we can possibly accommodate.
And that’s cutting edge or leading edge type lean.
Low cost economies we’ve got Mexico couple of facilities China we’ve got three Pune India we have a facility.
We have so far had roughly reported at about almost 0.5 million hours in terms of offload into the foreign economies for labor arbitrage by the beginning of 2017 or the by the end of 2016 we will be at million hours and that’s considerable considering where we started from.
That contributes a very large amount to margin improvement.
And supply chain I sat in on a spend meeting we call it the other day it was held here in Charlotte and this one was where we brought in our raw material suppliers on either direct or distributor basis.
Fill the room full of them and basically we are hoping to come out and say look here’s where we are at here is what we are going to buy and this is all in line with what I’ve been telling for a while and that is we spend a billion plus dollars and we are going to take 3% of that up.
Well 3% you take it by one bite at a time.
This was just a classic example of taking a one bite having all suppliers in the room just being straight up here is where we are at.
Some of you will survive.
Some of you will not we need your best and finals and here is how we got there as a team.
And that way we are able to put in place long-term contracts and as the old ones roll off like I’ve been talking about for the last year and a half these new ones are rolling on with good margin pickups in our spend areas.
That certainly contributes.
And then lastly the consolidation side you mentioned consolidation and we are all about change.
If you don’t change you are not staying ahead of the pack and we are changing as a company.
We continue to do so.
We have had we launched 13 projects in this year at the beginning of this year that were consolidation projects and that’s routine for us.
Now 13 was a pretty good size number for us because we had done several last year but 13 this year and we are not going to complete all 13 in this year because they will roll into next year a little bit.
But those are the kinds of activities where obviously you pickup from the brick and mortar you consolidate you don’t have a brick and mortar cost and we look at when the lease expires then look at consolidations at that time.
And then also headcount the labor side you got a low cost economy.
So these are absolutely real intangible pieces of margin expansion that I am happy to go through on one on ones or when I get to conferences in more detail but suffice is to say they are a part of us achieving at and beyond our currently stated targets.
So I am just really happy to be able to report that we are making solid progress in that regard.
That’s extremely helpful.
Thank you very much guys I’ll jump back in the queue.
Thanks Mike.
Thanks good morning.
Just a quick question first on the working capital it looks like working capital as a percent of sales is actually expanding a little bit and Glenn as you calculated on your metric what does it look like is the past only get to 30 by year end looks like you got to 30 by yearend you’d actually be well in advance of the guidance? Yes I mean when we include deferred revenues which is what we do besides primary working capital.
We are at 26.5% in June that’s 5.5% from the prior year end.
Our forecast now as you get down to 23% in 2015.
However we’ve past all of our business units to achieve a 10% reduction beyond that that is what we are striving for if we were to do that and of course we won't go all the way if we were to accomplish that then we get to stand on the 21% versus our goal of the upper quartile of 20.
So we clearly are making some -- we are expecting to make some pretty significant progress in the second half of this year.
Okay ceiling adjustment you are doing is the deferred revenue? Yes that's it.
Okay and then the other one is really on the power segment particularly the second half margin run rate implied of 14% or so.
How much should we interpret that as the go forward run rate and then secondarily I think we all understand the absence of AP1000 the 3 million OI from the China shipments are kind of what you are counting on but is there also a pickup in aftermarket in the nuclear markets and is that in your backlog or is that more of a risk than an opportunity? No the second half you hit a couple.
Obviously it is influenced by the new order which is at least we are estimating it to be fairly profitable for us and a positive impact on the margin for us.
We are expecting domestic production and the aftermarket business to pickup in the second half of the year.
The aftermarket business hedged pretty good order intake in the first -- primarily in the first quarter but also in second quarter.
So those are both coming out of backlog.
So the combination of that but I think the new order had a fairly heavy influence on that margin in the second half of the year.
And the 14% how much to think about that as the run rate for that business into 2016? Again we can’t really go into this that we are back to the conundrum of one we don’t have 2016 projected yet and two until we really get the order that is still an estimate of what they think is going to happen this year.
But we will remain to see what actually got once we get the contract.
And hopefully the next quarter we will be able to solve all this.
I know you guys really need this to look to the future.
We are looking forward to telling you as you are -- Sounds good that's all I got thanks.
Thanks Miles.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
Good morning.
Back on power one more time so you absorbed your $11 million in cost if I look at that that still only gets you 10% or so margin was there anything else one time like restructuring or anything else in the quarter? Just trying to think no I don’t think so.
Okay.
It is hopping out this way the 7 million was exciting enough.
Yes that is true.
And then can you provide a little bit more in terms of why ground defense went down and then defense aerospace went up what actually shifted in terms of the year? Yes I will say what it is.
Here is what this is in our cost embedded computing business and there are 100s of programs and customer will come in order of 100 more.
Since they are costs by nature [indiscernible] they can be used in a variety of programs.
We don’t necessarily always have visibility on where those boards are being used and as we get going on in the year that business unit got better clarity and that is really the reflex between the two.
Okay and then with the lower organic growth for this year just given what is happening some of the markets how do you feel about that long-term 3% or 4% kind of growth rate out to 18 do you still reach that or do we just start on the lower base and then grow from here? Sam I mean that is the $64 000 question which complete industry wants to know.
We feel we continue to demonstrate that we outpace our markets and our peer groups in the marketplace.
And we think we do buy measure and we see it across the Board opportunities now you take the vehicles on highway.
They are doing great domestically.
They should come back and pickup internationally because then China for example they are down a little bit and worldwide it is down.
I am not sure when that is coming back up again but we are well positioned once it does.
We have new products that we are releasing.
Those new products will capture market share that is not necessarily depended upon let's say a rising tide of a particular industry.
It is about technology insertion.
Oil and gas prices don’t help us a whole lot in terms of hybrid right now and hybrid vehicles they are not buying as many as they were 18 months ago 12 months ago.
That has done a little bit to us but I am here to tell you that I think that what goes around comes around.
We are not going to see these oil prices forever at this level.
It will switch and so is that going to happen before 18 well I don’t know.
But when it does things like that the hybrid which was a big headwind to us in terms of contributing to the lack of growth.
We think that will come back and we are very well positioned with some new technological inserts from a hybrid perspective as well as the old product that we currently have.
So and I think generally we still feel optimistic.
We go through these from a ground up with our individual business units each month and we talk about the possibilities what we can do and in a while it’s not sure part guaranteed we are not holding anybody's head under the water and say we have to get there.
We want to do the very best we can on a realistic basis.
And this is what we’re projecting.
So I guess Sam the short answer is we anticipate that we are going to continue to make this drive unless and until we see some significant changes.
Besides the AP1000 which is going to ramp up in this if and when we get the order we also have the CV and AV aircraft carrier in this next couple year process that’s going to ramp up and the joint strike fighter build rates we expect to ramp up as well as new commercial aerospace platform.
I mean there is a number of different things that we see on the horizon that would give us some comfort for the long term range.
Okay and does any of that end market weakness help you in terms of the M&amp;A in the pipeline have you seen any change in the multiples that either people are asking and what you think it takes to close the transactions.
Prices in M&amp;A are still pretty high but like I said we have a different look at a different type of company.
So the benchmark company today was considerably different than the benchmark company of old.
And return of invested capital 10% by year three and year five is 12.
So we are looking at some higher metrics.
They are going to cost more to buy those kinds of companies.
There even might be some potential little pickups but we don’t really like to buy in a down market and hope for the best.
I am looking for technologies that standout and can compliment and contribute strongly to what we’ve got rather than buying something and riding out the storm.
Now if there was just a super deal out there that was faltering because of market only and we had something to add sure we would take a look at something like that but not sure that we would execute on it and just take it on a case by case basis.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Sam.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I thought it was a nice quarter and outlook given the industrial environment and perhaps we could focus there for a second.
On the industrial valve side it sounds like volumes are really pushing out to the right but could you talk about whether you are seeing any pricing impact and whether there is any difference between the project and the MRO business there? Well I will say that just so we can hone in on what we are doing the industrial valves is about a third of the general industrial market around $200 million.
Two thirds of that is oil and gas and that’s with 75% MRO and 25% project.
So project is fairly small but today we have numbers we expect and we did -- so they are moving to the right.
The MRO we expect the way this – we said that we split the projects kind of looking kind of flat throughout the year and they are actually higher than the MRO.
Recently we expect the big second half in the MRO that will be higher to overshadow the project business and for the year end up being up versus the project.
So projects are those where the pricing is better on the MRO for sure project generally.
Okay and it does.
You are not really seeing it on the MRO side the pricing pressure as much? No.
Okay great and then on the commercial vehicle side I think one of the growth drivers has been China and just given some of the headlines and concerns about China is that still expected or is that part of the lower outlook in industrial generally? Any color there would be helpful.
Ryan like I said a couple of facilities in China -– manufacture and some for indigenous sales some for the labor arbitrage side of the low cost economy of which by the way I wanted to mention that MRO valves benefits from.
So when we do have some times pricing pressure or we do have a really nice face there in our low cost economy to withstand some of that pressure and maintain margins that does not increase.
So we feel pretty good about that but in terms of the outlook we watched that with great interest and let’s say it’s not a huge piece of the growth at this point or a huge piece of the business from the overall industrial at this point.
Someday I hope that it is and because it is not we are not seeing the tremendous drop off.
We were hoping for a more of a robust marketplace back in 2014 when we started to see the regulatory side become statutory with regards to some of their emissions control need and then with 2015 we expected to roll out a little more quickly that hasn’t happened as much as we had hoped because of obviously that’s been happening over there.
The need is still great they know it you can help us see it.
It is in front of your face when you breathe and so that’s not going to stop.
We will see some moderate growth there but it is going to take some time.
The international vehicles as we discussed overseas in particular in China has just taken off more slowly of recent than we had wanted.
And that’s in the tank for now for a while anyway but I don’t see the need going away by any stretch if anything it has pick up.
So I do think that that’s going to come back for some time.
Okay understandable.
Thanks guys appreciate it.
Thanks Ryan.
Thank you good morning everybody.
Hey good morning Steve.
Just question on AP1000 there has been some news with some of the domestic installations are seeing some cost over runs that I guess a lot of people expected might not occur with the module reactor.
Are you getting any push back or is that more on the are you aware is that more on the construction side? Yes I was reading some of those same articles of recent and it looks more on the construction side and some of the late I mean some of the projects are late however and over runs I read about those as well but what I also read was that they are making progress.
I think that there are only two that are active today but they are actually making progress and I took that as a positive out of the article in our position and it is that we are holding our own.
So I mean I think we are doing pretty good but yes I’ve seen some of those same articles and I haven’t got any more color on it then that.
Okay that’s helpful though.
And then in terms of the stock buyback as opposed to acquisitions is that just that you are still finishing the pruning before you start to add or was it a matter of valuation as opposed to the price of stock being a better investment at the time.
We were counting our money for a while there and after the divestitures and so then we did go in as originally for a $300 million buyback authorization and now as you know we went out with the 200 on a peanut butter spread.
And then now as we indicated with the 100 million that we will do that on an opportunistic basis and it wasn’t in lieu of acquisitions but it was if we have had acquisitions that we have been talking about we want this thing to be balanced.
And if we had had acquisitions this year more of them in the first half and maybe we wouldn’t have done that actually a 100.
But it is prudent we believe in this company we believe in the stock and we believe that we are going to grow this business then and our shareholders have been able to reap the rewards of same.
And so that’s why we initiated the second part of the 300 and that being the 100 million.
But I still remain bullish on acquisitions be the right ones and it’s not valuations that has scared us off frankly.
We did bid on a couple of acquisitions that -- and you just reach a point where you say hey look in an auction the last guy standing is really marked the winner although they won.
But we been through these cases we want to be the last people standing and the technologies were not worth enough to us to do that.
And we are going to stay that line stay that course.
We do believe that there are some out there that match our intent strategically and we can really do something with.
And I will tell you with the CW way with what we have got going from our process improvement lean so forth we got a real machine going here that once I can acquire businesses they compliment what we have.
We can hold them into fold.
We can consolidate rationalize whatever we have to do and come out with what the one plus one equals three and that is what we are looking for.
And I am tremendously excited about being able to do that on the right ones.
Got it.
It is good to stick to the plan then.
I appreciate your conviction on the stock.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you Michelle and thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking to you again during our third quarter 2015 earnings call.
Have a great day.
Bye.
Bye-bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Curtiss-Wright Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Jim Ryan Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Camra and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Curtiss-Wright's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our call today is being webcast and the press release as well as a copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties and we detail those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company’s website.
Finally our discussions today of current and future results except for cash flow are on a continuing operations basis which excludes all previously announced divestitures.
In addition any references to organic growth exclude the effects of foreign currency translation acquisitions and divestitures unless otherwise noted.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave to get things started.
Dave.
Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone.
For our agenda today I’ll begin with a brief update on recent events followed by Glenn who will provide a more thorough revenue of our third quarter financial performance along with updates to our 2015 guidance.
Then I’ll return to provide some additional commentary on our capital allocation strategy and updates on the AP1000 RCP and margin expansion programs before we wrap-up and move to Q&amp;A.
Overall we experienced a challenging quarter as has been the case throughout 2015.
Lower oil prices and weaker economic conditions continue to disrupt several of our industrial businesses.
As you saw we lowered our sales guidance for the year to reflect the ongoing weakness that these particular businesses are experiencing.
Despite market conditions we are maintaining our EPS guidance for the year at $3.80 to $3.90.
We are also increasing our operating margin guidance range up to 13.5% to 13.6% as we continue to execute on the One Curtiss-Wright strategy that we embarked upon in 2013.
So as you can see although faced with some external headwinds our team remains focused on controlling cost and driving strong margin expansion.
Our overall results continue to reflect the solid execution of our One Curtiss-Wright initiative as those actions continue to bear fruit.
We remain on track for a great finish to 2015 with 90 to 100 basis point margin improvement and double digit EPS growth.
In addition we repurchased $88 million worth of stock in the third quarter ramping year-to-date share repurchases through September 30 to $185 million.
This activity reflects our continued commitment to steady share repurchases which also included some opportunistic buying.
Finally we hope that you would have seen in the press release issued last night that fully qualifies our AP1000 Reactor Coolant Pump.
This is an exciting step for Curtiss-Wright and I’ll come back to address this further a bit later in the call.
Now I’d like to turn the call over to Glenn to provide a more thorough revenue of our quarterly performance.
Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
I’ll begin this morning by adding some additional perspective to our third quarter EPS results.
Our diluted earnings per share of $0.80 includes a one-time pension settlement charge of approximately $7 million or $0.10 a share related to our former Chairman who retired earlier this year following a 37 year career at Curtiss-Wright.
Although this charge has been in our full year guidance we have not previously indicated when it would occur.
As a result you may need to update your quarterly projections accordingly to reflect this charge in the third quarter.
The quarter was also affected by the timing of the receipt of the next China AP1000 order.
Although we originally expected to receive the order in the third quarter this did not occur and has now shifted to the fourth quarter.
This result represents a shift of about $0.05 of EPS between quarters.
Hence our pro-forma diluted EPS for the third quarter is $0.95.
Finally our third quarter results also reflect the ongoing weakness in our industrial end market which significantly impacted our commercial industrial segment sales and profitability for the quarter.
Although some of this short fall is due to timing that we expect to recovery in the fourth quarter we have reduced the full year sales and operating income guidance for this segment.
Partially offsetting this reduction is an increase to our full year operating income and margin guidance in the Defense segment.
In addition we have tweaked some non-operational projections which enables us to maintain our full year EPS guidance of $3.80 to $3.90.
Turning to our third quarter sales by end market higher overall sales in our Defense markets were more than offset by a decline in overall sales in our commercial markets.
In the Defense market sales increased 3% overall and 5% organically which excludes FX and acquisitions.
This improvement was primarily due to higher revenues in aerospace defense which increased 16% over the prior year.
We experienced higher sales of ISR related embedded computing products in particular on the F-16 and joint Strike Fighter programs as well as a slight up-tick in helicopter sales led by the Seahawk program.
In Naval defense sales increased 2% compared to the prior year primarily due to higher sales on the Block 4 build of Virginia-class submarines.
Total aircraft carrier revenues were essentially flat for the period as higher production of CVN-79 program was offset by the winding down on the CVN-78 program.
Meanwhile ground defense sales decreased 22% due to lower revenue on the Abrams Bradley and various ground communication programs.
That decline in sales more than offset continued solid demand for our turret drive stabilization systems.
In the commercial market sales decreased 11% overall and 9% organically.
In commercial aerospace sales declined 12% primarily driven by lower demand for avionics and flight test equipment for helicopters and regional jets.
In addition we experienced lower shot-peening sales to Airbus and our sales to Boeing remained essentially flat year-over-year as expected as most production levels were unchanged in 2014.
In power generation sales decrease primarily driven by reduced demand in the nuclear aftermarket business based on ongoing differed maintenance spending by domestic plant operators.
AP1000 program revenues were essentially flat in the quarter compared to last year.
And finally general and industrial sales declined 9% overall and 5% organically as the strong dollar negatively impacted sales in this market by approximately $6 million.
Our performance in this end market continues to be influenced by the low oil price environment as well as weaker economic conditions in general.
In industrial valves we continue to experience weaker project sales in the oil and gas and petrochemical markets.
Across the industry ongoing reductions in capital expenditures have led to larger than expected declines in projects related demand and as a result these projects have shifted to the right.
And finally in industrial vehicles we experienced lower sales of products for off highway vehicles primarily based on the continued weakness in the global agricultural market.
Moving on I will discuss the key drivers of our third quarter operating income and margin performance.
In the commercial industrial segment lower sales led to an operating income decline of 21% while operating margin decreased 250 basis points to 13.8%.
These reductions were driven by a combination of lower sales of industrial valves and surface treatment services and the associated under absorption of overhead costs.
Partially offsetting these declines were higher profitability in industrial vehicles despite lower sales due to ongoing operational and margin improvement initiatives.
In the Defense segment operating income was up 13% and operating margin was up 400 basis points to 21.7%.
Segment operating income included a $3 million favorable impact on FX.
Although not shown on the chart excluding the FX impact organic operating income was essentially flat on a 5% decrease in organic sales resulting in an organic operating margin improvement of 80 basis points to 18.5%.
This performance was driven by continued solid growth in our embedded computing business and ongoing operational margin improvement initiatives.
Next in the power segment operating income was up 22% and operating margin was up 230 basis points to 11.7%.
As expected our results reflect improvement in operating income and margins that as we moved beyond the significant expenditures related to testing and design modification for our AP1000 Reactor Coolant Pumps.
We also generated higher profitability in our nuclear after-market business despite lower sales volumes due to ongoing margin improvement initiatives.
In summary overall Curtiss-Wright operating income declined 14% in the third quarter which led to 120 basis point decline in margin to 12.1%.
However our results were significantly impacted by the aforementioned pension charge.
Excluding the impact of this charge third quarter operating income declined only 4% while operating margin increased 20% basis points to 13.5%.
And finally it is worth noting that on a year-to-date basis total operating margin increased 10 basis points to 12.5% further illustrating the resilience of our business model and the benefits of our diversified end market strategy despite the continuing challenges facing our industrial businesses.
Moving on to our financial outlook beginning with our end market sales; I’ll start with the Defense markets.
Following a strong third quarter in the aerospace defense market current full year guidance growth rates would imply expectations below our sales in this market in the fourth quarter.
This is primarily due to timing of product on various helicopter and ISR programs as defense sales tends to be lumpy quarter-to-quarter.
Our full year guidance in the aerospace defense market remains unchanged as we continue to expect solid growth of 2% to 6% over 2014.
Growth rates for our ground and naval defense markets also remain unchanged.
As a result overall defense market guidance remains unchanged and is expected to growth between 2% and 4%.
Moving on to the commercial markets I’ll start in the general industry market.
As you had seen by our year-to-date results we have experienced steady headwinds in our industrial businesses particularly within the energy markets.
So as third quarter sales deteriorated more than expected we have lowered our full year general industrial end market guidance to be down 4% to 8%.
Elsewhere within commercial aerospace and as noted earlier our third quarter results reflected lower revenues related to avionics flight test equipment.
As a result we reduced the full year expectations for this end market and now expect sales to decline between 2% and 6% in 2015.
These reductions to our commercial aerospace and general industrial sales have lowered overall commercial market guidance to be down 3% to 5%.
To sum up and as a result of the aforementioned adjustments to our commercial end markets we now expect overall Curtiss-Wright 2015 sales growth to be flat to down 2%.
In the appendix you will find the updated 2015 end market sales waterfall.
Continuing with our financial outlook by segment we have revised our expectations within the commercial industrial segment to reflect the end market sales guidance changes in the general industrial market discussed previously.
As a result we have trimmed our segment sales growth expectations to be down 1% to 3%.
We also reduced the operating income associated with the lower sales.
However due to our cost mitigation actions we are holding the operating margin guidance range at 14.9% to 15%.
In the defense segment we are lowering our sales outlook due to the expected weakness in avionics and flight test equipment as noted earlier and now anticipate full year segment sales to be nearly flat with 2014.
Turning to our operating income guidance based on the strong year-to-date performance and the benefit of FX along with the continued solid demand for our turret drive stabilization systems we have increased our profitability expectations for this segment and now expect operating margins to expand another 110 basis points to range from 19.1% to 19.2% which would reflect a 220 to 230 basis point margin improvement over 2014.
And finally in the power segment we are maintaining our current sales and profitability expectations which include our assumption that the new channel order will be received in the fourth quarter.
Overall we remain focused on aggressively controlling costs given the current macro environment and as a result of the solid profitability improvement in the defense segment we are increasing our overall Curtiss-Wright operating margin guidance to reflect 90 to 100 basis points in operating margin expansion in 2015.
Moving on we have updated some of our non-operational guidance expectations as indicated due to better than expected year-to-date results for interest expense and the effective tax rate.
We’ve also reduced full year diluted shares outstanding to 47.6 million shares based on current share repurchase expectations.
These adjustments help to offset the reduction in overall segment operating income guidance noted earlier.
And as a result our 2015 guidance for diluted earnings per share remains at a range of $3.80 to $3.90 which represents double digit EPS growth over 2014.
Next to our cash flow our third quarter free cash flow was $98 million nearly double the prior year’s result due primarily to improve collections as well as the receipt of the large income tax refund.
We are reiterating our free cash flow position for the full year 2015 as we continue to expect an adjusted free cash flow level similar to our very strong 2014 results which reflects the previously announced $145 million pension contribution.
Now I’d like to turn the call back over to Dave to provide the summary and some closing comments.
Dave.
Thanks Glenn.
Curtiss-Wright remains committed to maintaining a balanced capital allocation strategy between operational requirements returning capital to our shareholders and strategic acquisitions.
As a reminder our 2015 use of capital for operational needs includes ongoing CapEx requirements as well as the $145 million pension payment made early this year.
In addition we are steadily working through the $300 million share repurchase program that was authorized by our Board of Directors last year.
For reference we indicated that the initial $200 million will be executed via a 10b5-1 along with an additional $100 million available for opportunistic share repurchases.
In the third quarter we repurchased $88 million in stock buying $50 million in steady repurchases via the 10b5-1 plan and another $38 million opportunistically.
Given the current share price we believe that our stock buyback program is the best use of our free cash flow at this time.
Through yesterday’s trading we have purchased more than $200 million in shares thus far in 2015.
Looking ahead we expect to complete the balance of our $300 million share repurchase program in the fourth quarter.
Regarding acquisitions we continue to have a solid pipeline of candidates.
It’s about strategic fit with our current lines of business and the growth that they can bring to Curtiss-Wright in the future.
We remain focused on acquiring businesses and/or product lines that immediately contribute to our long term profitability expectations and will not be diluted to our long term financial metrics.
As you likely noted our year-to-date acquisition activity has been lighter than usual.
As a result we’ve increased our focus on share repurchases and the weighting has certainly shifted to return of capital in 2015.
I’ll remind you that while our capital allocation process may fluctuate year-by-year longer term we remain committed to a balanced capital allocation strategy.
Overall we’re confident that the progress we’re making to more efficiently manage working capital and improve cash flow will benefit our shareholders over the long run.
Next I like to spend a few minutes providing a status update on the AP1000 RCP program.
As I noted at the start of the call we issued a joint press release last night between Curtiss-Wright Westinghouse and State and Nuclear Power Technology Corporation of China or SNPTC.
I’m excited to report that we have successfully completed the required design modifications final testing and post test inspection on our pumps.
As a result we announced that our reactor coolant pump has reached full qualification both by our customer and the Chinese following months of rigorous testing.
You might recall that earlier in the year we successfully completed the engineering and endurance testing on our pumps.
Most recently we satisfactorily completed newly required testing from the National Nuclear Safety Administration or NNSA which is the Chinese equivalent of the US NRC going a step further to prove out the successful operation of our RCPs.
We now have a fully qualified design that meets all specifications in support of the 60 year life span.
The first production unit is packaged and ready to go as you can see on the slide and the second unit is in process.
Transportation has been scheduled and we are preparing to ship these first two pumps to China in November.
We believe there is a potential to ship two additional pumps by year end.
We are pleased to reach these key milestones on such an exciting nuclear program and it’s a testament to our team’s persistence and fortitude.
Negotiations on the next China AP1000 RCP order are ongoing.
Now that we have demonstrated a successful design with rigorous hardware testing on our first of a kind RCP we firmly believe that we’ll have a contract in hand once all parties agree on contract terms including the number of plants pumps and pricing.
Should the receipt of this order be delayed beyond the fourth quarter we still believe that we will be able to achieve our full year 2015 EPS guidance.
The timing of receipt of this order will be dictated by China’s need for nuclear power.
We look forward to continuing to support China’s nuclear power needs for years to come.
Overall the demand for the AC1000 power plant remains strong as it is expected to be a critical element in the construction of new nuclear power plants in China Europe and the U.S.
We remain confident that Curtiss-Wright will play a long term role in support of this nuclear industry expansion.
In summary we’re pleased with the strength in our defense markets which offset some of the challenges impeding our commercial markets.
We expect 90 to 100 basis points in operating margin expansion in 2015 up to a new range of 13.5% to 13.6% led by our ongoing margin improvement initiatives supporting the One Curtiss-Wright vision.
This puts us ahead of plans for the year and reflects our team’s continued strong execution.
As a reminder we are aiming to reach and then maintain our position in the upper quartile of our peer group for all of our long term financial metrics.
We are intently focused on driving synergies and producing significant cost savings and I am very confident that we will reach our goals.
These actions along with our continued commitment to return capital to shareholders through steady share repurchases are expected to drive double digit EPS growth in 2015.
We remain optimistic that the steps we are taking in 2015 will drive strong shareholder returns for years to come.
At this time I’d like to open up today’s conference call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Mike Ciarmoli with KeyBanc Capital Market.
Your line is now open.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning Mike.
Hi Mike.
So maybe Dave just to stay on that topic on the AP1000 how do you make the guidance if the orders slips into first quarter next year.
Where else are you going to pick up any additional upside? Well we’ve got a nice range there.
The order as we’ve discussed in the past is worth roughly 13 sales three op income.
So we still think it’s within range and as always we work as hard as we can to do whatever we can to remain in that category and take there some of those issues that come up from time to time.
So we view it as – it will be great to have it as planned but if it doesn’t happen then we still feel pretty confident.
We are going to do what we said we are going to do.
And do you guys just have shipping the two pumps in the full year or are you actually thinking you can get the four pumps shipped in the full year.
I know you said there’s a chance you can get four out the door.
Well we’re planning on shipping two.
They ship in pairs and so we are planning on shipping two in November.
The ship has already been called.
As you saw in the picture we’ve got them packaged one of them anyway.
The second one is nearing that process.
And then in the follow-on too we got planned – our manufacturing plans are to package those up and get them out in December and if we can get anymore out then we are certainly going to do it.
Okay.
Can you give us – I mean what’s the – I know you guys were optimistic on getting this signed.
You’re seemingly adding that little bit of language that timing of the order is going to be dictated by China’s needs for nuclear energy.
I mean what is the hold-up at this point.
It sounded like for a couple of months now the I’s were dotted the T’s were crossed.
I mean what’s – can you kind of give us any insight into what are the puts and takes right now.
Yes it’s interesting Mike.
I think we’ve all learned a lot over the last 10 years.
I think we’ve been talking about this and more recently two years that I‘ve been talking about it on every call and maybe what we have – we certainly came to a conclusion that we needed to present our customers with a qualified unit.
That has now happened and that was extremely exciting for us.
It was great news.
It was coincidental that we just got it signed off the quality sign offs and so forth from both our customers and that included meetings in China and it included the results from all the testing and as I indicated we were asked to perform additional tests and as a user I don’t blame our customers for doing that.
So now finally we are at the point where I’d say we are unchartered waters and that I don’t recall having been in a situation where we’ve got the qualified unit we’ve got everything signed off in that regard we’re shipping the hardware out and now I can say that we’ve done our part but units will get there [indiscernible] work and what happens next? Well we’re in the negotiations with the Chinese.
We’ve been negotiating for the last year or two and this sort of heats up as you get closer towards this stage in the cycle and as we were in my prepared remarks.
I’m not really sure what happens from here.
We do expect an order.
I know the Chinese want to place an order.
I know that they need the pumps we need them it’s a great mutual relationship.
We need to arrive at mutually agreeable commercial terms and that’s yet to come where we have trips planned in the near future to continue the negotiations and as far as I am concerned as long as we meet those requirements that’s everybody is mutually agreeable with the terms and so forth then we’ll move out and we’ll continue to progress on this program which is its huge for us and for the Chinese and the world in one respect it’s a fantastic market for us it’s a fantastic program.
So we’re as excited about it as we ever were.
It’s just I don’t have anything new to tell you right now other than its in the hands of our customers to negotiate with us and arrive at the successful conclusion for that.
Got it that’s helpful.
And then you obviously you guys are doing a great job controlling what you can control internally costs.
You can’t control the end markets.
You’ve got a real meaningful ramp here in operating margins into the fourth quarter.
Can you just shed some light on what’s changing or what you’re doing? I mean it just seems like your really stepping up the internal cost controls there and how we should think about the level of operating margin you’re going to achieve in the fourth quarter going into next year even which is going to be pretty impressive given the constrained top line volume environment.
Yes sure Mike.
I mean if you look at the fourth quarter it’s not a typical ramp.
I would say it’s probably a little accentuated with a few things from the third quarter that shift to the fourth quarter as well but you can tell we are looking at $70 million incremental sales $30 million in profit so it’s definitely one of our better fourth quarter ramps.
So I’ll just go through the segments in commercial and industrial.
I mean they are going to benefit from the sales volumes.
They are also going to have a big bump in their margin there.
They are probably the furthest along in our operating margin improvement programs and I think we’ve said that in the past as well and they are also going to benefit from favorable sales mix.
They are going to have in the fourth quarter higher sales in their higher margin sensors products as well as the valves in the fourth quarter.
I will say so it’s a combination in the volume.
They are cost reduction initiatives and favorable mix for industrial and I will say 75% of the commercial industrial segment sales are in backlog already as of September.
Defense is kind of a little bit the opposite thing.
They have a pretty good increase in sales so they’ll get some benefit from the volume and absorption.
Not as much but a little bit from margin improvement but they are going to be negatively impacted in the fourth quarter by mix as we are seeing a shift from what we benefited from in the third quarter of the higher margin cost products to more sales of the lower margin systems products in the fourth quarter.
So they’ve got the same thing going on but their mix is a little bit different than commercial and industrial and I’ll say 81% of the defense segment’s fourth quarter sales are in backlog as of September 30.
And then Power the largest increase in sales which of course includes the new order it includes a more domestic production and then we’re back on the production trail and a pick-up in our aftermarket sales which is not atypical for the nuclear aftermarket fourth quarter is a typically higher maintenance quarter following some large output quarters in the third and the second.
So fairly typical with the exception of the new order.
So again they have volumes they will have margin improvement.
The other thing impacting the power segment in the fourth quarter is they also will benefit from a supplemental technology transfer agreement that they signed in the fourth quarter which will add to their margins for sure and just again keeping in that 70% of their orders are in backlog as of September 30.
75% if you include the order we haven’t gotten yet but that’s in our sales report.
And then of course corporate went up.
If you’re looking from the third quarter even the nine months into the fourth we’re not going to have a pension charge again and we’re also expecting some lower corporate spending.
So it’s a combination of all of the above.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
I’ll jump back in the queue guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Good morning Myles.
First I have just maybe a follow-up.
So Glenn you mentioned the supplemental tech transfer.
Can you size that in terms of the impact to the fourth quarter and can you put it in context as it relates to – you had these before.
How different is this new one? Yes it’s just actually an extension.
We’re continuing – the original one I think ran out or is in the process of running out so we had a few of these come along so far.
I think its $2 million or $3 million in the quarter somewhere in that range.
I don’t have the exact number.
And is this something that is an ongoing stream or is it a kind of one-time for the quarter and then… That’s a one-time for the quarter.
In the commercial segment can you talk about the dynamics of the margins on a year-on-year basis? Can you talk about some of the declines in the surface treatment? I’m just looking at the kind of the decremental margins on the volume declines.
It looks like the decrementals were about 50%.
Just kind of curious I know surface treatment is a pretty volume sensitive business.
Is that where most of the declines occurred in the quarter year-over-year? So the thought is certainly you hit it on the head.
It is volume sensitive that is a big piece of it and the other piece was generally in our industrial business with vehicles and the valves.
All there contributed with surface temperature.
And then on industrial in general in the segment commercial industrial segment it’s been hard for everybody to forecast but general industrial is going to do and that’s shown up in your guidance in the due course of the year.
As you look kind of from here going forward what markets are deteriorating finding footing and then kind of starting to turn the corner for growth? Can you just give us a snapshot within this segment as it looks forward? I’ll give you just the general overview of my perspective Myles.
Like you said I mean the stuff that we have no control over the oil prices and so forth that is certainly driving everything down.
Outlook was I would look for some potential refinery MRO possibly maintaining – it did pretty good on the first half.
We’re not sure what it’s going to do in the last quarter here and in the next six months or so.
Chemical processing I would expect would probably pick up a little bit with less of a risk associated with the gas side.
Certainly we look at the destocking that everybody has experienced; we being among those and our more recently have then – many other industrial and I think that for the most part that hopefully it is pretty much behind us but we’re watching that carefully because a lot of our products are fast turned and some was they’ve destocked and generally can have a nice effect up or on the other hand it could affect us rather quickly down as it did in Q3.
I’m not sure outlook in off highway in Europe and on highway that has been waning for a while.
They are still sort of tethering on what they think they are going to be doing with their economy but domestic looks pretty good.
It’s really fueled by the fuel efficient sort of technologies that are emerging that the fleet preparations and/or fleet replacements are encouraging the use of today.
So we do drive on new product introductions and especially in this area it might help pick that up for us so we’re feeling pretty good there.
We talked about international projects pretty slow and that just wanes along with the gas prices.
And then lastly I’d say medical mobility as part of that general industrial.
It’s been a pretty nice segment for us and we’ve seen growth there.
We think that we’ll continue to see that.
While it’s not a huge piece it’s nice to have something that has some real positive momentum to it.
Okay and the last one for you Glenn.
So as I look at the cash flow generations it was great in the quarter and it looks like kind of year-over-year you’re expecting roughly a flat 4Q into the free cash flow generation versus last year.
How much if at all is A the order from China and B with the extra two pumps going out the door material or not material to kind of over achieving versus your cash and guidance? Yes the shipping part the shipment doesn’t really have any impact on our cash flow but the order right now again somewhere it comes down to the actual timing whereas for general we’re saying we would probably we would have around a $20 million impact on our full year guidance if we do not get the order.
On the cash flow.
If we get it late it could be less than that but generally speaking the question is it’s about $20 million on the free cash flow.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Kristine Liwag with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Kristine.
You think the low end of your full year 2015 outlook in commercial industrial this kind of implies that 3Q 2015 is the bottom in commercial industrial sales.
Can you provide some color on momentum of orders in that end market and should we see sequential improvement in commercial industrial sales pasts 4Q? Well I would say in the commercial industrial the quarter was not our best quarter for orders.
Year-to-date I think we’re down 9% in that segment in the quarter 5% year-to-date.
So a little bit better and our current estimate for the year is 3%.
So it is trending in the right direction.
Obviously 2015 [ph] fourth quarter will be a little pick up for that.
I couldn’t tell you exactly where that’s coming from at this – but I think it would be just some naval valves and industrial valves for that.
Sure.
And a follow-up in the surface technology weakness; is this the same headwind that you have previously highlighted in shot-peening because of movement in customer facilities or is this something new.
This is the same one that we talked about before Kristine.
And at what point does that stop becoming a headwind? I think it really runs out at the end of ’16 and maybe there’s a tiny bit left at ’17.
And lastly for the AP1000 can you please remind us how many reactor coolant pumps there are in a nuclear reactor and then the pricing range per coolant.
Just to remind there is eight pumps four pumps per reactors two reactors at a plant site so for any site its eight pumps for us.
The price on the Chinese order was approximately $12.5 million a pump.
The pricing on the domestic order which we received the year after the Chinese order was about $15 million approximately $15 million a pump and obviously we’re not at liberty to talk about anything in the future other than say we expect it to be better than domestic orders.
Sure.
And then if you do get the order in 4Q how quickly will you see revenue pick up in ’16 if you do get that order? Pretty quickly.
I guess if we got the order on December 31 it might be tough but if its reasonably in the quarter November and December we should be able to meet that 13 and three or just shy of it.
It’s all going to come back to the actual timing now.
When we say Q4 if it was October 1 I’d say we are very confident we’ll hit that.
December 19 its less confident if you know what I mean.
Sure and maybe the last question if I can sneak one more in.
When you look at the timeline of order for last delivery is that stretching over one year two years? What’s kind of that timeframe? On the AP1000? Yes.
It’s really hard to gauge the very first pump because we got the order… I guess what I’m trying to find out is the cadence of that I mean the eight pumps over what timeframe will you realize revenue for that order.
Oh okay.
It’s used – I’d say it’s probably a five year period and it’s directly managed using a percent complete accounting and it will occur like – we used to do it if it is like a bell curve.
It will ramp up in year one two and three and ramp down in year four and five.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of George Godfrey with CL King.
Your line is now open.
Thank you for taking the questions.
Good morning.
Good morning.
A question on the balance capital allocation.
When your thinking about as we go into the ’16 ’17 and ’18 more of a three year view when you say balance do you think 50/50 in terms of capital return versus capital invested or is it 60/40.
How do you think about putting more granularity on the balance? It’s really it’s more or less its one-third one-third one-third it’s what we’ve said George.
It’s one-third to internal investment one-third to acquisitions and one-third to shareholder returns.
Now that’s our strategy going in.
Year-over-year things can change as we went into this year similarly with that approach but the acquisitions were little lighter than we expected this year so we shifted more the allocation to the share repurchases.
Next year it could go the other way.
But generally speaking when we start the year that’s our allocation of our available cash one-third to internal one-third of acquisition and one-third to shareholders returns.
Got it and the tax rate for this year 31% is that something you think goes forward into the next couple of years.
That’s probably a good proxy at this point.
I couldn’t tell you when we – as you can tell if you go back historically it does move around a little bit but it’s usually 31 or 32 we start the year out.
If some things go our way we get the benefit like we did this year.
So I would say 31 32 is a good place to be.
Got it and then lastly you have the ending headcount there exactly.
I do not I know we put in our press release approximately 9 000.
That’s probably the best number to use.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Good morning Sam.
And I apologize if I ask something that you have already addressed because I guess we go put into a different queue so I missed some of the introduction at the beginning.
But following on to that capital allocation question I guess just can you talk about how does the end market weakness and pressure on kind of earnings and valuation impact your thinking about bolt-on.
Does it shift your focus of which markets are more attractive or does it make buybacks more appealing? How do you just think about it in light of some of the market weakness? Generally what we do we look strategically at it first off long term and if you look at the weakness – if that opens an opportunity for a technology and I’ll be specific not on a fixture upper because as I said before from an accounted perspective we not really into fixer uppers.
But if it were to open up from a price perspective on selling price on a property that might help us or entice us.
Our strategies are pretty well set in terms of where we want to grow.
I’ve said in the past I like industrial and I still do.
Yes we got a little bit of a headwind right now so does the rest of the world but we’ll get over it and if something were to open up in that area then that would be great.
Now again that’s largely depended on the selling price and outlook on that market.
I do feel very bullish that the markets will come back and it’s just the matter of time.
I think then on the other aspect on the share repo side we certainly weight these things that’s what we did this year.
We walked away from a couple of acquisitions because the business model for the acquisition versus share repo didn’t – it weighed in favor of share repo.
And it was in the case of one specific line thinking about price is just too high and so we elected to just migrate from that and knowing that we decided look let’s just buy more of ourselves that’s the best investment that we can make right in that regard.
But long term it is still the overall objective and strategy for us and that’s the way we will look at it.
It’s a long term play but as you’ve seen and as I indicated earlier on my script we have $100 million in opportunistic money that we have been utilizing and where we see or stock at a great spot then we’ll acquire that.
And then on the other hand if we do find something towards the year end that’s looking like a nice business or product line that does come in and meet the parameters that we set forth for acquisitions we’ll look strongly at that.
So it’s kind of weighing factors and I don’t know if that answered your question but that’s general.
It does.
I guess I’m just trying to think about how you accelerated the buyback and bought a little more this year than you originally intended and just thinking about how to plan for next year as to how you think about that.
And I know Glenn you just said a third a third a third but just wondering if it shifts the dynamics at all given acquisition prices or anything else.
No I don’t think so.
We go through – presumably we’ll do 10b5-1 plan for next year.
We haven’t come up with those numbers yet.
We are assisting where we think we’ll be next year and how we are going to allocate our capital.
So we are in that process and we will be talking more about that obviously on the next call.
But I think we are establishing the parameters around that now.
The pricing is let’s say as acquisitions aren’t going to drive us in any one direction unless and until as I indication it becomes on par with investing in ourselves and/or it’s a very compelling strategic reason.
Okay and then just if you can answer one question which you might addressed already was just on the defense side.
Compared to where you were in July revenues are down a little bit but profits and margins are up.
Is that a mix issue? Are there some EAC adjustments that help pump the margins up.
What was is it that drove the profits up higher even on lower revenue? The spin back to the second quarter.
For the first half the margins in that segment were only like 18.3% which was right in line with our guidance.
So the real guidance adjustment really came on the heels of the third quarter strength which brought year-to-date up to 19.4% and it was a mix issue Sam.
We had a very high percentage of our higher margins comps sales in the third quarter and its going to flip a little bit in the fourth quarter and we are going to different shift mix and shift shift and mix to a lower margin not as a high margin systems businesses and therefore we have raised the guidance based on the year-to-date essentially.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jim Foung with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Hi Jimmy.
Good morning Jimmy.
I was wondering if you could comment on Westinghouse purchase of keeping a nice planned construction business.
Are you showing it how that would impact your business with Westinghouse and whether it’s positive or negative for you.
Thanks for asking about that Jimmy.
There is no impact to us.
We’ve reached out and talked to our people and we are completely agnostic for the transaction.
So that you wouldn’t see maybe any potential benefit that you could sell more products now that Westinghouse is in complete control of the whole process.
If they are able to sell more obviously we’ll be the benefactor of that but it’s nothing that we can foresee and we don’t know there plans for that operating and that segment of their business now.
Maybe its early days but on the first blush its certainly wouldn’t impact us from any negative perspective.
I would love to think that if they could sell more it would definitely benefit us so other than that there is no manufacturing operational impact.
Okay and then just shifting gears just to the commercial aerospace with Boeing.
Production was kind of flat year-over-year but when do you see that picking up for you in terms of your shipment to Boeing.
I believe they are expected primarily increases next year.
I would expect to see – I don’t know where they are exactly but I think we would will some – we shall see pickup in rates next year.
Okay.
So fourth quarter is kind of the same kind of flat but then you start seeing the higher numbers in 2016.
Yes.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Jimmy.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ryan Cassil with Seaport Global.
Your line is now open.
Thanks for taking my question guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the AP1000 order you said at this point everyone wants to get it done but it’s coming down to really negotiations.
Is price the big sticking point here? Are there other perhaps logistical factors outside of price that are really in focus? It’s generally a full circle in commercial terms and that includes everything from price to lead times to terms to warranty it’s a big deal and this is a big program.
It will be a very nice order and it means a lot to both ourselves the Chinese and Westinghouse.
So a lot of time and energy goes into something like this.
Okay and as you go through this process with the customer have you gotten any additional visibility.
I know you are focused on getting this order but have you gotten additional visibility on other orders perhaps behind this one as well as you worked with them.
I can tell you not from a specific order perspective but I’ll give you the color on what we see out there that is in the press and you may have seen this also.
But the China five year plan is to build up to eight plants per year.
Now using Glenn’s math there if it were fully AP1000 and if they all used our RCPs and they all used the generation three that Westinghouse and ourselves have designed then for us RCP wise that’s eight per times eight plants per year.
Now that’s a huge number.
I would not anticipate in my wildest dreams that they would be all AP1000.
I mean maybe if they could it would be fantastic but the reality of it is will they make eight per year will be they all be AP1000 type power plants I don’t think but that’s through 2020.
Their goal is 110 power plants by the year 2030.
So you can see China alone is huge.
It dwarfs the balance of the world relative to its need for clean energy source and we obviously would not take that and say look we are going to have a 110 times eight so that just the math would be crazy but it’s a nice thought nice dream.
But in any case that’s what the outlook is like and that’s from their published periodicals over in China.
Right.
And have you gotten any sense in talks that there’s sort of follow through or commitment outside of what’s in the press on that imitative.
No only in casual conversations that they are very obviously very strong with us.
They are RCP everybody was waiting.
You can imagine how long we’ve all waited for this successful conclusion for the processing and how delighted everybody is now that this thing is done.
So there is a big sigh of relief in that regard and like I said in the casual conversations yes there is plenty of opportunity out there for us that really makes the mind wander in terms of wow this could really be cool.
I mean it’s a big deal but nothing in concrete.
Okay that sounds good.
And then I think you talked about the possibility of shipping to additional pumps perhaps later in the quarter and if I’ve heard you right it could be about $25 million in sales but is there much profitability that’s kind of incremental associated with those shipments any quantity? The shipment isn’t really – we recognize sales in this program over the percent complete a method that started in 2007.
So we are really the shipment doesn’t result in any material financial implications.
Got it okay.
That’s what I figured.
And then moving to the industrial valves business could you talk about just trends you’ve seen quarter-to-date here in Q4.
Has that business picked up? It seems like you are assuming it does a little bit and then any color on just pricing impacts whether they are any different incrementally here as we move throughout the year.
I don’t have any say mid-quarter feel at this point but we are seeing a little bit of pickup in the balance in the fourth quarter.
That’s one of things relative to the third quarter probably its lot more of a timing issue than anything else.
We are hearing that out there pricing is becoming an issue.
We haven’t heard it’s a major issue for us yet but we hear it’s out there.
So other than I couldn’t really – we are in process of looking beyond 2015 at this point.
We are not really at a place where we can talk about that yet.
But we will in February but I can only talk to what we’ve seen in 2015 thus far.
Okay.
So it sounds like it’s an issue but you guys are managing and there is some price baked into the expectations already.
Yes.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is a follow-up from the line of Michael Ciarmoli with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Hey thanks guys.
One of mine got answered already but just in terms of your ground vehicle business on defense how are you guys thinking about any potential content on the JLTV and I’m thinking back.
I know you guys had a lot of content back when the Future Combat System was out there.
It seems like you’ve always gotten some nice wins.
So can JLTV be a catalyst for that ground vehicle segment.
We are on the JLTV.
I wouldn’t say I wouldn’t use the work catalyst.
That implies something huge in my mind in any case but we are active on a JLTV so I do see something positive coming out of that.
Generally what you find with us because of the breadth and reach of our products we are pretty much everything that gets fielded to some degree a lot little embedded computing just all sorts of different products secularized archived stuff and in this particular one they are probably early days to count the chickens before they hatch but it’s not a huge number.
When you take Bradley we think Bradley is coming back sort of with opportunities there and I think that the ground defense overseas in Europe it’s absolutely still moving in the direction that we are very very happy with.
A huge bump last year and it will continue to for several more years.
So in just general a ground defense.
I mean that’s a nice one to have.
It will be a little bit lumpy from time-to-time.
Got it.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Mike.
Thank you.
And our next question is a follow-up from the line of Stephen Levenson with Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Hey good morning Steve.
Just looking forward a little bit I know you are not giving guidance but do you see changes in the discount rate that would affect pension accounting in 2016 that we should get a heads up on now.
Yes we will probably more at quarter point is what we are thinking at this point.
A quarter point lower or higher? Higher.
Higher okay so maybe a little bit less pension expense next year.
Okay thanks very much.
Welcome.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
And our next question is a follow-up from the line of George Godfrey with CL King.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Just thinking again I know you don’t want to provide guidance but conceptually free cash flow in ’14 was about $265 million the upper end of your adjusted free cash flow $265 million.
If revenue and net income were flat to slightly up would you think free cash flow was at a similar level these levels.
I think that’s a fair assumption yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
David Adams for any closing comments.
Thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
Have a great day.
Bye-bye.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today’s program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Curtiss-Wright Fourth Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Jim Ryan Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Ryan you may begin.
Thank you Andrea and good morning everyone.
Welcome to Curtiss-Wright's fourth quarter and full-year 2015 earnings conference call.
Joining me on the call today are Dave Adams our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Glenn Tynan our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our call today is being webcast and the press release as well as a copy of today's financial presentation are available for download through the Investor Relations section of our company website at www.curtisswright.com.
A replay of this call also can be found on the website and will be available through March 03.
Please note today's discussion will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are based on management's current expectations and are not guarantees of future performance.
Forward-looking statements always involve risks and uncertainties and we detail those risks and uncertainties in our public filings with the SEC.
In addition certain non-GAAP financial measures will be discussed on the call today.
A reconciliation is available in the earnings release and at the end of this presentation and will be available on the company’s website.
You also will find some additional charts on sales by end market at the end of this presentation.
Finally our discussions today of current and future results except for cash flow are on a continuing operations basis which excludes all previously announced divestitures.
In addition any references to organic growth excludes the effects of foreign currency translation acquisitions and divestitures unless otherwise noted.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dave to get things started.
Dave? Thank you Jim.
Good morning everyone.
For our agenda today I’ll begin with the key highlights for 2015 followed by Glenn who will provide a more thorough revenue of our fourth quarter and full-year 2015 financial performance along with our initial 2016 guidance.
Then I’ll return to provide some additional commentary on the AP1000 margin expansion program and our capital allocation strategy before we move on to Q&amp;A.
Overall we were quite pleased with our 2015 results.
The diversified nature of our business allowed us to mitigate several industrial headwinds and they produced strong margin expansion and free cash flow.
Our operating margin at 14.1% was the highest level in more than a decade and we reached the top quartile of our peer group.
This reflects the ongoing benefits of our One Curtiss-Wright initiatives.
Without a doubt one of the most newsworthy items was the recent signing of the anticipated China AP1000 reactor coolant pump or RCP order worth more than $450 million.
This represents the largest single order ever received by Curtiss-Wright.
As you saw by our results this provided an immediate boost to our power segment and was a strong contributor to driving Curtiss-Wright's full-year 2015 EPS above $4 per share.
In fact 2015 marked the first time in recent history that our EPS exceeded $4 led by the strong fourth quarter performance.
We also experienced a strong year in our defense businesses where we are continuing to benefit from our wide breadth of product offerings as well as our focus on growth segments with a high demand for our advanced technologies.
However like most companies with industrial exposure we're not immune to the effects of weaker global economic growth and extremely low oil prices.
We experienced lower-than-expected sales in several areas in 2015 primarily those businesses directly and/or indirectly affected by low oil and natural gas prices.
As a result we have tempered our industrial sales outlook for 2016.
Later I will discuss how we are mitigating top line pressures to position Curtiss-Wright for future margin expansion.
We have made tremendous progress over the last two years improving Curtiss-Wright's overall operating margin by nearly 500 basis points enabling us to reach the top quartile in our peer group.
We expect continued solid increases in our profitability and especially our free cash flow which is expected to exceed 2015 levels and approach $300 million in 2016.
We also repurchased $300 million of our stock in 2015 which reflects our continued commitment to return capital to shareholders.
I will touch more on this later on the call.
Before handing over to Glenn I wanted to cover a few highlights for Curtiss-Wright on the AP1000 program where we just completed a remarkable year.
We've spent most of 2015 completing engineering and endurance testing and final modifications to our design.
Following those efforts we were pleased to reach a major milestone last fall achieving a fully qualified RCP design.
We began shipping RCPs to China in November which jumpstarted our discussions on the next order.
As you saw by our January 05 press release we secured an order for 16 RCPs for the next round of China AP1000 reactors.
The order was received on December 31 2015 and totaled $448 million or $28 million per pump.
The receipt of this order and our continued efforts to advance our RCP technology would not have been possible without the tireless efforts of our Penn [ph] and Pittsburgh so I wanted to publicly acknowledge their extensive contributions.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Glenn to provide a more thorough review of our 2015 performance and 2016 financial outlook.
Thank you Dave and good morning everyone.
Overall our fourth quarter results included solid improvement in organic sales operating income operating margin and EPS driven in large part by the receipt of the new China AP1000 order and our ongoing focus on execution.
Aside from the AP1000 order we produced higher operating income and margin in the fourth quarter despite lower sales.
I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing the key drivers of our fourth quarter performance.
I'll start with Commercial/Industrial segment.
The impacts of weaker global economic conditions and lower oil prices were greater than expected which precipitated a larger than expected decline in industrial sales.
In industrial valves we've continued to experience weaker sales in the oil and gas and petrochemical markets primarily driven by the industry wide reductions in capital expenditures which have led to larger than expected declines in demand on large projects.
As a result of the fourth quarter decline full-year 2015 sales in these energy businesses were down more than 15%.
For industrial vehicles we experienced lower sales of products sold of the heavy-duty Class A truck market as the North American market peaked in 2015 and we began to see reduced demand during the fourth quarter.
Finally across the remainder of our general industrial markets including surface treatment services sales were negatively impacted by the sharp drop in oil prices unfavorable FX and overall weaker global demand.
So as a result of lower segment sales operating income declined 1% and fell short of our expectations.
However on a positive note segment operating margin increased by 30 basis points to 14.7% principally due to improved profitability on industrial valves and vehicle products despite the aforementioned lower sales volumes due to our proactive cost reduction actions.
In the Defense segment operating income was up 18% despite a 4% decline in sales while operating margin was up 450 basis points to 24.4%.
Segment operating income included $3 million favorable impact of FX.
On an organic basis operating income increased 5% despite a 1% decline in sales.
Though our sales fell short of our expectations we experienced continued solid growth in profitability within our COTS embedded computing business aided by our ongoing operational and margin improvement initiatives.
Next in the Power segment operating income was up 262% and operating margin was up substantially to 23.5%.
This performance reflects the impact of the new China RCP order including recognition of $13 million in revenue and $3 million dollars in operating income as expected as well as a $20 million one-time fee in the fourth quarter.
Excluding the AP1000 fee this segment still had an excellent quarter with operating income up 83% and operating margin of 550 basis points to 13.5%.
As expected our results reflect a strong improvement in operating income and margins now that we have moved beyond the significant expenditures related to testing and design modifications for our AP1000 RCPs.
We also generated higher profitability in our nuclear aftermarket business despite relatively flat sales due to ongoing margin improvement initiatives.
Regarding the fee and as noted in our October 2015 earnings call we had expectations for potential $4 million benefit in the fourth quarter.
Negotiations continued throughout the fourth quarter and ultimately the fee grew to $20 million which was recorded as both revenue and operating income in the quarter.
Following what was established in the 2007 technology contract the current fee primarily allows for procurement of components outside of China should the Chinese deem it necessary in their pursuit of self-reliance and for the use in the design and construction of RCPs in their current and future designs.
In summary overall fourth quarter operating income increased 45% which led to a 530-basis point increase in margins of 18.4%.
However even if we exclude the AP1000 fee our fourth quarter results were still strong as operating income was up 18% while operating margin increased 250 basis points to 15.6%.
This performance further illustrates the resilience of our business model our enterprise-wide focus on execution and the benefits of our diversified end market strategy despite the continued challenges facing our industrial businesses.
Moving to our full year results we concluded 2015 with strong profitability despite a 2% decline in sales.
Excluding FX 2015 organic sales were flat with 2014.
Overall higher sales to our defense markets were offset by a decline in sales to our commercial markets.
And while we're not going to address each market on Page 17 of the appendix you will find a detailed breakdown of our full-year 2015 sales by end markets.
Overall Curtiss-Wright operating income grew 10% driving operating margin up 150 basis points to 14.1%.
Our results reflect strong profitability in our Defense and Power segments the benefits of our ongoing margin improvement initiatives and the new RCP order.
And despite a decline in commercial and industrial sales of approximately $90 million from our initial guidance we were able to hold our operating margin on par with 2014.
As a result Curtiss-Wright's full-year diluted earnings per share was $4.04 up 17% from the prior year period.
Next to free cash flow we are on the heels of a very strong fourth quarter.
We concluded 2015 with solid free cash flow that exceeded our expectations primarily due to lower capital expenditures partially offset by lower advance payments.
Our 2015 free cash flow was $272 million adjusted to remove the $145 million pension contribution for free cash flow conversion rate of 141%.
And finally we generated a solid improvement in our return on invested capital which increased 110 basis points to 11.5% in 2015 due to our improved operating performance and stringent capital management.
This reflects an improvement of 350 basis points over the past two years.
Moving on to our 2016 end market sales guidance for the sake of proper comparison when reviewing growth rates for 2016 we are comparing to pro forma 2015 results which excludes the one-time AP1000 fee.
I'll begin with the Defense markets where 2016 sales are expected to grow between 2% and 4%.
The favorable trends in 2015 are expected to continue in 2016 due to improved DoD spending and a higher base budget which we expect to drive improvements in all three of our key defense markets as noted on the chart.
In aerospace defense we're expecting higher sales on fighter jet programs most notably on the Joint Strike Fighter while overall helicopter sales are expected to be lower.
In ground defense domestically we anticipate renewed demand in the U.S.
as modernization programs for the Bradley and Stryker vehicles are expected to gradually ramp up.
International sales should also improve led by sales of our turret drive stabilization systems.
And finally sales for the Naval Defense market will be essentially flat based on reduced year-over-year production on the Virginia Class Submarine Program due to timing while net sales in the Aircraft Carrier Programs are expected to be marginally higher.
Moving on to the commercial markets where overall sales are expected to decline 1% to 3% from our pro forma 2015 results.
I will start with commercial aerospace where sales are expected to decline between 2% and 4%.
As we previously had told you Airbus elected to ship wing forming on the A320 to a supplier in South Korea.
However this transition took longer than expected and shifted to 2016.
As a result we expect to see a reduction in sales to Airbus in 2016.
Meanwhile sales to Boeing are expected to remain flat as higher sales on the 737 program are expected to be offset by lower sales on the 747 program.
In power generation we expect sales to increase 4% to 6% compared to pro forma 2015 results.
Our performance will be driven by higher sales on the domestic AP1000 program as well as our non-RCP nuclear technologies.
In fact those businesses expect to generate between $10 million and $15 million in non-RCP AP1000 revenues in 2016.
However those gains are expected to be partially offset by reduced demand in the nuclear aftermarket business due to fewer planned outages in 2016.
And finally in the general industrial market we expect sales decline between 2% and 6% in 2016.
Starting with industrial valves sales to the oil and gas market are expected to decline 10% to 15% while sales to the chemical and petrochemical markets are expected to be down slightly.
And while the duration of the oil and gas downturn is uncertain the energy markets represent only 7% of total Curtiss-Wright 2016 sales with 5% of these sales to the oil and gas market and the balance to the chemical and petrochemical markets.
Moving to industrial vehicles while on-highway sales will be impacted by the expected declines facing the heavy-duty Class A truck market which peaked in 2015 those reductions are expected to be partially offset by higher sales to the medium-duty truck market which now accounts for a higher percentage of our industrial vehicle sales than the heavy-duty trucks.
As a result our overall on-highway sales will only be down approximately 5% in 2016.
Moving on off-highway sales are expected to increase approximate 5% as overall construction equipment sales are expected to more than offset weaker conditions in the global agricultural market.
And finally our medical mobility sales are expected to improve slightly due to continued market share gains while the remainder of our general industrial businesses that are more economically sensitive are expected to be relatively flat with 2015.
To sum up we are forecasting overall Curtiss-Wright 2016 sales to range from up 1% to down 1% compared to 2015.
In the appendix you will find the final 2015 end market sales waterfall and the end market sales pie charts for each of our three segments as well as the 2016 end market sales waterfall based on our guidance.
Continuing with our financial outlook and as a reminder we are comparing 2016 guidance to pro forma 2015 results which excludes the one-time AP1000 fee from both sales and operating income within our Power segment and Curtiss-Wright overall.
In 2016 we expect full year sales to be approximately $2.2 billion.
Total operating income is expected to grow 5% to 8% while operating margin is expected to expand another 70 to 90 basis points to a range of 14% to 14.2%.
And the Commercial/Industrial segment sales are expected to decrease between 1% and 3% primarily led by reduced demand in the general industrial market.
While we are continuing to navigate through the challenging industrial market environment and despite facility consolidation costs in 2016 we are projecting a slight improvement in operating margin to a range of 14.6% to 14.8% due to our cost mitigation actions.
Next is the Defense segment where sales are expected to grow 3% to 5% led by growth in the aerospace and ground defense markets.
Regarding our profitability in this segment I'd like to highlight several key drivers.
As a reminder our second quarter 2015 results included a one-time benefit for the transition between our development and our production contract our turret drive stabilization systems.
This resulted in a $4 million benefit to our contract margin in sales which will not recur in 2016.
We also expect to be negatively impacted by a less favorable sales mix in 2016 as we expect a decrease in our higher margin COTS sales and an increase in our lower margin system solutions.
Furthermore 2016 includes increased investments in R&amp;D to support our high-tech embedded computing products as well as restructuring costs.
As a result we are projecting lower operating income and 140 to 160 basis points reduction in operating margin to a range of 19.1% to 19.3%.
Next to the Power segment where sales are expected to grow 2% to 5% primarily led by growth on the AP1000 program.
We are projecting significant improvement in operating income compared to our pro forma 2015 results driving at 240 to 260 basis points increase in operating margin to a range of 12.9% to 13.1%.
Aside from the higher margins associated with the new AP1000 order we are realizing the benefits of moving past the expense of testing and design costs which have previously impacted the AP1000 program.
Continuing with our 2016 outlook we expect reduced pension expense to drive lower corporate costs as we move past the impact of the pension payout to our former chairman and also begin to experience the benefits of our $145 cash contribution made to our pension plan in 2015.
In addition we are forecasting diluted shares outstanding to be 46 million reflecting our previous share repurchase activity and our expectations for 2016 share repurchases to more than offset the dilution from stock issuances.
Our 2016 guidance for diluted earnings per share is a range of $4 to $4.15 which represents EPS growth of 7% to 11% over pro forma 2015 results.
The weighting of our 2016 quarterly EPS expectations will be a bit of an anomaly.
We expect our first quarter to be lower than the year ago with each quarter increasing sequentially and the fourth quarter to be our strongest as we have done historically.
As a result we expect approximately 35% of our full-year EPS to be in the first half of the year and to be more heavily weighted to the second half than in prior years.
We expect first quarter 2016 EPS to be driven by several factors including reduced year-over-year sales and operating income in the Commercial/Industrial segment as well as a few million dollars in 2016 restructuring costs.
Further the prior year period included the one-time Progress Energy termination benefit of $7 million or $0.10 per share in the Power segment which will not recur in 2016.
Given the number of moving pieces and to aid in your modeling we expect first quarter earnings per share to range from approximately $0.60 to $0.70.
And despite the lower first quarter expectations we remain confident in achieving our full-year EPS guidance.
Next to our cash flow as a reminder and as a result of the voluntary pension contribution in 2015 we do not anticipate making cash contributions for the Curtiss-Wright plan for the next four years.
We have the expectations for strong free cash flow in 2016.
Our free cash flow is expected to range from $280 million to $300 million up 3% to 10% compared with 2015 with an expected conversion rate of 152% to 157%.
The improvement in cash flow will be driven by the receipt of advanced cash payments related to the new AP1000 order and a reduction in working capital partially offset by an anticipated increase in 2016 capital expenditures due to the planned facility consolidations and other restructuring activities.
And finally we expect our free cash flow per share to range from $6.10 to $6.50 a 6% to 14% increase over 2015.
Next I'd like to provide some specific details on the new AP1000 RCP order.
We expect a duration of the order to range from 2015 to 2021 with initial deliveries beginning in 2019.
Revenue recognition on this order will be based on percent of completion or POC accounting where we will recognize revenue as the incurred cost towards completion of the order.
Over the production cycle we expect revenue to be recognized like a bell curve as we have stated with prior AP1000 orders beginning in 2015 and principally including 2020.
Revenue will not be recognized a linear basis.
As we have indicated on the slide because we recognize order revenues and the one-time fee in 2015 AP1000 growth in this order will be essentially flat in 2016.
This will be followed by a progressive ramp in 2017 through 2019 which is expected to be the peak year before dropping off sharply in 2020 and tailing off for the remainder of the order.
Consistent with the margin profile we provided in 2015 we expect margin in this order to be in the low 20% range.
Finally we expect to receive approximately $60 million in advanced cash payments in 2016 related to this order as is typical with these types of orders.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Dave to provide some additional color on the AP1000 program.
Dave? Thanks Glenn.
I'll begin with the orders received prior to 2015.
Regarding our original 2007 China order based on the current schedule provided by a customer we are making preparations to complete shipment of all 16 RCPs by year end.
In fact all four of the RCPs for Sanmen 1 which is expected to be the first AP1000 reactor in operation in the world have been installed in the plant.
All four of the RCPs for Haiyang 1 are enroute to the site.
So thus far we have shipped eight of the 16 RCPs to China.
Note the revenue recognition on this 2007 China order will be essentially complete by the end of 2016.
Next to our U.S.
order which was received in 2008.
Our production of those RCPs is progressing well and we expect to begin shipments this year concluding in 2017.
Recall that our domestic customer requested us to commence shipments related to this order after we completed the first eight RCPs under the original China order.
Revenues and margin on the U.S.
order will be realized through the end of 2017.
Now let me turn our attention to the new China order and the exciting news this brings to Curtiss-Wright.
After several years of design iterations we were able to successfully complete all tests and as promised our Chinese customer placed the first new production order with us.
Under the new order received in late December Curtiss-Wright will be producing 16 RCPs across the total of four plant sites or four RCPs for each site.
As anticipated based on the 2007 RCP technology transfer agreement and consistent with China's local build strategy the Chinese customer placed a parallel order with a Chinese national entity.
We had always expected to share in the production of RCPs and this April [ph] the Chinese expect to produce the other 16 RCP in-country bringing the total number of RCPs to 32 across the four plant sites.
I will reiterate Curtiss-Wright's RCP status.
We have the only fully qualified tested and delivered AP1000 reactor coolant pump in the world.
We have passed all the technical gates and are in full rate production of our RCPs which is no small undertaking.
Accordingly we have a great comfort level with our technology offering and positioning in the market and believe we will remain superior for years to come.
As far as the future is concerned we look forward to continuing our close working relationship with both our Chinese and domestic customers in their need for the highest quality and safest reactor coolant pump design in the world.
As you are aware China has vast long term plans to triple the amount of energy provided by nuclear power plants including the potential construction of well over 100 reactors.
This presents a tremendous long term opportunity as the need for nuclear reactors goes well beyond the current capabilities of the Chinese indigenous supply chain.
Probably available data on potential near term reactor construction in China indicates a minimum of 22 AP1000 nuclear reactors to be built over the next eight to 10 years.
This equates to 88 Curtiss-Wright designed RCPs.
A quite run of the map with current RCP pricing says this market alone is worth approximately $2.5 billion dollars.
As India and other countries continue to move further down the path with their nuclear construction goals we anticipate more opportunities for our nuclear power generation business.
Public data notes 60 potential reactors in India and the AP1000 is likely to play a significant role.
Aside from RCPs our remaining nuclear businesses have the potential to contribute additional products and services to the AP1000 as well as several other reactor designs which typically occurs much later in a plant construction cycle.
Overall it is clear that the long term nuclear opportunity available to Curtiss-Wright is significant and we will continue to pursue our share in the best interests of our company and shareholders.
Next a review of our strategic margin drivers.
As a reminder one of our key objectives is expanding our operating margin in order to reach and maintain top quartile status compared to our peers.
On this slide you can see our progress from 9.3% at our 2013 best to date up to 14.1% for 2015.
I'm obviously very proud of our team's success in driving margin expansion as the pace of our transformation demonstrates our focus on improving shareholder value by leveraging our competencies.
We will not let our foot off the gas in this regard as we continue to advance our best-in-class manufacturing and operating methodologies.
In 2016 one of the key drivers will be facility consolidations a component of our original long-term margin improvement initiatives.
Given the state of the overall economy and the proactive nature of our culture within Curtiss-Wright we're taking steps to ensure that we first preserve and then continue our margin expansion in 2016 and beyond.
For example in our Commercial/Industrial segment we're in the process of reducing our manufacturing footprint overseas by combining eight industrial facilities into one.
We are also planning additional facility consolidations and restructuring activities in other areas of the company.
In total we expect to incur $5 million to $6 million in upfront costs in 2016 to support all of these initiatives along with $12 million in CapEx.
This should help to generate approximately $10 million in future annualized savings.
As a point of reference we have had some relevant experience with facility consolidations.
A few years ago we proactively accomplished several consolidations within our Defense segment in response to the expected slowdown in the defense market and as a function of sequestration.
Fast-forward to today and you're seeing the results of those actions was strong segment margin expansion.
Finally our 2016 in future years results will also benefit from the actions we are taking to generate hard saving through our lean and supply chain initiatives.
Our goal is to generate a few million dollars in savings across each of our six divisions between 2016 and 2018 as part of our previously communicated operating margin initiatives.
We have good line of sight to achieve these expected savings.
As a result of these and other initiatives Curtiss-Wright's operating margin is expected exceed 14% in 2016 ahead of our planned 2018 timeframe.
We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities to improve our margins and reduce our cost particularly given the current economic and end market challenges.
At this time our primary focus is on maintaining our status on the top quartile rather than setting new long-range targets.
Next to capital allocation Curtiss-Wright is focused on continuing to generate free cash flow as evidenced by our strong 2015 results and 2016 expectations.
We remain committed to maintaining a balanced capital allocation strategy between operational requirements returning capital to our shareholders and strategic bolt-on acquisitions.
During 2015 this was principally weighted to returning capital to shareholders and satisfying operational requirements.
We've completed our $300 million buyback program which reflected $200 million in steady share repurchases via our 10b5-1 plan along with $100 million in opportunistic buying.
For 2016 we have begun buying back shares under the repurchase program that was authorized by our Board of Directors last year with expectations to repurchase at least $100 in spot this year.
For reference we indicated that this $100 million would be executed via a 10b5-1 plan.
We are also maintaining a steady dividend payout as a further sign of our commitment to returning capital to shareholders.
In 2016 our use of capital or operational needs includes ongoing CapEx requirements and increased internal investments to aid the company's long-term growth.
I want to reiterate our commitment to growing the top line.
We intend to accomplish this by prudently reinvesting in the business increasing R&amp;D spending and focusing on future organic growth in addition to supplement this internal growth which we expect to ramp up beginning in 2017 with strategic acquisitions.
Our acquisition efforts have increased as we look to offset some of the top line strain the industry is experiencing as a result of oil and gas weakness.
Having said that we're being selective especially in this market.
We want to ensure that we find the correct strategic fit and grow along with a fair price and acceptable operational metrics.
We would prefer to execute a deal that will immediately contribute to our long-term profitability expectations and will not be dilutive to our financial metrics.
We believe this long-term focus will continue to reward our shareholders.
In summary 2015 certainly had its share of challenges and bright spots with none brighter than the receipt of a new AP1000 order.
In 2016 we will continue to experience some headwinds in our industrial businesses based on continued low oil prices and the uncertain economic environment.
Despite some lingering top line challenges and as noted on the chart we expect a pretty solid margin expansion and strong free cash flow generation.
Based on Curtiss-Wright's diversification across a wide variety of end markets and geographies we hope to mitigate most of those declines with solid growth in our defense and our end markets.
As Glenn noted we expect 70 to 90 basis points in operating margin expansion in 2016 up to a range of 14% to 14.2%.
This reflects our team's continued strong execution and focus on driving synergies and producing significant cost savings all supporting the One Curtiss-Wright vision.
As a reminder we are aiming to reach and then maintain our position in the top quartile of our peer group for all of our long-term financial metrics.
We are also maintaining our continued commitment to return capital to shareholders through steady share repurchases.
All of these factors play a role in our long-term strategy focused on delivering solid financial results to drive value for our stockholders and we remain excited for the future.
At this time I'd like to open up today's conference call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] our first question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning thanks.
Good morning Myles.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Thanks for the level of detail.
I'm not sure you left any stone unturned here but I'm going to try anyway.
So in 2015 the pension contribution you made I imagine you benefited on the tax side of the ledger or is the tax deductibility benefit coming through in 2016? The reason I ask is it would seem to me the sequential improvement in cash flow is more significant than 3% to 10% you are showing in the slide if you benefited from the tax deductibility of the pension contribution last year.
Yes actually we elected to take the contribution on the prior year return.
So it did flow through when we filed the return in 2015 we took it on 2014 return and I think you see that flowing through in the fourth quarter as part of that came through in the fourth quarter.
And basically the impact was reducing giving us a higher manufacturing deduction.
And the working capital metric as you finished the year can you give us what - where it hits and then kind of where you are thinking it is going to hit at the end of 2016? Yes I would say from 2014 we've come down about I'm sorry from 2015 to 2016 we expect it to improve 180 points.
We ended up 2015 at 25.4% and we're projecting 2016 to be at 23.6% and again that's part of our journey towards top quartile.
Right now it is about approximately 20%.
It fluctuates up and down a little bit and at which time we do the calculation.
But continuing to make improvements and continuing our journey and you're seeing it in our cash flow in 2016 and 2015 as well.
One on cash the CapEx of the business looks like you've kind of moved from where it was at 3.5% to 4% of sales was CapEx the last five to seven years up until this past year 2015 was pretty light.
2016 the guidance is 2.5% of sales but it sounds like Dave you mentioned there is about $10 million of discretionary.
Are you just in a business now that's a lot less cap intensive going forward or is there some sort of holiday? Well a couple of things one you know we've said back on investor day this is another metric we were going to try to achieve top quartile which is around 2% so part of it is that.
And then a lot of the companies were divested for capital investments.
So that's a fundamental change in our capital profile.
2015 was good and it is really nothing other than timing that we know of nothing major and you see we picked it back up again in 2016 and we do have I think it is $12 million of incremental CapEx for facility consolidations in our 2016 number.
Okay Dave one question for you on the capital deployment side obviously you were one of the biggest buyers on stock across the industrial complex on a relative basis in 2015 and you've got a $100 million built into the plan.
It sounds like you're still looking for more bolt-on transactions which I think by your definition are several hundred million dollars.
Can you give us an update on the pipeline of the types of deals.
I think the last time we spoke it was valves and sensors that were kind of higher on a list than not.
Maybe you could just update us on the pipeline? Yes Myles with all the cash that we're generating we're really excited about the opportunity that is going to give us from balancing – location plant and especially in the area of acquisitions I have personally gone out and looked at a couple recently and things we've been finding and they are still primarily some $100 million that is the key driver but that's been sort of what we've been looking at.
And more recently what we have found are the links or ties to some of the oil and gas debacle is taking place and with the sort of outlook that we have in the industry at large is to not knowing when this is going to end necessarily that’s in the case of those that have a link to that particular marketplace and this reduced our interest my interest in particular.
So we do like defense side we continue to like defense strategy and growth in that areas.
We looked at several and we have several that we are looking at right now and particularly as I have said before the C4ISR kind of marketplace.
And we think that that's going to continue to grow and it will be an exciting area for our sensors.
Always I think that what we have found is that we have demonstrated our ability to acquire integrate consolidate rationalize and so forth the build in most importantly almost a one plus one equals three approach by taking the sensors and the technologies and product lines and whatever that we will acquire and putting those into our bigger themes.
For example own the cabin there that's own the cab a strategy that's a larger offering to major manufacturers OEMs for example large and medium sized trucks.
So we like those so we're fairly specific about what sensors we go after we're not after the commodity types.
And you mentioned valves I have talked about that many times.
I like valves I just don’t like oil and gas related valves right now you know the severe service type is what we produce and we do very well in that regard.
We continue to look at those as they come up.
So I would say the pipeline has got plenty in it to look at.
We weed out those that are tied to some of the more negative aspects of some of the business constraints that we all see out there right now.
Okay.
All right thanks guys.
Thanks Myles.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Ciabattoni with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks good morning.
Hi Kevin.
Good morning Kevin.
Start off here with a couple on AP1000 I guess obviously saw a nice increase in pricing there up to the $28 million per RCP.
What's kind of the outlook going forward for pricing as you go after new orders? And maybe talk a little bit about kind of what the pipeline looks like at this point? Yes the pipeline I'll start with that we’re tremendously excited about what that opportunity is and so excited I wanted to put in our script and that was that we’re looking at over the next 8 to 10 years that market opportunity in China alone is there has been described publically has being on the order of 88 units.
And you do the math like I did in my script that’s $2.5 billion and so we believe that the market opportunity is absolutely fantastic.
And in the ten years is not long term to me I mean that’s right around the corner in terms of the period of time it takes to place an order build these things and ship them out.
So that’s really great news for us.
I think in terms of the pricing strategy and so forth while I wouldn’t be able to talk about it specifically even if I had a lot of detail here but what we will go through is will be based largely upon when the next order will be placed.
For example what sort of inflation escalation we might see what sort of labor cost we might be seeing at that time and projected forward during the build cycle.
As indicated these things are 40 months plus long in the build cycle so we'd take that into consideration what we think labor rates and commodity rates and pricing and so forth will be the metals and so forth that are used in these products and then the quantity.
So it was very dependant $28 million we indicated was very dependent on quantity order.
Had we received a larger order they would have been less expensive and receive smaller order they would have been more expensive and that’s just a dynamic of quantity pricing like that.
But we’re very pleased with that order and I think that it is going to bode us well it will bode our shareholders very well.
And so I don’t think that we will be deviating in any way from the pricing strategy that we that deployed in this order on future orders.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess along those same lines you mentioned on the new order there was the assumption of a parallel order placed with a domestic Chinese producer.
Could there be potential opportunities longer-term if the Chinese are unable to kind of keep up with production or if they run into roadblocks et cetera for you guys to step in there? We have a very strong working relationship with our Chinese customer and our domestic customer and I will say this it has taken Curtiss-Wright over 50 years to get to the capability that we presently have to build reactor coolant pumps.
And this is the largest of its kind in the world and most complex in the world and everybody on this call and everybody listening knows the grief that we went through in getting these out the door and finally having been able to say that we have a fully qualified unit that will last 60 years without interruption.
So yes I think Kevin suffice it to say it was very difficult very tenuous all the way along.
And we do stand ready to help in any possible way that we can and we will help as needed and we're not we don’t wish ill on anybody.
We certainly do what we can like I said we'll be there and we do look forward to much more business for many many years to come.
Okay thanks.
And then last one for me just shifting to the commercial aerospace side.
And I apologize; I jumped on a little late so if you covered this.
It sounded like Airbus with the wings moving it was probably the biggest piece in the guidance the lower revenue guidance for next year or for this year rather.
Is there any opportunity for you guys to kind of backfill that in terms of business in Europe? And are there any other significant - it sounds like Boeing is going to be flat - any other significant declines in commercial aero that we should be looking at? We don’t really look at any other foreseeable major declines 747 we know where that’s going and is indicated the 737 up is a little it is offset a little bit by the 747.
We do work internally by the way when we started negotiating with Airbus on this Korean delivery as I indicated on prior calls we were asked if we were interested in that and because of the low margin that we would have expected and the tremendously large capital requirement to even ramp up and facilitate in a country like that that we decided to not do that program and so we began at that time looking at fill in business in aerospace in particular there we could backfill this business with.
From a one perspective it was fortunate for us that it dragged from 2015 into 2016 so now we'll deal with it in 2016 but that gave us a little more time to pick up other good acquisitions that we had placed into our Surface Technologies segment and other division and that division is producing continuously producing a great margin and so we continue to look for other opportunities there to acquire and place into that as well as of course organic opportunities.
We continue to bid many different platforms and we will always do that but it's hard to find a direct replacement fill in for that single order work that we were doing there.
This happens very frequently by the way that we will find a customer will move from one site across the country to another or around the world we normally will follow them if the margins are good for us and if it meets our expectations internally and we just like this case it didn’t.
So we're used to this sort of movement rather than the fact that this happened was a fairly large piece then and we do had to react and I think we’re doing a really good job of that.
So I think you will see over the next several years us building back to what we had lost in that case and specifically but with good products with good margins.
Okay thanks.
Thanks Kevin.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kristine Liwag with BofA Merrill Lynch.
Hey guys good morning Good morning Kristine.
Good morning.
Dave in your prepared remarks you highlighted the 22 AP1000 reactors over the next 8 to 10 years.
Can you discuss your capacity to build these RCPs and what's the run rate of production you can support without adding more CapEx? We could easily support that quantity.
The run rate currently is about 24 units that we can handle on annual basis that's pretty much driven by our test loop and that’s a constraint that any manufacture would have to contend with and if we all fell under this wonderful world of AP1000s all over the place I think that it would even more so highlight the fact that the ability for facilities to be able to manufacture to the level of need would be I’d say very dependent on multiple sources.
And I think that’s true in China Chinese credit in terms of establishing another because I think that once we get into this full rate production and once Sanmen 1 and 2 get turned on I believe others 3 and 4 on an on will start to see the benefit and that will hopefully in our parlance unleash some additional orders that will drive that but right now we’re at 24 before having to do anything else.
And in our we visited our test loop just a couple of weeks ago it is up in Pittsburgh and we're up and running and what we were putting through that facility right now just really is a very key indicator to our ability to handle 24 and potentially more so it’s a smooth running machine up there right now.
Great.
And you've discussed the cadence of revenue related to the program.
Should we think about cash flow to fall in line to that revenue recognition curve? Kristine the cash flow is going to a little bit trickier and we don’t have that projection nailed down yet.
They are still going through all analysis of milestone timings and all that kind of stuff though I can’t really I can’t tell you one way or the other right now.
Sure.
And one last question from me regarding your balance sheet.
You guys are now investment-grade.
You are generating a lot of cash next year.
And then also even with the share repurchase you have earmarked for 2016 that's still a lot of cash that you are generating.
Can you talk about the M&amp;A pipeline and then what you are looking for and maybe what’s preventing you from closing deals today if its lack of available options is it evaluation can you provide a little bit more color there? Sure Kristine I think the evaluations certainly evaluation of the properties that we look at plays a significant factor.
As I said in my remarks we look for – we don’t look for deals we look for deals that reflect some operational metrics that we have internally.
Op margin for example we don’t want dilution when accretive first year and so forth size sub $100 million has been the course that we’ve been running for the last several years we continue in that vein.
We do look at larger ones as they come up and so sub $100 million isn't cast in stone.
But any property has to complement what we’re doing in a very strong way and I’m not looking for fourth leg of the stool from a perspective of and winning something new for this company.
We feel very comfortable in the breadth of markets that we reached today with our product lines and extra sensor company that might place into and complement some of these sensors that we provide today.
From a system perspective would be tremendous for us.
I’ve talked in the past on valves anything that is not associated right now with the oil and gas area that we don’t need any more of that and we’re pleased with our civil service valves we have today but they have been interrupted somewhat by the markets at large.
So I would continue to look at that valve area but very specifically.
In a pipeline wise we do look at every month we look at new opportunities I visited a few of them as I indicated a few minutes ago on the call I visited a few companies and we backed out of one more recently as a result of the tie in or the link that that particular business head towards the oil and gas sector and it was an uncertain future.
And it’s hard to put a valuation on a company like that but you can give them a price but it’s going to be an embarrassingly low price because there is no real solid outlook in the company like that.
So we watch that sort of thing.
But our eyes are wide open we do receive inputs we are out there searching for new opportunities all the time.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Kristine.
Thanks Kristine.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Cassil with Seaport Global.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Ryan.
Good morning Ryan.
So on the AP1000 if things ramp up as you say in terms of the market opportunity that's out there and China's expectations to grow their nuclear program could we expect orders - additional orders to come here in 2016? Realistically I don't know but I will tell you that my guess would be like I indicated that Sanmen 1 and 2 need to get online and for that plant to proven out if I’m in the customer shoes if I’m in China and I’m saying look I want to feel really comfortable about I'm talking about nuclear reactors at large I’m not talking about AP1000 because we know that works.
I'm talking about the plant itself.
If I were an energy company in China I would say look I'd like to see this thing up and running before I really commit some extra monies and or at least in a long a certain path to success that I can feel comfortable enough to put my money down on because these are long lead items our pumps alone.
To build a nuclear reactor you can only imagine how long lead those are.
So I believe that until and unless they start to see which they are beginning to see now that we placed pumps in the ground until and unless they start to see some proof of the pudding then I would think that they would want to wait a little bit.
So when does that happen well probably my suspicion would be next year some time that unit will be turned on and that unit being the plants.
So Sanmen 1 and 2 and then once those are I think people are going to feel pretty darn good about what's going on.
Is it going to be turned on before that? I don’t know I just don’t have that sort of visibility.
Okay.
Okay great thanks.
And then just looking at the industrial valves business could you talk a little bit about pricing whether that's been under further pressure or whether you think that has stabilized? And then also whether you’ve seen any change in downstream activity in 2016 given that utilization rates have come in a little bit.
Yes we've seen a little bit of pricing pressure.
It started to raise its ugly head let’s say mid to late last year and we started to see competitors trying to drive into different areas and they were not prior into.
That's just a natural result of everybody trying to eat the remaining pieces of the pie.
Fortunately we do civil service valves which are – they are very niche oriented and they require qualifications and all sorts of certifications for their operational characteristics because if one of these things fail then a plant can blow up.
I mean we are talking some really serious stuff that goes on here.
So we feel pretty comfortable in some of the areas that we found that sort of competition.
In another words I’m saying it’s extremely hard to second source this stuff but I think for the most part yes there has been little bit when we see that kind of changing I’m not sure when that is going to happen.
It’s all really largely dependent upon this oil and gas situation.
Okay.
Okay great.
Last one for me just thinking a little bit bigger-picture.
I know you don't want to give exact long-term margin targets at this point.
But just kind of putting the pieces together I think you talked about $10 million in annualized savings from some restructuring you're doing in commercial/industrial.
You expect a couple million across each segment over time and from lean initiatives.
And then you are going to be layering in what sounds like 20%-plus margin business here in the nuclear side.
Do you think it's possible that down the road we could see margins close to the high teens consolidated? I mean we have a lot of different things going on as we have for the past three years so and you see how we have progressed.
I mean I couldn't say it's not possible but I would say it is one thing we are pretty sure we started doing again this year is reinvesting back into the company and specifically R&amp;D and some other technologies to foster organic growth.
And will our margins improve? Yes we were still committed to it as Dave said but we’re also not trying to lean under server to be in the top docile I wanted t be top of our peer group unless we can continue to look forward to invest back in the company and that is going to be part of our strategy going forward as well.
So we got balance to do.
You know one aspect of it that is really critical to understand and recall if you have followed us and if you watched what we do and I have referenced in my prepared remarks it was what we did in the defense side we were very proactive in the cost take outs and other areas that we started getting the feeling very early on prior to sequestration debacle that came about and we started making moves to really improve the margin in that area and we have done the same thing here where you’ve seen now o verbalizing what we are doing in 2016 with regard to consolidation.
These were plans that now we're working and we will effect those in 2016 and they will have – there will be more effect to us from our margin operational profitability in the years to come but you’re seeing that now in this year as we’re going to spend like I was talking about $5 million or $6 million and maybe $10 million plus a yield on that.
That’s just the way the culture is here at this company and I'm proud of it.
We've done an excellent job with that and one other thing I just want to mention that I fail to do so on the last question you had on with regard to margin on valves what we see there with that let’s say the competitive pricing it’s not a material number.
So it’s not nearly as large as you might think it is present but we are able to offset that by some of the other goodness we have out of similar other divisions.
Okay.
Great thanks guys.
Thanks Ryan.
Thank you.
And we have one last question from the line of Steve Levenson with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning everybody.
Hey good morning Steve.
Just a question on the certification of the reactor coolant pumps and I know there were some obstacles to it.
For the Chinese in-country producer of the pumps what is the certifying entity and what sort of timetable – and I don't know if you can estimate what sort of timetable they have but maybe you can relate it to how long it took you to get everything certified? Thanks.
Well it took us several years from certified you’re talking about qualified RCP right? Right.
Yes they have their – the Chinese have their own version of our nuclear regulatory committee in China… NNSA.
I think it’s is NNSA and they will regulate they do all certifications and so forth.
So at the point level they will obviously be doing that we believe at the manufacturer level the company that will attempt to manufacture an RCP will attempt to qualify it and that will be qualified I’m assuming much the same as what we did and that was via our customer who watched and witnessed and recorded and so forth and so that takes a period of time.
I don’t know what their timeline is on it.
I just don't have any idea.
We do know that the general – the power companies that are acquiring these pumps want them as quickly as they can get them.
And we intend to get them to them as quickly as we can so there is a great demand over there for this product and we are in a super opportunity to really do a super job and we intend to do so.
Got it thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you.
I’m not showing any further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Dave and Adams for any further remarks.
Thanks Andrea and thank you all for joining us today.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our first quarter 2016 earnings call.
Have a great day.
Bye-bye now.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.