Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Developers Diversified Realty Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jasmine and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host to Ms.
Kate Deck Investor Relations Director.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from President and CEO Dan Hurwitz Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer David Oakes and Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe that such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand that statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release dated April 27 2011.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at ddr.com.
Lastly we will be observing a 2-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Kate.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter earnings conference call.
With our earnings released yesterday evening I don't want to spend too much time rehashing information that you've already reviewed in our release or our supplemental.
Rather I'd like to begin today by highlighting our continued progress with regard to our portfolio management strategy and expand upon the March 31 press release that summarized our first quarter disposition and acquisition activity.
While our first quarter transactional activity of $43 million in non-prime asset sales and the acquisition of 2 prime properties from our joint venture partners for $40 million is indicative of our strategy to recycle capital from non-prime into prime the overall impact on portfolio quality should not go unnoticed.
Over the past 5 quarters we executed over 80 transactions and disposed of more than $800 million of non-prime assets.
These assets averaged about 79% leased and on average were about 100 000 square feet of GLA per asset.
The top 3 MSAs in which we sold assets were Atlanta where we are actively looking to lower our exposure to lower quality assets Detroit and Buffalo.
Some of the top tenants that occupied these assets by GLA and number of units were Kmart Tops and Rite Aid.
In comparison our top 3 tenants within the prime portfolio by GLA are Wal-Mart Target and Kohl's.
Moreover as we sit today on a 7-mile radius average household income in our prime portfolio is $78 000 per household population density is over 335 000 people.
This represents a 5% to 20% increase over the non-prime assets sold within the past 5 quarters.
A 7-mile radius is the appropriate measurement for our asset class given the size of the assets regional draw and tenant mix.
For informational purposes our prime assets average 305 000 square feet of GLA which in addition to the retailers that occupy these assets confirms that they service a more regional trade area.
While our strategy is not simply addition by subtraction it is important to emphasize the impact of non-prime assets on the calculation of NOI derived from the prime portfolio.
As a result in 2009 our prime portfolio produced 70% of our NOI.
By 2010 year end we achieved 83.3% and today we stand at 86.7%.
Just to reiterate 86.7% of our current NOI comes from prime assets that average over 305 000 square feet of GLA and benefit from average household incomes of $78 000 and average population of over 335 000 people.
We are encouraged by the success we have had in upgrading the quality of our portfolio and note there will be additional opportunities for further enhancement going forward and the significant numbers that I just presented will only get better over time.
Given the progress we have made with our balance sheet and the flexibility provided by a more competitive cost of capital we are carefully underwriting a range of potential acquisition opportunities of prime assets.
Our pipeline includes value add stabilized prime assets and loan-to-own opportunities that could include the origination of mezzanine debt or the purchase of a senior note at a discount on prime assets.
We have successfully sourced attractive opportunities that fit our selective requirements but remain prudent in our underwriting and bidding practices.
As a result we will likely lose more bids than we win but we are confident that we can find attractive opportunities to redeploy asset sale proceeds allowing us to grow and simultaneously reduce operating risk by continuing to improve portfolio quality.
This is primarily achievable through a combination of internal and external growth aggressive dispositions and selective acquisitions all of which are top of mind on a daily basis.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Paul.
Thank you Dan.
I'd like to spend a little time today talking about one of the topics getting a lot of attention recently that being the potential downsizing of retailearnings relea space but first let me review what was another highly productive quarter.
Our domestic leased rate increased by 10 basis points from 92.3% at year end to 92.4%.
This represents a 110 basis point increase over the first quarter of 2010.
Including Brazil our blended leased rate is now 92.6%.
These results compare favorably to the historic average decline of 20 basis points in the first quarter due to the seasonal nature of tenant fallout and lease expirations versus commencements.
We remain confident in our ability to achieve an occupancy rate above 93% by year end 2011 consistent with our guidance.
Overall in the first quarter we completed 428 deals for 2.6 million square feet with a combined spread of 5.4% up from negative 2.7% in Q1 of '10.
These spreads are consistent with our combined spread of 5.4% in the fourth quarter of 2010 and are a dramatic improvement from the year ago numbers.
As we discussed on Investor Day spreads are important but they only tell part of the story.
We believe average first year rents on new deals are  a better leading indicator of leasing trends.
The average first year rent for all new deals completed in the quarter was $14.17 per square foot up from $12.80 per square foot in the first quarter of '10.
It's important to note that this growth has been achieved with lower CapEx on a per square foot basis for these new deals.
I'd now like to take a few minutes to talk about an issue that has been getting quite a bit of attention lately and that is the trend toward smaller stores and what that means to the landlord community.
First we shouldn't confuse a retailers' ability to operate in smaller stores as a rush to downsize their entire portfolio nor that it can happen overnight.
There is a clear distinction between the categories and the retailers that have learned they can be flexible in size and merchandise offering and those that simply have too much space.
For the retailers that are exhibiting flexibility this is not an indication that their entire portfolio is oversized and in need of downsizing to be competitive.
What it does show is that they are strong retailers with the ability to compete in a variety of store sizes in a variety of diverse markets.
Moreover the desire for a smaller prototype should not be viewed as a trend toward reducing store count.
As industry leasing numbers indicate demand for new stores is still extremely high even with the changes to prototype and footprint.
For those specific retail groups [ph] and categories that do require less space to be productive it is clearly in our best interest to have them appropriately sized.
Greater productivity and smaller stores result in a more successful shopping center with a greater ability to drive brands.
But size changes are not always easily achievable.
So the question becomes can and how do we work together to achieve a win-win situation.
If the tenant is willing to participate in the cost to downsize and we are left with leasable space we can usually reach agreements on a business deal with the result being a more productive retailer and the opportunity for upside on the existing rent for the reduced space as well as upside on the new rent in the residual space.
However if the tenant is not willing to contribute or we are left with unleasable space we have a very different situation.
In that scenario the things we will take into account include the probability of the retailer relocating our ability to backfill the space should they do so and most importantly whether it is a good store for the retailer.
First and foremost retailers are in the retail business and not the real estate business.
Retailers do not close successful and profitable stores.
It's much easier to lose market share then to gain it and retailers know that better than anyone.
Put simply given today's supply and demand dynamic and tenant thirst for external growth most retailers feel greater risk in losing market share than landlords do in re-tenanting potentially vacant box space.
So to summarize there's a lot of buzz about retailers downsizing their stores.
What is the reality? Would retailers always like to be at their ideal size? Yes.
Do we want retailers at their ideal size? Yes when the deal makes sense.
Is their ideal size a constantly moving target which makes this more difficult? Yes.
Is that why relationships and platform matter? Clearly.
Are retailers in a position to demand size adjustments in every situation? Absolutely not.
Are landlords at risk of losing every oversized space in the near future? Not at all.
And are most of our top retailers still growing overall store count and square footage? Absolutely.
At the end of the day it's clearly better for both tenant and landlord to have smaller more highly productive stores.
We like tenants that produce higher sales per square foot higher profit per square foot and have dramatically increased inventory turn.
As a result we will continue to work with our tenants to achieve the desired end result but execution relies entirely on the logic of the proposed deal.
And I'd now like to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $63.2 million or $0.24 per share for the 3 months ended March 31 2011 which is in line with our expectations.
Including certain non-operating items which were net gains this quarter FFO for the quarter was $89.1 million.
The non-operating items relate primarily to gains resulting from acquisitions of our partners' interest in 2 high-quality properties and a noncash gain on the equity derivative instruments relating to the final evaluation of the Otto Family warrants before they were exercised partially offset by a charge related to the termination agreement exercised with our former executive chairman.
I would like to reiterate that in regard to the Otto warrants the family had the option to exercise their warrants in a cashless fashion but instead executed a cash exercise where they invested $60 million more into DDR shares and effectively purchased over 3 million shares at the then current market price.
We greatly appreciate the continued support and confidence that this highly sophisticated investor has shown in our company and in our direction.
At this point in the year we remain comfortable with our 2011 operating FFO guidance of $0.90 to $1.05 per share and continue to believe that this relatively wide range provides us flexibility to opportunistically accelerate additional refinancing and capital recycling activities.
Now turning to our recent capital markets activity.
The first quarter was one of continued progress in our efforts to improve our balance sheet and we are very encouraged by the impact this has had on our cost of capital most notably our 4.75% $300 million 7-year bond issuance in early March.
Also we issued 9.5 million shares of common stock pursuant to a forward sale agreement that we executed on March 1.
The proceeds received from the equity issuance plus the $60 million from the Otto Family warrants exercise were primarily used to fund the redemption of $180 million of 8% Class G preferred shares.
We are aggressively executing our long-term plan to reduce debt to EBITDA and extend duration and we're please with the reaction from the rating agencies thus far.
Just recently Moody's affirmed our investment grade credit rating and raised its outlook to stable highlighting our considerable progress in improving our balance sheet and operations.
In late February S&amp;P also raised its outlook on DDR to stable and raised the rating on our senior notes from double-D to double-D plus.
We expect progress to continue as we strive for consensus investment grade ratings.
During the quarter our joint venture Sonae Sierra Brasil completed an initial public offering of common shares resulting in gross proceeds of BRL 465 million.
While we still own 1/3 of the company and are excited about future prospects we have dramatically improved DDR's risk profile by creating a liquidity option plus dramatically improved Sonae Sierra Brasil's access to capital.
We have no plans to sell our shares but we do appreciate the long-term flexibility that comes with such liquidity.
We will continue to be very focused on opportunistic refinancing despite minimum near-term maturities and high credit line availability.
Based upon the strong market conditions that exist today we expect to address our 2012 debt well before maturity.
The recent improvement in our outlook from the rating agencies lowered the interest cost on our $550 million term loan from LIBOR plus 120 basis points to LIBOR plus 88 basis points and we expect to make further strides in lowering our overall cost of capital and extending our duration.
At March 31 our weighted average debt maturity was 4.2 years a significant improvement from 3.4 years at the end of last year's first quarter and nearly all of the $1 billion capacity on our corporate credit facility is available.
As you can see DDR is a much better balanced company and we operate with substantially less risks today than at any time in recent years.
This has allowed us to actively pursue external growth opportunities for which we are very enthusiastic.
As Dan mentioned earlier our ability to recycle non-prime asset sale proceeds into prime acquisitions provides us with an opportunity to upgrade the overall quality of our portfolio on a risk-adjusted and balance sheet-positive basis.
Some of you may have seen that we recently renewed our aftermarket common equity program for $200 million.
We have benefited from the flexibility and efficiency of this program in the past which is a primary reason that we have renewed it but currently we have no plans to use it.
We will continue to work aggressively to improve our balance sheet and upgrade the portfolio and at this point we do not expect any new common equity to be required to accomplish these objectives.
One last point before I turn the call back to Dan regarding our Investor Relations function.
Recently we decided that Tim Lordan would assume responsibility for our Investor Relations efforts.
As you know Tim currently oversees our Funds Management Program and many of you know him from his time at The Rouse Company.
Kate Deck will continue in her role as Director of Investor Relations and we expect this change will only enhance analyst and investor coverage of DDR and offer consistent and transparent access and disclosure.
This change will allow Francine Glandt to focus her time exclusively on the continued execution of our capital market strategy.
We're excited to have Tim take on more responsibility and we look forward to the additional contributions he will bring to the company.
At this point I'll turn the call back to Dan for closing remarks.
Thank you David and before turning the call over to questions and answers I'd like to take a moment to thank those of you who attended our Investor Day in March or listened to the management presentation via the webcast.
As a management team we appreciate your continued support and interest in our story and hope that you found our presentations to be worthwhile.
In addition to the information we shared with you at Investor Day by now you should have received a copy of our 2010 annual report.
We understand that annual reports do not provide the most current financial or operational information given the production timeline.
However we believe the annual report is an important representation of our enterprise and as such we took a different approach to our annual report and letter to shareholders than years past.
I hope you find the tone and content of the annual report to be consistent with your expectations based upon the direction we have been taking the company in articulating to the market.
As always I look forward to your feedback at your convenience.
At this time we would be happy to answer your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Paul thanks for the comments on the potential downsizing issue.
I just wanted to question.
I mean we often hear that the increase of the Internet business is the reason for the downsizing.
But are there other reasons right now we're seeing this downsizing or should we expect it to be kind of focused on those categories that are doing pretty strong Internet business? I think the focus Craig should be on those categories that are impacted by the Internet business but I'll give you another example that I don't believe is impacted by the Internet business that would be Old Navy.
We aren't seeing a lot of the apparel retailers look to downsize but that's a clear case of a company that just got way ahead of itself with oversized stores throughout the 90s that the early 2000s and now they're realizing that there's a smaller prototype that's right for their merchandise mix.
But I think in general terms the focus is on those categories such as the office product guys and electronics where we'll see more of the downsizing.
And in your discussion with retailers are they remaining focused on margin or market share at this point now or is there any shift in those 2 priorities? Clearly both priorities.
I mean market share is what's going to drive margin at the end of the day.
Interestingly I think we're seeing some things we've talked a lot over the past year or so about commodity price increases.
We're seeing the good retailers maintain and improve their margins even in light of those price increases.
But typically market share is going to drive margin.
Any increased market share will drive margin Craig.
So that's the first focus but they're both critical to retailers.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Sri Nagarajan from FBR.
I just wanted to follow up on the earlier question and your remarks Paul in terms of the oversized retailer and the landlord particularly not in danger of losing space immediately what are the tenant options today on being oversized? And obviously as you look at it from a pure analyst perspective how is it now going to affect overall fundamentals in rent outlooks in the future? Well one of the key points I was trying to make was that it is not as easy as it seems and that's one of the reasons we were emphasizing it on today's call.
A couple of years ago or let's go back even a little further when development was plentiful that's an easier environment within which to thread in if you're the retailer the relocation to a competing site we can now get our prototype at a fair rent.
That and as I mentioned on the call the dynamic of no new development and available space being absorbed quite quickly doesn't give them a lot of options.
So the reality is that we're going to try to work together because it's in both of our best interests but if we can't we are expecting that they will take their option renew in their current size and we're seeing that in quite a few examples where there's no effective way to do it they're not going to close the store they don't have an alternative and that's what it really gets down to.
Look it's up to us to use our best judgment to figure out exactly what the best situation is with each situation and decide which way we're going with it but they're not going to close stores that are good even if they can't get to their perfect size.
That's really the point.
I think that's probably the most important point is that retailers today in particular can't afford to close profitable stores for a variety of different reasons.
Number one is you have to replace the volume and if you don't replace the volume in some way the impact on your indirect charges and the profitability of the other stores that you have in that market is going to be dramatic.
So if it's a profitable store if it's a growing store retailers will not close it.
They will leverage real estate as best they can to try to reduce their operating expenses so they can expand their margin but at the end of the day the real estate doesn't make the decision on whether that store should be open or not.
It's the market share and the profitability and if the market share is there and the profitability is there we're very confident that retailers won't use that as leverage to close the stores.
Now we face that discussion everyday and we look at the threats of closing stores every day and very very rarely very rarely has a tenant who said "If I can't reduce the size of my store unless I'm not going to renew my option " very rarely do they not then ultimately pick up the option at the last minute and continue to operate a profitable store.
Sri to address one of the specific items in your question I don't think our comment is that this is something we don't expect to have an impact on rents over time.
We do in fact expect it to impact rents over time and we expect that impact to be positive.
When the discussions occur with these retailers they have a certain volume that they expect for a store and whether they can get their exact footprint or not they're multiplying that volume times their occupancy costs and that's the amount of rent they can pay and you really are ending up with a situation where we would expect sales per square foot and rents per square foot to be higher if they're operating in a more efficient size for them.
That's very helpful color thanks.
And my second question is on leasing spreads for the rest of the year.
I mean obviously do you guys feel that 1Q was a little bit higher? And from a leasing mix perspective is it going to be a little bit lesser over the rest of the year? Sri I think what you're going to see is that there'll be some movement in the new deal spread.
We're very comfortable that it will remain positive.
The more important spread as we look at it is the renewal spread and I would feel very good about it.
We went through several quarters of negative or flat spreads on our renewals we've now had a few quarters in a row of 3% to 4% renewal spreads positive and that's where we see that being pretty much at floor.
We'll be in that 3% 3% up 3% and up range on the renewals.
You'll see movement in the new deals spread but we're confident in what we're seeing and what we've seen over the last couple of quarters that it'll remain positive.
You're not going to always see it at a 9% rate in any quarter and I don't want to indicate that we expect that quarter-to-quarter but I would expect positive results on the new deal spreads also.
That's helpful I'll join back the line.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Dan you gave some statistics on obviously the non-prime portfolio sales the $800 million and 79% leased.
As you look at the sort of bottom 14% of the remaining portion that is yet to be completed how much of an impact do you expect that to have on sort of your average household income population densities and even just overall occupancy? A lot of it because we're a national company and we're spread pretty far and our non-prime portfolio basically goes coast-to-coast.
Some of the impact on those numbers is pretty diverse.
But I think what we anticipate is that on the income side non-prime generally is about a good 10% less than where we are on prime.
And in many cases on the population it's 20% to 25% less.
And that's pretty consistent.
Now that's across a large portfolio so a lot will depend on a quarter-to-quarter basis on the timing of those sales but I think you could pretty well assume that the income side is going to be in the low double digits and the population should be somewhere in that 20% range plus.
And Jay where that impact can be even larger in the way some people look at the stats not exactly the way we look at the stats but the way some of the reports get published.
When you weight it by the number of assets if we eliminate the non-prime assets you get an elimination of that 10% to 20% lower demographic on close to 50% of your assets.
If you weight it the way we normally think about it and what we think is economically appropriate it may only amount to 14% of the portfolio today and so you get 14% times that 10% to 20% improvement.
But for the way they announce this is oftentimes done and published where your equal weighting it by asset the impact on our overall portfolio demographics relative to what's published in many of those reports could get considerably better because the simple number of assets is high even though the NOI contribution is quite small.
Okay so that's helpful.
And then just thinking about you mentioned addressing some 2012 debt earlier than expected.
I mean clearly the term loan jumps out that $550 million.
Can you give us some sense as you think about the deleveraging and obviously the pace of asset sales and then also just tying in the acquisition opportunities you mentioned as well? Yes.
At this point there's a clear focus on addressing some of the 2012 debt maturities.
Quite early the bank market is very strong at this point and I think we have a high degree of confidence in our ability to refinance that for well in excess of the proceeds that are outstanding and maturing today.
Our goal obviously as we've articulated previously is to continue to improve our leverage stats to continue to have less exposure to short-term debt to continue to have less exposure to bank debt.
And so I think as we proceed with that refinancing you should expect to see nothing larger than the size today and probably something overall that somewhat lowers our exposure to short-term bank debt but exclusively at our option rather than at the option of the banks.
In terms of deleveraging I think when we think about the progress going forward primarily thinking about it on a debt to EBITDA basis we would expect dramatically more of the improvement going forward to come from the EBITDA growth side rather than the debt reduction side.
So not looking at raising equity to pay down debt and not looking at redeploying asset sale proceeds into debt paydown more of those proceeds are being used exclusively for the acquisition efforts that we talked about earlier.
So it really will be more debt-for-debt when we think about the refinancing activity for 2012 although we'd still firmly expect credit metrics to improve based on rising EBITDA and the monetization of some of the non-income producing assets.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
Dan as you talk to your tenants in the reports it sounds like Wal-Mart is taking a hit on their customer base from higher gas prices.
Are you hearing any impact from higher gas prices from any other of your tenants? And if not how do you think that the consumer the average consumer is absorbing $4-plus gas and still shopping? I think that's a great question.
The short answer is where we are hearing some concern from tenants it's not necessarily on sales but on margin because the cost of distribution has gone up dramatically and as you know as Paul mentioned there has been some commodity price increases that many retailers have not been able to pass through to the consumer.
And as you have transportation cost increases as well particularly on moderately priced to discount-priced goods within margins to begin with in some cases the cost of distribution becomes a much more significant impact on profitability and margin.
In particular for example if you look at the dollar stores and stores that had a cap in some regard either by name or by philosophy on pricing when you go from $2.50 a gallon to $4 a gallon for delivery but yet you can't really raise your pricing very much it obviously is going to have an impact.
So the deeper the discount the larger the impact.
And that's something that we hear about pretty consistently not having a big impact on sales but could potentially have an impact on margin.
And as far as where do you think -- how do you think the consumer -- what are your customers your tenants telling you where the consumers are taking up that slack? Like how are they absorbing the -- how are they still shopping and still filling up the tank? Well I think one of the things -- in fact we had a couple of tenant meetings this week and one of the things that came out was people are very surprised at how accepting the consumer really has been to a $4 price.
I think some people don't view that as sustainable.
We've been there before and it came back down and I think time will tell whether it's going to stay where it is.
But right now the consumer has been less concerned than most of our retailers thought they would be by inflated gas prices and we'll see what happens through the summer.
I think it'll be -- I think this summer where sales naturally soften will be a good indicator of a future trend.
And then my second question is Paul on the occupancy I think you mentioned the year end target of 93% occupied the December 31 occupied rate was 90.6%.
Can you give some color on first quarter occupancy and how we should think about the quarterly step-up to reaching that 93% target? Sure.
Again for the last few first quarters Alex we've recorded a small increase which is a big deal because as I mentioned in the script historically we see about a 20-basis point hit in the first quarter with the move-outs and expirations versus new commencements.
So the 10-basis point improvement feels good.
The 92.6% includes the Brasil but just looking at the metrics for a second going from 92.3% to 92.4% I think we'll see similar trends to where we've seen in the past 2 years where we've got it just -- it ramps up over the final 3 quarters of the year and again I'm very comfortable with that 93%.
Wait were you talking about leased rate? I was asking about occupied -- occupancy rate? I'm sorry.
Yes that's leased rate yes.
I'm sorry I missed the point.
Yes leased rate and again we actually -- we'll see that spread if you will between occupied and leased decrease over the course of the year.
Not many openings in the first quarter certainly more closings than lease expirations.
So at this point we've got a spread of about 220 basis points between leased rate and those tenants that are signed but not yet open and rent paying.
Second quarter won't be a big quarter to reduce that spread either but then third and fourth you'll see that come down and obviously the number's going to have a direct relationship to how much new leasing we do.
We don't expect it to come down to historic rates in that 50 to 100 basis point range any time soon but you'll see the number shrink over the next few quarters more people come online.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy from UBS.
You talked about potential acquisitions.
How active are you in sourcing new opportunities? Do you have a dollar value in mind as far as what you could potentially target over the next few years? And would you potentially use the ATM to fund the equity portion of future deals or would that be strictly coming from non-core asset sale proceeds? I'd say we are extremely active in reviewing acquisition opportunities today.
That doesn't mean we're extremely active in closing acquisition opportunities today but we are looking at everything that's out there spending a lot of time on that spending a lot of time talking to tenants about what locations do well for them and where we think we might be able to grow rents over time.
And so it is a big focus for us although I would not expect that to translate into a massive volume of acquisition activity.
The reality is it's a very competitive deal cap rates have been pushed significantly lower over the past year and we're not willing to simply run around winning auctions to grow our square footage or our asset base if the economics don't make sense.
So I think you'll continue to see us very disciplined in terms of what we do close on where we think there is an attractive opportunity.
So right now we'd reiterate what we have in our guidance where from a capital recycling program we expect to take disposition proceeds and redeploy those into acquisitions.
Originally we had talked about something in the $100 million range.
I think we would expect that we would feel very comfortable achieving that and might exceed that but would also reiterate that we expect disposition proceeds to fund the acquisitions and would not expect to issue new equity to fund acquisitions at this time.
If we found something particularly attractive I think we'd have to explore that and we'd have to get feedback from investors and analysts about the market's response to that.
But where we stand today we simply don't see opportunities that would encourage us to issue equity simply to grow our size.
The focus has been on the capital recycling side selling non-prime assets and reinvesting those proceeds into prime acquisitions which is obviously a change in tune relative to the past several years where disposition proceeds were funding debt repayment.
Clearly one of the things that's happening also Christy and I think it's going to be very very interesting next month for those of you who are going to RECon in Las Vegas to keep an eye out for this is that cap rate compression is an incredible motivator for those people who own assets to sell assets.
And we are seeing more product now that we've seen in many years quite frankly and stuff that's coming on on the market that we had not expected to even come on the market.
And I think that there's an opportunity that in Las Vegas this year there's going to be a lot of folks shopping their product because they are enticed by what we're all seeing as sort of peak cap rate compression and tight pricing.
And there's a lot of interest and a lot of capital that's resulting in that pricing power.
So I think we're going to see a very very different May convention this year where there's going to be a number of people looking to shop their product and much more so than we've had in the last several years.
Okay and then just following up on leasing spreads could you give us some sense for what the difference in spreads has been in the last quarter or two between space under 10 000 square feet and over 10 000 square feet? Yes Christy.
It's been pretty consistent across the range of sizes but we're seeing more improvement in the smaller space if you will.
It's -- they can achieve higher rents more flexibility in who you can put in there what they can pay.
The box space we continue to see gradual improvement in first-year rent but we're seeing a greater improvement in what we're seeing in the small shelf space and that's really as it's being leased to more national tenants such as the phone companies and the small restaurants and such.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple with Hilliard Lyons.
What new tenants are you seeing come in to your center or new concepts? Not so much in the new concepts in our product type.
We're seeing more flexibility in terms of different store sizes and people that are hitting new markets Carol.
We're seeing some of the -- we talked a little bit about the flexibility and not confusing that with the need to downsize.
So we're seeing some tenants reach into smaller more diverse markets more rural in some cases than they would typically have entered and that's really what we're seeing new in our product type.
We are seeing a few of the folks who were married to mall space such as Kirkland's now very interested in strip center space but not a lot of new concepts.
It's really more maneuvering of existing retailers and what they're doing differently in terms of size and product offering.
And that is something that concerns us.
One of the things that we are concerned about is the lack of new product from a consumer perspective because we -- what would make shopping exciting is when you have new concepts new stores new price points and new vendors coming into the market in a new environment and we don't have a lot of that.
If you walk into one of our centers that's Target/Kohl's anchored in California or one of our centers that's Target/Kohl's anchored in Connecticut they're very similar they're very similar in merchandise mix.
And we would like to see more new concepts because we think the consumer is easily bored by some of the offerings that they see in retail in the United States in general.
The one thing that we have to be very careful about though is that some of the new concepts that have been presented to us we just don't feel are economically feasible.
There are some new concepts out there that many people talk about and some are actually getting very excited about where we just can't seem to understand that the combination of the size the occupancy cost the merchandise mix the margin and the profitability.
And when those cases present themselves to us while we would love to add someone new to our center we're just not willing to take the risk on that merchant.
We've been to that show before and we're not going to go back.
Are you seeing any of your existing tenants like Bed Bath &amp; Beyond had a couple of concepts -- come out with new concepts at this point? No but what we're going to see and we are seeing Carol is that they're going to grow the new concept.
Bed Bath is a great example.
buybuy BABY is a relatively small piece of that business today but tremendous growth opportunity.
Now they're really running with their three concepts the Bed Bath &amp; Beyond the buybuy BABY and the Christmas Tree Shops.
And they actually have one other concept Harmon's which is not a big part of their business.
But what we will see is that's a lot for one company anyway and the fact that they've got a lot of runway left with concepts such as buybuy BABY.
Your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley from Citigroup.
Just in terms of EPNs off of the remaining shares of EDT if EPN is successful in taking the vehicle private are you likely to maintain management of the portfolio and the $3 million to $4 million of management fees that you get? Given where we stand with the bitter statement being released and the Target statement soon to be released there's not much we can say about this situation.
But going back to the original IPO documents our property management and leasing rights are evergreen in nature as long as the trust and the U.S.
manager are in existence.
Okay.
And I'm not sure of what EPN's intentions are and I think they're sort of bidding on an implied cap rate above 9%.
If I were to break up the portfolio and sell parts of it is there a selection of prime assets in there that you would be interested in? There are absolutely a large number of prime assets in there.
But I'm sorry Quentin we really can't speculate on what's going to happen here particularly where we sit with the timeline of disclosures.
Got it.
Maybe one for Dan then.
You commented on looking at prime acquisitions on a loan-to-own basis through mezz or through bank senior loans.
Can you just talk a little bit about sort of the size of the opportunity and how you're going about accessing some of those potential opportunities? Well one of the ways that obviously we're accessing those opportunities is through our lenders.
In many cases we're meeting with our banks who are informing us of situations where they think there could be a potential issue or there is an issue.
And we are looking at some of those assets on a perspective of would we like to own that asset.
If we don't want to -- if we would not be interested in owning the asset we're not going to loan mezz and we're not going to buy the senior note even at a substantial discount.
These have to be assets that we think fit the prime designation and fit it without question.
So that's one of the ways we're doing it.
The other way is as you know is we have done a few of these deals and sometimes when you do a few of these deals people come to you.
And we have had some of the people that we know in the market particularly obviously on the private side who have some maturities that are coming up or have come up and passed.
And they got a one-year extension and that one-year extension is now coming up and they have other issues.
There's a refinancing pressure the loan-to-values and the spreads and the amount of equity that's required to refinance goes beyond their capabilities and we're a logical place for them to come if they own the product that we like.
So as David mentioned we're being very -- we're being highly selective because this is not just a yield play.
This is an enhance-your-portfolio and asset management play.
So we're underwriting these assets even in the case where we may not own it.
We're underwriting the assets as if we were going to own it and being very careful.
Your next question comes from the line of Samit Parikh from ISI Group.
Just wanted to follow up on a little bit of what you just said Dan and you were talking about a lot of assets coming to the market.
And we know that a lot of pension funds are sort of sitting on the sidelines with cash targeting waiting for core retail to come out and are going to underwrite very aggressively.
One question I wanted to -- well two questions really.
One was are your return requirements coming in considerably from where they have been historically because you want to be more competitive on these potential acquisitions? And two if people are starting and you're saying that we're sort of at peak pricing and underwriting is getting aggressive have you thought about maybe selling some core end markets that you might not have a dominant presence in or a big presence in and sort of recycling that capital into value-add opportunities elsewhere in the portfolio? Yes certainly with the pricing where it is today Samit and I think you're right on point there is -- it is enticing to think about selling some core products some prime product.
But that is not our goal and that is not where we're going to be.
If it happens in our company and you may see it happens because a joint venture has decided to sell a prime asset and it's trading at a price we feel is not appropriate and therefore we let it go to the market.
I think one of the important things that -- to keep in mind when bidding against pension funds private equities et cetera is our access to information often gives us a competitive disadvantage.
We're not going to try to outbid private capital just for the sake of winning the bid.
As David mentioned earlier we don't want to think that we're -- we made a great deal and we're smart just because we paid more than the next guy.
It's not hard to win when you pay more than the next guy.
The important thing to keep in mind though is that our access to the tenant community gives us great information on what we feel is going to happen to that asset.
So for example we looked an asset recently that we did not -- we were not successful on and we knew there's going to be significant rent roll downs.
And I can assure you that the buyer of that asset has no access to that information is not anticipating rent roll downs and probably underwrote the option extensions at exactly as they were written in the lease.
That's an inappropriate way to look at that asset.
We know that and that will make us noncompetitive.
And I think a lot of -- it's not just us.
I think a lot of the other publicly traded REITs that have good tenant relations they're going to have the same issue when bidding against private capital.
One of the things that we'd like to do is obviously find opportunities to leverage the platform.
So while risk on pricing is not something we always are willing to take we are willing to take a little risk for example on leasing because that access to tenant information while sometimes can be a negative in the bidding process very often can be a positive in the bidding process as well.
And where it's a positive it's where tenants have expressed an interest in doing business with landlords that they know can deliver them product on time on budget and in the right season.
So that's really where we're focused but I would not expect us and you should not expect to see us bidding successfully against passive-aggressive private capital because our operating platform really wouldn't permit us to underwrite the assets in the same manner.
Regarding the part of the question on return requirement I think there's two sides to that answer relative to our return requirement.
Two years ago -- we are much more aggressive today in looking at lower return requirements relative to two years ago simply as a function that our cost of capital has changed dramatically.
When we had to think about potential acquisition activity a couple of years ago and you're underwriting cost of debt somewhere in the 10% to 25% range and a cost of equity in the 25% to 50% range it's obviously something that's going to make new acquisition activity have to have an extremely high return threshold.
So we're in considerably relative to where we have been a couple of years ago due to cost capital improvement.
Relative to the longer term history of DDR as a major portfolio acquirer I'd say our return thresholds are not only higher than they were looking back 4  to 10 years but also the definition of returns is different than what it had been in the past.
No longer that notion of what's the initial yield on the initial accretion the focus is much more on the long-term return opportunity.
But even with that I would say our return requirements are higher than they were say 5 years ago.
Your next question comes from the line of David Wigginton from DISCERN.
So Dan you guys had talked a lot about acquisitions and I think Samit just touched on the dispositions.
Can you maybe just give us an idea of what the market is like from maybe a demand and pricing perspective for the assets in your non-prime bucket? I know you guys have been pretty active on that.
Just wondering if you expect to see maybe an uptick in the volume that you've experienced thus far maybe this year over the past couple of quarters.
Well we would like to.
We would like to be able to come back to you at some point in time and say that this market gave us the opportunity to accelerate asset dispositions beyond what we had originally guided to.
And there is certainly more interest in B/C assets than we have seen in the past.
It's not unusual for us now to get multiple bids on assets when in the past we really got one or two bids if we were lucky on an asset.
But I'm not yet convinced and I do think by the way based -- looking at the appointment schedule Vegas will be very important about dispositions as well as acquisitions as I mentioned earlier.
I'm not convinced that the market is exuberant about B minus C assets as some people think.
Clearly there has been some transactions out there.
We've done some but there's been others that are much larger than what we're doing.
And one of the things that happens when those transactions occur is that there are winners and there are losers.
And the losers have in their minds decided that perhaps chasing yield in B/C markets is a good thing.
And hopefully we'll have the opportunity to take advantage of that but -- and we will pursue that as aggressively as we can.
But we'll see.
We'll see.
I think sometimes the market gets ahead of the real interest level and when people come in to talk to you I think it's not a question of just chasing yield.
I think it's a question of trying to steal assets and we're not in the position at this point in time where we're going to sell assets for cap rates that we feel are totally inappropriate given the current position of the asset in the market.
Beside Dan's comments on price sensitivity the other major issue and mitigating factor for us is going to be that we simply have dramatically less of this product than we had a few years ago.
So when you talk about acceleration or deceleration of disposition activity almost by definition it has to be a deceleration simply because we sold over $2 billion of that product over the past couple of years and we just don't have nearly as much inventory remaining.
And so exactly as Dan mentioned it remains a big focus.
We continue to push on that side to improve the portfolio quality but there's a heck of a lot less inventory here at DDR today of non-prime product.
So in light of that then I guess what -- from looking at your long-term occupancy goal what -- I mean how much of your non-prime portfolio do you need to dispose of to achieve that? I know you guys have been active on the lease upfront but presumably you're getting rid of 75% 80% occupied assets.
That's helping your overall portfolio occupancy rate.
What -- I mean maybe a better way of asking this is maybe over the last year what percentage of your occupancy increase of 110 basis points was attributable to disposing of non-prime properties versus lease-out? It's a good question David.
But the answer is almost none and the reason is because many of the non-prime assets actually had a higher occupancy rate than the prime portfolio.
It's just that we felt that that occupancy rate was either unsustainable in the nearer term or the long term.
So we sold assets for example when we were 90% leased that were 94% leased.
That was not uncommon for us to do that.
We just didn't like the markets.
We didn't perhaps like the credit quality of that 94% et cetera.
As far as going forward is concerned our goals for occupancy do not assume that the portfolio is different than it is today.
So when we say that we feel we can get to a 95% or 95.5% leased portfolio we feel we can do that through leasing space in both prime and non-prime assets.
What will impact that number is if we sell prime assets that are at a lower level than that the occupancy rate will go up sooner than we anticipated and maybe we'll hit 95% before three years or two years or maybe we'll hit it within the next couple.
So that's something that will be impacted by asset sales in the short run.
But in the long run we feel that the 95.5% is achievable through the existing portfolio of prime and non-prime or having less non-prime and having more prime where perhaps there's some value-add opportunity.
So there is some vacancy that comes with some of that.
Okay.
And I guess just regarding your 95.5% occupancy rate what -- you broke out your leased rates by I guess by shop size.
And where would your small shop occupancy level need to get to to get to that 95.5%? And I guess what do you consider sort of the stabilized occupancy rate for those like -- the stores? In the mid to high 80s Dave.
I mean historically that hasn't been a whole heck of a lot higher than that.
But that's what I'm looking at getting that small shop space somewhere in the mid to high 80s.
And keep in mind we're also working to reduce our exposure to that shop space that size right.
We know it's the most difficult most challenging in re-leasing.
So whether it's conversion to larger space consolidation of small tenants -- or small tenant space or the majority of that -- or a large percentage anyway of that small shop space is going to be within their non-prime portfolio.
Okay.
And then just a quick question on the supplemental.
You're leased information it looks like it includes your Brazil portfolio now.
I just wanted to confirm that the quarterly leasing summary also includes Brazil? That's correct.
We've tried to continue to make improvements with the supplemental make it simpler and I think especially now with the IPO at Sonae Sierra Brasil the reality is it's not just the issue of do we include it in the stats or not.
We've made the decision to have an ownership stake down there.
It's been an important and very attractive investment for us and we have included it in the statistics this quarter.
It had a very minimal impact on the leased rate but on a go-forward basis we just thought the right strategy was to have it included in there as it's obviously part of the portfolio.
Is that at your share or is that on a 100% basis? The majority of the portfolio statistics are at 100% share of everything.
So whether it's a 15%-owned U.S.
joint venture whether it's the third -- 1/3 ownership stake we have in Sonae Sierra Brasil or a consolidated asset at 100% they're all in there at full ownership.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I'm curious with your comments about the demand for a product especially coming up at ICSC.
Does it make sense with all the yield buyers out there to put together a portfolio rather than a bunch of one-off type asset sales and take advantage of that a bit? Yes it does.
Yes it does for a lot of reasons.
Number one for us to get to the volume we've been getting to on a one-off basis is a sort of a Herculean effort when you're doing 50 deals 60 deals a year.
The centers are going to be somewhere obviously under about 100 000 square feet and you're dealing with a lot of local buyers.
If it's possible to put together a package that makes sense that we can accelerate our portfolio transition we would do so.
LLC</strong> And I'm guessing Dan that would be in excess of the $100 million type targets targeted for the year? Yes that's correct Rich.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then with the flexibility that the retailers are showing at this point that you guys talked about I'm curious if you would be likely to accelerate redevelopment of some centers to accommodate the new demands for retailers or maybe even some new development from that standpoint? Curious I guess as far as redevelopments and developments going forward what you're thinking.
Yes is the simple answer Rich.
I mean this is something we are talking about looking at every day.
We've got a meeting this afternoon to review another portfolio by region just to make sure we're not missing any opportunities because there will be more and more opportunities in this area.
As we mentioned at Investor Day right now we're focused on a 5-year program that's around $350 million with about a $45 million spend this year.
We're on pace to do that and if the  returns are right and the demand is there we will accelerate.
It's something we look at everyday.
There are certain smaller things that don't even hit that radar screen in terms of redevelopment where -- a situation with a PetSmart recently with three small shops that have sat vacant for as long as we've owned this asset and then we're putting in a 12 000-foot PetSmart.
We're not even showing that in that redevelopment category if you will.
But it's a great example of a flexible PetSmart willing to go 12 000 in this market and we've got space that again sat vacant for a number of years and we can fit them in.
So yes we're very excited about the redevelopment.
We continue to look for more opportunities every day and we will continue to keep you guys all apprised of that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then Paul would development fall into that too? Any of the idle developments you guys still have on the books or is it still too early to think for a -- from the development...
We talked about Rich there's interest out there.
We're in no hurry very consistent with what we've been saying for a while now.
We're going to talk -- there's interest in a small group of the sites we now own and control and we'll talk about it at RECon this year.
We're not setting any time frames.
We're not talking about any this is our opening date.
We're going to talk to the retailers.
We're going to see what they're willing to do with rent.
We know as we've mentioned time and time again that there's a little bit of a panic mode out there about '12 and then '13 for sure in terms of the open to buys the retailers have.
So I don't want to comment too much about what we'll see at RECon but we're going to talk about it and we'll be able to report back on that.
But we're going to be taking the temperature if you will and again we're in no hurry.
What's happening with the supply and demand story has been working very well for us but we'll see what they have to say at RECon.
Rich to Paul's point every month that goes by retailers are getting closer and closer to a problem which is satisfying those 2013 and 2014 open to buys and I think they are recognizing that with increasing frequency.
So I do think that will be a topic of conversation at RECon.
I think it'll be front and center with a lot of tenants who have large open to buys requirements for 2012 and '13 and the fact that space is being absorbed relatively quickly in the existing portfolio.
And they're going to have to either rethink their pricing requirements for new developments or they're going to have to figure out how to grow their business without new stores.
And I don't know too many retailers that want to think about growing their business without new stores.
So I think the conversations over the next 3 4 months are going to be very very interesting in regard to development.
Your next question comes from the line of Laura Clark with Green Street Advisors.
As values are increasing and have increased and development prospects are increasing as well what's happening to land values today? And is there a market for the land in your portfolio? There's more conversation Laura.
Yes we've had some activity in the first quarter.
We're in discussions and negotiations on certain other pieces.
So there's clearly a heightened level of conversation and discussion as it pertains to vacant land today.
And obviously we're going to continue to pursue where we can with that.
And so I could just tell you the activity level has certainly much increased from the last couple of years.
So there is a market.
We've got to determine what that market is.
Okay.
And then lastly I noticed that you took out your bankrupt tenant leasing disclosure this quarter.
Can you give us an update on the progress you've made towards leasing the space in 1Q and what the prospects are for the remaining boxes? Yes we were -- and I'll explain a little bit of why we did that Laura.
We were up about 80% total activity and I believe we recorded 82% at the end of the fourth quarter.
There's not a lot left there's somewhere in that 600 000 700 000 square feet because that was a select group.
Those were the four Linens Circuit Goody's and Steve &amp; Barrys that we were talking about and we didn't want to continue just to focus on that.
I think it leads into a good question about Borders and Blockbuster though which are front and center for all of us.
And there's a great level of activity on both of those portfolios.
They were widely anticipated bankruptcies and both very confusing situations for those retailers by the way.
We're talking for a minute about -- Blockbuster as we've said several times before being entirely out of that portfolio is our goal.
We believe we will be there probably within the next year and that's even if they don't liquidate.
It's great space.
We're seeing a lot of activity from the banks from Five Guys from Panera Corner Bakery and the like.
We're not having any difficulty.
It comes with some pain.
There's some downtime and some investment on some of this and the same is true with Borders.
Borders there is clearly no certainty what's going to happen in this bankruptcy process.
We know what they'd like to do.
They're not getting a lot of love from the publishers and without product you're in a very bad situation obviously as any type of retailer.
But we've recently -- we're not in position to name the tenants because leases aren't signed.
But we've just gotten 5 back and of those 5 2 of them we have done deals with best-in-class retailers and good chance we get them open this year.
It's exciting stuff and it comes with some pain.
There's some downtime on rents but these are going to be better assets better centers with these replacement tenants.
Activity level is high on both of those retailers.
So we'll probably spend a little more time keeping you all updated on those categories.
There's just really not a lot to say about the four older bankruptcies if you will.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan.
First question going back to the mezz loans for a second.
Can you talk a little bit about what the pricing looks like on some of the transactions you're looking at? And is it safe to assume that if the base case is for $100 million of capital deployment via recycling that these debt investments would be probably in the minority in terms of a portion of that? I would absolutely agree with your latter point.
The point I think is that we're looking at a large range of opportunities.
Pricing is aggressive for the most core the most trophy sort of opportunities and so that's obviously where there's a lot of product on the market but not necessarily where we see a huge opportunity for DDR.
And so we are looking at some situations where we could enter at a different spot in the capital stack but would expect that to be a very small minority of the overall activity.
And rates on that would be relatively widespread but something in the very low double digits would be a reasonable assumption.
But again it really varies quite widely across the spectrum of opportunities we're looking at.
Okay.
And then going back to the downsized stores one more time.
Based on the experiences that you've seen so far and situations where somebody is downsized is it safe to assume that the rents really haven't changed on day one when you're talking about rents going higher on a per square foot basis? You were talking about that kind of over time.
And then second part of that is for the space that's come back and then you have big centers big boxes not as much small shop space does some of the space just kind of get permanently taken out of service? Or is it cut up so pretty much everything you get back you make sure it's leasable? On the first question Mike a little different story  a couple of years ago when there was clearly the position where we couldn't afford to lose any more space we and everybody else on the landlord side.
But I would tell you the deals we're making right now on the downsizing we are expecting an upside in the rent immediately on the smaller store if you will and clearly on the residual space.
But a big part of our exercise is making sure working with the retailer that we are left with leasable space.
I can't think of an example with a downsizing of an existing tenant where we haven't been left with leasable space.
Carving up vacant boxes and there we have had a couple of situations.
But very small amounts of space maybe several hundred square feet or 1 000 square feet where it's just you can't bring in the two new tenants or the one new tenant you're talking about and lease all the space.
But that is more of a 2-year ago a year ago story.
It's become different.
And we've had a couple examples where a major retailer who wanted to get smaller than the 30 000 foot box to be ideal and we were left with unleasable space we didn't make the deal.
They've come back we've made the deal they're taking the whole box and actually at a higher rent than they were talking about a year and a half ago.
So that's what we're seeing.
But we are expecting upside if you take your store from 30 000 feet to 18 000 feet you will pay a higher rent and we're not getting a lot of resistance on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from Macquarie.
Just a couple of questions on your leasing spreads.
If you look at say on a broad level the national rent cycle for retail it would imply that the lease spread should be negative 10% not positive.
So I'm just wondering what is the reason for the positive spreads? Is it that you're rolling over just much older leases or is it a function of more current demand? And if nothing changes in this world and market rates stay flat what does this look like a couple years out? First of all it's important to remember what our calculation.
We are not including space that's been vacant for more than one year and there are several reasons for that.
Some of this stuff has been vacant since we've owned the asset.
Some space that's never been leased.
We have always used the calculation of space that's been vacant for one year or less in the spread.
And an historic practice is that's because space is turning at that rate.
So that the spread we're quoting is for just space that was vacant for less than one year.
And we expect rents to continue to improve as the supply and demand story is working in on our favor.
And again that is clearly why our focus is going to continue to be on average first year rents of new deals as we put in the supplemental and then also with the net effective rent which is very important too.
We actually had a lower CapEx per square foot on our new deals and that's something we're going to continue to emphasize.
Another item I'd bring up is you do a lot of great macro research.
We love the product look at it even before you had covered us.
But I do think one of the shortfalls that we see and that you're going to continue to find is that the macro analysis for this property type just doesn't work as well as for some of the other property types where you've used it.
And it's just that difference between commodity-oriented space and non-commodity oriented space where you really will and have one shopping center vacant and another one fully occupied across the street from one another and you simply don't see that dynamic on other property types -- or you see it have a massive impact on rents and that's just not how it works here.
Another issue is going to be the quality of the data that you can get on other property types versus what you can get here.
The nature of brokers being less involved in retail leasing versus other property types means that that national data that oftentimes comes from brokers is the absolute best source of information for office or industrial just doesn't have the same quality when you think about the data that you're getting on a national basis for retail and can oftentimes be skewed by a huge amount of freestanding retailers single-tenant boxes that represent a huge portion of the denominator that is oftentimes reflected in those stats.
So we understand the numbers you're looking at.
But we would downplay those for this property type.
It's just the macro story oftentimes really misses what's going on when you truly dig in to a certain market or submarkets for our property type.
Okay.
And how about for the second part of that question.
If market rates stay the same where do you think leasing spreads go for a couple years out from here? Well if market rates stay the same leasing spreads should also be about the same.
But I don't think we've had a time in our history where market rates stayed the same and we've obviously had times where they've gone down and we've had more times where they've gone up.
A lot of that's going to really depend on your view of inflation and where you think the inflationary environment is going to go.
If you think that we are headed towards a period of significant inflation you can assume that comp store sales will go up dramatically.
And market rents will go up dramatically as a result because at the end of the day what the tenant pays is just a percent of overall sales and what they can afford to pay is a percent of overall sales.
If you think we're going to still be in a deflationary environment then I think there's going to be very little growth and you could start to see some pressure in a deflationary pricing environment where commodity prices are perhaps going up and retailers aren't able to actually transfer that cost increase over to the consumer.
The consumer has been somewhat unwilling to absorb price increases and the retailer has no choice but to accept price increases.
So I think a lot of -- the answer to the question and I think it's a great question is really going to depend on your view on what you think the next couple of years will hold for us from an inflationary perspective.
Okay.
Thank you for that it was helpful.
And just to comment on the commodity prices ignoring gas prices for a second.
I did look at the prices for cotton.
It's basically doubled in the past year.
So what implications does that have for clothing or Bed Bath &amp; Beyond those type of retailer margins and what that can mean for how much you can push rents on them going forward? Well I think it's an issue that we have to monitor very carefully.
As of right now today if you talk to most retailers they'll tell you there has not been an impact because keep in mind that most of the goods that they get they've gotten -- the orders were placed a long time ago.
And you place your orders nine to 12 months in advance of a season so you're looking at a lag.
But going forward I think it's something that we have to watch very carefully because if the retailer is unable to pass along that increase it will have an impact on margin.
And as we all know retailers pay their rent with margin not with comp store sales.
That's why we focus so much on the margin line and the profitability line and not the comp store sales line.
Comp store sales are nice but they don't pay the bills per se.
And I think it's something that could have a real impact if the retailer is unable to pass along the pricing increase to the consumer.
Now that being said we can go into our centers today and we can find plenty of evidence where retailers are trying to pass along the increase some of the increases that they either anticipate or they're currently experiencing.
And I think the consumer ultimately will determine how successful that is.
Okay.
And last quick question.
As I look at your 2012 debt maturities the $1.1 billion coming through what is the average effective interest rate and what do you think the average effective interest rate will be when you refinance that? I think we've got that specific number in the supplemental.
The largest components of it are going to be the term loan which is $550 million in LIBOR plus 88 basis points.
$100 million of that $550 million has LIBOR swap to a high 4% rate.
But still all-in you're at 1.5% for half of that debt.
The second largest component of it is what remains of our large convert that has a base interest rate of 3% but for accounting purposes we actually book it in the mid-5% range.
So from what's showing up on the income statement it's a little higher than that.
So all-in you would blend in terms of what's being expensed to somewhere in the 3s.
And with the same thing on refinancing.
Right now you'd see the spread on the term loan go up somewhat.
That increase will be dramatically less than what we or anyone else would've speculated in the past.
And I think the bond market gives us good pricing for -- the secondary market gives us good feedback on what  pricing would be for a 5- 7- or 10-year bond issuance in the -- somewhere between the low 4s and low 5% rates depending on what exact tenor we pick.
So all-in if today you're expensing somewhere in the mid-3s I think it's credible that you would go to somewhere in the mid-4s all-in on that 2012 expiration activity.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya.
[Jefferies] Inc.</strong> Going back to the question of retail bankruptcies.
I know you guys don't have that much exposure to Blockbuster.
Could you kind of talk about what you're hearing out of them at this point? Yes Tayo.
It's -- everybody knows the Dish Network was the successful bidder at auction and they're talking about still coming out with 500 stores.
It's hard to visualize why the Dish Network needs 5 000 square-foot stores and 500 of them.
So our approach is clearly going to be like we're going to get them all back.
They've been telling us in our example where we're down to about 16 or 17 that there's probably 7 leases they would assume because they want to operate them.
They obviously can't control that.
But our view is that that this is a short-term play and at the end of the day there's a liquidation of most if not all of the physical locations.
And there are no further questions at this time and this will conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Developers Diversified Realty Co.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chantilly and I will be your facilitator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr.
Tim Lordan Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed Sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from President and CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and Chief Financial Officer David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at ddr.com.
Last we will be observing a 2-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of the call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Tim.
Good morning and welcome to our Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
I'd like to begin the call by highlighting our continued focus on capital recycling and enhancing the overall quality of our portfolio.
The successful refinancing of the term loan and the revolving credit facilities have provided greater financial flexibility in a more competitive cost of capital for our company.
As a result we are intently focused on sourcing external growth opportunities to the acquisition of prime assets and recycling capital from non-prime assets sales.
As highlighted in our June 30 press release we disposed of an additional $112 million of primarily non-prime assets during the second quarter and have $85 million of prime assets under contract to acquire.
The non-prime assets sold were primarily in secondary and tertiary markets and some were single-tenant  assets while others were non- income-producing assets.
To the contrary the properties under contract were creatively sourced are located in a target market with demographics that will enhance our prime portfolio and have growth characteristics that will be maximized through our operating platform and tenant relationships.
In addition to the assets under contract our pipeline of acquisition opportunities include core core plus and value-add  assets and our underwriting will continue to be very disciplined.
Acquisitions are all about growth not asset count.
In addition to the external growth opportunities that we are actively sourcing we are keenly focused on maximizing our internal growth opportunities due to continued lease up of our portfolio and the aggressive pursuit of redevelopments.
As highlighted by our quarterly same-store NOI growth of 3.6% we are continuing to see the benefits of the leasing momentum that has existed within our portfolio for the past several quarters and we believe the strong NOI growth will continue in the near term as we work our way back to a stabilized lease rate of at least 95%.
More over as mentioned on prior calls we have been working hard to identify redevelopment opportunities within our existing portfolio.
Based upon our thorough review of near-term and long-term opportunities we have identified nearly $750 million of potential redevelopments that will be pursued over the next 5 years.
The reduced  risk profile of redevelopments are attractive relative to ground-up development projects and provide compelling typically double-digit first year unlevered cash on cost returns.
Moreover with our continued focus on improving the quality of our portfolio we are excited about the opportunity to invest in many of our highest quality assets further enhancing net asset value.
When thinking of DDR going forward our goal is to be viewed as a company with an increasingly high-quality portfolio that will continue to improve over time.
As a company with an exciting internal growth story through continued lease-up and rent-roll  growth and an external growth story driven by acquisitions that leverage the strengths of our operating platform.
Also a company with an opportunistic redevelopment program that will maximize the value of assets already owned.
Finally you should continue to expect additional improvement to our balance sheet credit metrics and credit ratings.
At DDR we are constantly thinking about retail the positives and the negatives learning from our retail partners and using that knowledge to energize a platform dedicated to creating value for our shareholders.
I'll now turn the call over to Paul.
Thank you Dan.
I'll begin by highlighting what was another highly productive quarter followed by a brief discussion regarding a subject that deserves a great deal of attention: portfolio quality and why it matters.
Regarding our quarterly leasing results our domestic leased rate increased to 92.8%.
This represents a 120 basis point increase over the second quarter of 2010 and a 40 basis-point  increase sequentially.
Including Brazil our blended leased rate is now at 93%.
We expect this momentum to continue in the third and fourth quarters resulting in a blended leased rate of over 93.2% by year end.
In the second quarter we completed a total of 483 deals for over 2.5 million square feet with a combined spread of 6% up from 3.9% one year ago and 5.4% in the first quarter.
This represents our fifth straight quarter of positive combined leasing spreads and illustrates the consistent demand for quality space.
It is important to note that this growth has been achieved with lower CapEx on a per square-foot  basis and that the impact of these results will be apparent in our income statement in the coming year while the full impact will show up in 2013.
I would now like to take a few minutes to discuss the importance of portfolio quality and how we should evaluate the quality of a specific asset.
There are many ways to evaluate the quality of a portfolio or a particular asset including local demographics comparisons to national averages occupancy levels rental growth et cetera.
But one factor should stand above all else the retailers.
The retailer knows the consumer better than any landlord and the consumer certainly shows that they frequent the most successful and compelling retailers.
More over it's critical to keep in mind that no consumer shops at any property based on who owns it they shop exclusively based on the tenants that occupy it.
Speaking of the tenants the consumer votes for every day our portfolio consists mostly of power centers with destination tenants such as Walmart Target Kohl's Bed Bath &amp; Beyond TJX Dicks Sporting Goods Publix PetSmart and many other national credits that attract other high-quality retailers as co-tenants and generate significant sales volumes.
These retailers have game-changing  marketing real estate and merchandising strategies that drive customers to their stores and therefore increase the value of our centers.
These retailers and the others that we are doing business with every day are also the retailers that have consistently grown market share.
Most importantly they grew market share before and during the recession and continue to grow share even coming off positive comps.
Just the 8 aforementioned retailers have plans to open over 75 million square feet of new stores in aggregate over the next 2 years.
As a company that has leased more than 32 million square feet of space in the last 3 years our portfolio is a first look for successful retailers with aggressive open to buys.
While we can all acknowledge that there is vacant space out there never in my career have I seen such an imbalance between the demand for space from retailers and the lack of quality supply.
In our portfolio over 73% of our GLA consists of units that are over 10 000 square feet and these same units are over 95% leased and represent 62% of base rent.
Only 17% of our GLA consists of units less than 5 000 square feet and they represent 26% of base rent.
So in summary our portfolio was more heavily weighted towards anchor and junior-anchor  credit tenants than local small shops.
With our shop space roughly 83% leased and approximately 3 million square feet of vacancy in space larger than 10 000 square feet we continue to see significant internal growth potential in both categories.
As a result of our tenants' operational successes and the high demand combined with the lack of quality new supply as Dan mentioned we are significantly ramping up our redevelopment efforts.
For example in addition to the 2 Target redevelopments in Denver and San Antonio which we mentioned in our May 18 press release we're currently undergoing a redevelopment at one of our largest assets Plaza Del Norte in Puerto Rico.
We are eliminating chronically vacant small shop space and previously unleaseable common area to accommodate an expansion of J.
C.
Penney.
And we are also combining 4 vacant small shop units to provide PetSmart with another one of their early stores on the island.
These 3 projects total $40 million in investment at a combined 10.5% unlevered cash on cost yield and are indicative of the opportunities that we are pursuing.
Before closing I would also like to again address the popular theme of tenants' desire to downsize and explain why this can be an opportunity for value creation.
Using Best Buy as an example there are 20 locations of over 40 000 square feet in our portfolio.
As a result we estimate we could get back as much as 250 000 square feet in residual space in the next 3- to 5-year  period should Best Buy execute exactly as their public statements outlined.
It could easily take longer and it is highly unlikely it would take less time to meet those stated downsizing goals.
It's also important to note that all but one of those stores are in prime assets by re-leasing the residual square footage at current market rents we estimate over $1 million of embedded based rental growth from this potential downsizing alone keeping in mind there are opportunities with other retailers as well.
There will in many cases be some short-term downtime and potentially some capital spend on build out depending on the individual deal but long-term this is a great opportunity for DDR and Best Buy alike.
But this is all at the landlord's discretion.
Best Buy does not have the contractual right to downsize unless their lease is up for renewal meaning everything is up for negotiation.
And since all but one location are primed should we be unable to come to terms and they leave all together the growth potential is even greater.
The bottom line is we are supportive of Best Buy's plans and we're working directly with them to create a positive result for both of us but still the deal  has to make economic sense for DDR.
In summary when considering the tremendous quality endorsement that our portfolio continues to receive from our customer the tenant as evidenced by consistent leasing momentum and the dynamic that exists with certain tenants expressing an interest in downsizing while others desire growth one can conclude that the supply and demand dynamic within our portfolio presents a compelling opportunity for occupancy and rental growth today and tomorrow.
I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $64.4 million or $0.23 per share for the second quarter which was in line with our expectations.
Including nonoperating items FFO for the quarter was $24.1 million or $0.09 per share.
Nonoperating items were primarily impairment charges and losses related to the disposition of certain non-prime assets as well as the write-off  of original issuance costs related to redemption of our 8% Series G preferred shares in April.
Gains of approximately $14 million on asset sales were recognized in net income during the quarter and are excluded from both FFO measures.
As you may have noticed from the press release we are tightening our guidance for 2011 operating FFO per share by $0.03 on the low end and the high end to $0.93 to $1.02 per share.
The midpoint is unchanged despite the aggressive execution of our 2011 strategic objectives.
We exceeded our full year disposition objectives during the first half of the year significantly accelerated the timing of our capital raises and refinancing and have lowered our amount of floating-rate  debt.
With all that we are encouraged to still be able to maintain our full year guidance midpoint.
The significant capital markets activity this quarter was the refinancing of our $550 million term loan and unsecured revolving credit facilities.
Our initial 2011 plans called for the term loan to be addressed late in the year.
However we decided to take advantage of attractive debt markets and we were very pleased with many of the credit facilities at the same time.
Pricing on the new financings is very competitive and over 100 basis points tighter from last year with a spread to LIBOR of 170 basis points on the term loan and 165 basis points on the credit facilities.
These spreads are based on Moody's and S&amp;P's credit ratings which can improve as we work to regain our consensus in less than grade credit rating.
We also took the opportunity to fix LIBOR on $100 million of the new $500 million term loan and to be named to an interest rate swapped contract that fixes LIBOR at 1% through June 2014.
At the end of the second quarter only 13% of our total consolidated debt is variable-rate which is consistent with our objective of having approximately 10% to 20% of our debt at floating rates.
Equally as important as the cost of our debt is its duration.
And these financings result in much better balance maturity schedule than ever before.
At June 30 our weighted average debt maturity was 4.5 years a significant improvement from 3.1 years at the end of last year's second quarter.
Further there are no years in which consolidated debt maturities exceed $1 billion.
For a company of our size with relatively stable and long-term revenue streams and a track record for raising over $2 billion of capital per annum recently our debt maturities going forward are very manageable and our cost of capital is clearly competitive again.
We are also taking advantage of the competitive market for property financings.
Early next month we will close on a $75 million tenure mortgage secured by a lifestyle center in the Chicago MSA.
Interest on this mortgage is fixed at 4.8% and it replaces a $60 million loan priced at 5.6%.
Shortly after that financing we expect to close a $65 million 10-year mortgage secured by a Power Center in New Jersey.
Interest on this mortgage is fixed at 5.4% and this replaces a $37 million loan with an interest rate of 7%.
Closing these financings will further improve our weighted average debt maturity and average cost of debt.
During the first half of the year we raised more than $1.70 billion of new debt and equity capital and it is encouraging to see our efforts to lower our risk profile and restructure our balance sheet rewarding.
There is more work to do in pursuing our deleveraging goals and we continue to expect to have pro rata debt to EBITDA ratio in the mid-7x range at the end of the fourth quarter and below-7x longer term.
We will continue to actively pursue opportunities to lower leverage and we expect to continue to make progress on this initiative without further dilution.
We also continue to deliver on our capital recycling initiatives.
For the first 6 months of the year we have generated $155 million of gross proceeds through asset sales our share of which was $107 million which again exceeds our full year goal.
We are deploying the proceeds from non-prime asset sales into the acquisition of prime shopping centers which improves the quality of the portfolio on a balance-sheet  neutral basis.
While our active disposition program presents some challenges predicting our near-term earnings we are very confident that these efforts will result in a portfolio with better than average long-term growth prospects which we believe will create significant value for our shareholders.
We are being very diligent in underwriting potential acquisitions and despite a competitive market we are pleased to be finding select opportunities which we expect to update you on later this quarter.
We are very proud of the consistent execution on the strategic objectives that we've outlined for you over the past few years.
And we will continue to make decisions that are in the best long-term interest of all of our stakeholders.
Finally I'm pleased to announce that Samir Khanal has recently agreed to join our team as Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Samir is joining us from Morgan Stanley and has 8 years of experience covering the REITs as a sell-side  analyst and knows commercial real estate in our sector very well.
We are proud to be an industry leader in providing effective and transparent disclosure and Samir's addition is an example of how committed we are to being proactive in this regard.
We are confident he will further improve our investor communications and make significant contributions to DDR overall.
At this point I'll stop and turn the call back over to Dan for closing remarks.
Thank you David.
In closing I'd like to reiterate our continued focus on maximizing internal growth opportunities while taking a disciplined approach to external growth.
We are creatively sourcing prime acquisition opportunities with a primary focus on enhancing net asset value.
Our reduced cost of capital and successful recapitalization of the balance sheet provides far greater financial flexibility to support these growth initiatives.
Additionally we are encouraged by the level of demand we are seeing from retailers for new stores and believe our ability to work cooperatively with our tenants as they seek to downsize and reconfigure their space will result in continued strength in our portfolio.
Overall our story is getting much clearer by the day and we expect the positive momentum that we have enjoyed to continue.
At this time operator we'd be happy to address any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Paul Morgan of Morgan Stanley.
Just on the -- you went through the dispositions could you break out -- is it a material impact on the portfolio occupancy because you said they're under occupied as what 700 000 square feet? This quarter there was not a material impact on the increase in occupancy for the quarter.
We did have one prime center in the pool that was more highly leased than our portfolio average.
We also had obviously the great majority of assets were non-prime assets with lower occupancy levels but overall it's just a small enough sample where there was no material impact certainly nothing that would have been I don't think even 10 basis points but certainly not more than that.
There will be some situations though Paul where we have and will continue to sell assets that may be occupied at a higher level than the overall portfolio because we are uncertain whether it would remain there.
So for example we have assets that we have sold over 94% lease and we felt quite confident they'd go to 88% before they went to 95% so we'll continue to assess that on a case-by-case basis.
Would you say that -- I mean there's momentum in terms of the asset sales based on maybe the breadth of demand widening out is this mostly just blocking and tackling or is everything kind of one-off or do you think you could sell things on -- in your portfolio? I think there's a couple of ways to look at it.
Most of it would be one-off one- or two-off but one of the things that you have to keep in mind is that we've sold over $2 billion worth of assets in the last couple of years.
So our actual roster of assets to sell has gotten much smaller over time.
So the idea of doing a large portfolio is going to be much more difficult because again the size of the portfolio that's left to sell has dwindled somewhat because of our successful execution on the disposition side and the quality of what we're selling now tends to be on the lower side as well.
So I think you could fairly well expect us to maintain a one-off or maybe two-off sort of transactional pace to get to our $100 million a year of dispositions.
But I can't see a scenario in which asset dispositions will accelerate given what's left to sell.
We're being more selective in terms of pricing when you think about sources and uses with the current time the uses of proceeds being the redevelopment pipeline as well as prime acquisitions.
Redevelopments represent attractive high-return opportunities.
Acquisitions as we all know are very competitively priced for the most part at this time so that means we need to be price sensitive on the sale side also which is a difference relative to 2 years ago when the more we could accelerate any sales the more we could repurchase our debt at dramatic discounts to par where today we're much more disciplined simply because of the use of proceeds.
We have to be much more careful.
And so that's what you're seeing show up in the sale results and the more attractive pricing that we're achieving.
My other question is on Borders and not so much just within your portfolio because your portfolio's relatively limited but just more broadly speaking do you think -- just your color on the way retailers are going to view this space and kind of how that may evolve over the second half of the year as it all becomes available.
I mean do you think that retailers are more likely to increase their store openings because it's becoming available they've been waiting on the sidelines for the space for a while? Or is it sort of kind of already embedded in expectations and the fact that it's coming available earlier may mean other deals people might have in the works may get postponed? I think the last point you made Paul.
It's clearly been anticipated it's not going to change anything in terms of the available space dynamic and it's not going to move the needle much on the supply side either.
It's been anticipated.
We've been working as I'm sure every landlord with Borders in their portfolio has on the entire portfolio.
We've had deals in LOI stage while Borders was still in bankruptcy and we just hope to execute those quickly but that's really what's happened.
Nobody's surprised that it turned into a liquidation.
And I don't see anybody ramping up their open to buy plans but at the same time they knew that this would be an available source for dealing.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann of Goldman Sachs.
Maybe a question for David.
As you look at the midpoint of the narrowed range for guidance for the year I guess taking the first half run rate can you walk us through some of the factors that might move you perhaps to the upper end? I mean you look at occupancy I guess they expect it to be 93.2% at the end of the year.
You have seen a nice tick-up in same-store NOI and leasing spreads have improved as well but what are you looking toward that could put you at the upper end of the range? I mean there's not a ton of time left in the year for new long-term leasing but there's obviously a constant process in terms of how do we maximize the cash flow from the portfolio.
Or we could think about certain acceleration of lease payments whether that's just getting someone open earlier and select cases where we've got demand for the space.
For lease termination it's also we've probably been more active than anyone  of the industry on the ancillary-income  side but there's still an opportunity to add additional income for later in the year.
And then some of it just relates to the budget process where while we are pleasantly surprised every day and happy to see LIBOR stay at the 25 basis-point level it's  certainly not the way that we budget anymore.
And so to the extent we do see rates stay lower it is helpful.
That said you've got some currents on the other side too and that's why we've maintained a range that we think is appropriate where we do not foresee any reasonable circumstances where we'd fall outside of that and continue to target the midpoint of that range for the outcome of this year despite the fact that we've pulled asset  sales forward we've pulled refinancings forward and it's not at all unreasonable to assume that if we think it's the right thing to do for the company long-term then we will continue to do that.
And that could still have an impact on our cost later in the year.
I guess with bad debt trending down year-over-year have you seen any sort of changes in terms of store closings or expectations changing at all for the back half of the year? No I think we've got factored in everything that we anticipate Jay we really don't see anything -- obviously something we watch very closely with any category that we view at risk but the guidance we're talking about clearly reflects any modifications for the Borders and Blockbusters and closings such as that.
One of the things also Jay that we're very active on is obviously on the ancillary-income  side so if you take a situation like we had Borders where it was not fully anticipated that they would abandon all their stores before year end we've already replaced that income that we would lose in 2011 with ancillary income and temporary tenants.
So we've mentioned a number of times that the aggressive nature of our new business development platform and our ancillary income platform helps us mitigate risks in the event that we have a negative surprise.
And this is a perfect example of it.
If we had not been able to replace Borders' that are closing with temporary tenants we would have lost somewhere around $250 000 in revenue between the end of September and the end of the year but again we've already backfilled that space assuming we get it back when we think we will.
And that's part of our platform that we think helps mitigate the risk of future downside.
And my second question just on the development on hold can you give us some sense there in terms of I guess any sort of updated thoughts on that investment the $530 million? On the development part of it Jay we're still looking.
We're not overly excited about getting anything going soon.
I think we last spoke to you guys on the first quarter call about taking a good look at recon in Vegas in May and seeing what the appetite was.
And there's clearly interest and appetite and it is all about locking up the anchor tenants but I'll be honest with you we're not looking to get anything  out of the ground anytime soon.
We do know in some cases it's going to be the best way to monetize that land.
But we're being patient with it.
We're going to wait for the right rate for the right return and we'll move forward once we're satisfied.
We feel it coming but it's not there yet.
Your next question comes from the line of David Wigginton of DISCERN.
Inc</strong> David you in your commentary mentioned your objective of getting to midsize in time I think for your debt to EBITDA ratio are you still operating on the premise that you're going to continue to lower that ratio primarily as a result of increasing EBITDA? Or are you planning on lowering debt as well maybe through new equity or free cash flow? The overwhelming majority of the improvement that we forecasted for the rest of the year or for future years is from EBITDA growth.
Selectively there will still be debt reduction.
Debt reduction's been the primary driver of the improvement in this metric the past couple of years.
On a go-forward basis we think EBITDA growth would be the larger driver would not expect at all equity debt reductions through equity issuance or the issuance of new common shares.
But could think about that through the effective creation of new equity either by the low payout ratio that continues to result in considerable free cash flow some of which gets reinvested in the portfolio but some of which could also be used to repay additional debt.
Also the monetization of non income-producing assets which for covenants and debt to EBITDA ratio purposes works at least as well as the issuance of new common equity so there might be select  improvements  on the debt reduction side that would not at all expect that to be through the issuance of common equity but more so would expect  improvement in EBITDA to be the larger driver there.
Inc</strong> So on the EBITDA front then I guess your EBITDA has been ticking down sequentially with the disposition activity in the portfolio and obviously you've got a pretty wide spread between your leased and in condensed rate as well.
And you're generating pretty decent rent growth.
How does that all balance out and actually get you to your goal? The EBITDA reduction on a total portfolio basis year-to-date has been partially driven by the dispositions falling earlier in the year in the acquisitions while we exceeded our disposition goal for the year.
We are still -- have some work to do to get to our acquisition goal.
So I think that's part of it.
Some of it's also just going to be the importance of seasonality.
Second quarter is basically the seasonally lightest quarter for us in terms of EBITDA both relating to tenant schedules for the most natural time for closing stores as well as opening stores for retailers as well as the amount of ancillary income that's created in various quarters.
And so we would hesitate to use the second quarter as the right way to think about the run rate there where we think about the fourth quarter even just the seasonality of it besides  the point you mentioned on that considerable volume of leasings  been signed but yet to commence cash flowing.
We think all those factors combine to get us much improved on that metric over the next several quarters.
Inc</strong> So then based on what you just said is your pace of acquisition  going to outpace the rate of dispositions? For the remainder of the year? Over the remainder of the year the budget has the pace of acquisitions exceeding the pace of dispositions.
We mentioned previously we're under contract on $85 million of acquisitions which will represent the majority if not all of what we complete before year end.
Inc</strong> Final follow-up to that is can you give us an idea what the spread between your acquisition and disposition cap rates have been year to date and kind of where you see that going for the remainder of the year.
Year to date the spread has been approximately 50 basis points from the mid-7s on the acquisition side to the high-7s low-8s on the dispositions side.
Going forward we would assume it would be somewhere between that 50 and 100 basis-point  range.
There are going to be selected positions that trade well wide of that.
There are going to be certain dispositions that trade well inside of that where we're able to reinvest the proceeds on an accretive basis but net based on the significant increase in quality from what we're buying versus what we're selling we would expect it to be something in that 50 to 100 basis-point  range.
It's also for the relatively low volume relative to prior years that you're seeing that sell and the greater pricing discipline that we've shown there.
I think we're generating better pricing on the dispositions and we're also not at all pressured to force ourselves in anything on the acquisition side where we're unwilling to compromise our underwriting pricing discipline there.
And so that's why you are seeing amidst the overwhelming majority of assets that trade simply because we think the pricing is particularly aggressive but the select opportunities we find we think can actually show a pretty modest spread between the cap rates on what we're buying and what we're selling.
And we think looking out a year or 2 you more than make up for that on a higher growth profile of what we're buying at the NOI stream of we're buying.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy from UBS.
Paul I just wanted to follow up on your comments about the 250 000 square feet of space you should get back over the next 3.5 years.
Does this represent only the Best Buy space? Or are there other retailers in there that might be downsizing? And are these estimates a result of direct discussions that you guys have had with Best Buy regarding future space needs and what retailers could potentially take that residual space? The number's clearly Best Buy related only Christy.
And it is in discussions with them.
Now it was used as an example in fact we had these guys in our office this week going through the entire portfolio but one of the things I wanted to emphasize is there's a way to be cooperative with your major retailers.
It's not all downside.
And we're working closely with these guys to figure out how to get this done.
So that number comes specifically through conversations with Best Buy.
There's a lot of the devil's in the detail obviously in finding the right replacements.
And as I mentioned in the script it's going to be our call at the end of the day and Best Buy gets that.
There are several retailers -- we haven't gotten to the length we had with Best Buy yet but all of the office guys and again not every location is oversized.
Jo-Ann Fabrics is another example in the arts and crafts side.
But anybody who's downsizing this is something we are regularly reviewing throughout our entire portfolio treat it as an opportunity get proactive with it and let's get them in here and discuss it.
And trust me the retailers love that approach.
So as a result of those types of discussions in addition to Best Buy how much space could that potentially be in the aggregate over the next 3 to 5 years? We don't really know.
We haven't gotten that far Christy and again it's going to be -- not everybody has been as clear as Best Buy in their releases in terms of what they're looking to downsize to and from.
So it's a little simpler with the Best Buy.
If they want to be 36 000 to 40 000 in every location it's not hard to figure it out.
But we don't have that but it's something we're working on.
And again the point is there's opportunity here it's not all risk.
There's a big gap Christie in the retail community between those that are talking about it and actually executing it and those that are quite frankly talking about it because they think that's what the market wants to hear.
Obviously it's kind of like Best Buy.
It's very proactive.
They're working very aggressively.
Like Paul said they were here this week.
We went through everything with them.
We have a good working relationship and we'll make progress.
Some of the other tenants know that it's quite fashionable to talk about that.
It's something they should do but they are well behind some of their peers.
And it's somewhat uncertain to us yet who's real in the downsizing effort and who think it's fashionable to talk about a downsizing effort.
And just following up on the second part of my question we've heard names like Trader Joe's or Sephora being thrown out there as retailers that could potentially take the residual space.
Are you seeing any other retailers sort of popping up? There's quite a few.
I mean Ulta heads the list Christy.
I mean Trader Joe's and Sephora are clearly there but Ulta.
Carter's is in an aggressive growth boat and they're specifically asking us "Where can we get space that some of your larger tenants want to downsize?" Five Below Dot's the Dress Barn these are all guys that are looking for space in that category that call it 8 000 to 10 000 feet.
And then just following up on your projected $750 million of redevelopment opportunities.
Can you give a sense for how the timing of the investment would play out over the next 5 years and expected returns on investment? On terms of timing clearly it's going to ramp-up as we go into the out years.
We're planning to spend somewhere around $45 million in 2011 really just the genesis of the program.
But it ramps up pretty significantly in the later years.
And returns? Returns that on average are certainly going to be in the double digits.
Selectively you might have a few that are below that but the overwhelming majority and certainly the weighted average are going to end up in the double digits low teens sort of area.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of Macquarie.
Could you break out the same-store  NOI performance between your various regions meaning Brazil and the U.S.
and maybe Puerto Rico.
The biggest spread is with Brazil where it's been by far the strongest.
Results down there continue to be in the mid-teens range and so well in excess of what we're able to achieve elsewhere or U.S.
and Puerto Rico has generally been in mid-2% range.
And the positive lease thread is that also driven by Brazil or is that more equal? That is much more equal.
There's going to be  less of an impact there both the volume of leasing they're signing on a quarterly basis.
As well as our leasing spreads for the Brazilian portfolio are significantly understated relative to the real economic growth because we get annual escalators.
So you're seeing that NOI show up every year but it's not -- or NOI growth show up every year but it's not showing up in a rental spread.
So rental spreads down there are good but significantly understate the real economic growth because you're getting that contractual bump every year.
And so on the spread side there's really not much impact and not much...
And I may add to David's point that it is really carried by the U.S.
and Puerto Rico the domestic portfolio on the spreads.
If you can provide some quick commentary on Florida is that market picking up? It's soft softer than most let me put it that way.
There's a little bit of pickup but we're seeing better pickup in Georgia and the Carolinas.
So in terms of the small-shop  space we've seen the same success in the box space down in Florida that we had experienced in the most places.
But the small shop that's really been the hardest hit and continues to be the slowest to come back.
We are seeing some recovery in the shop space but the Carolinas and Georgia have really carried that.
Just diving a little bit deeper into your portfolio it looks like the space that is greater than 20 000 square feet occupancy increased about 40 bps to 96.3.
And I'm guessing that had a lot to do with the overall portfolio obviously gains and things like NOI especially in the U.S.
Given that it's kind of approaching that structural level of upper 90s for the next year going forward what are the incremental -- I guess how do you get continuous 3% 3.5% NOI growth with large-base  being almost fully occupied? But I would tell you also that don't look at a 95 or 96 in that box space as fully occupied.
It's always been a much higher percent lease than the corporate average but there's clearly still upside.
We've got 2.5 million square feet approximately of space in that north of 10 or 20 and there's lots of opportunity there.
We honestly believe we can get that up in the 98% range and we'll do it.
I mean there's still lots of activity lots of demand lots in our pipeline.
And there's also the opportunity in the small shop.
We historically got to a high in that less than 5 000 square feet in the high 80s.
So we're sitting as we said just below 83.
There's room there too.
So combined we think there's plenty of upside for the foreseeable future.
And remember that from a same-store  NOI perspective where we're switching from talking about square footage as you guys had been talking about NOI those smaller spaces while they have been tougher and as Paul mentioned their occupancy naturally is going to be somewhat lower over time.
They do generate higher rent per square foot and maybe approximately 2x the rent per square foot.
So you need a smaller amount of progress in that bucket to still make a very large contribution of same-store NOI.
And I noticed you guys provided a little bit more breakout on the small-shop space.
You guys cleared [ph] it out a little more.
But if you could compare it on an apples-to-apples basis over the last quarter what was the incremental increase on occupancy or decrease? It was up but slightly quarter-to-quarter in the small-shop  space but there's something we're going track more closely.
We've  broken it down a little finer and that's part of the intention in the supplement given to show a further breakdown so we'll be able to track this a lot closer.
It's worth making a couple of other points on that small-shop  space.
We actually had our highest spreads in the quarter in that space and our renewal spreads of which there's a significant amount of renewals within the year were solid in this category also.
So I don't want to sit here and say that everything is rosy in the small-shop  space because it's not but there's certainly improvement and a lot of upside.
Just last question given just the general negative headlines and commenting on a lot of risk out there how much if you could somewhat quantify or qualitatively how much demand do you think is out there that's just waiting for things to clear up before they pull the trigger? Very little.
I'll tell you as unsettled as the macro situation is we have been consistently pleased by how steadfast the retailers have been and how consistent they've been in seeking space.
We don't get the sense some of like you do often on the investment side or the capital-market  side that there is a wall of demand out there waiting for something positive to happen.
I think it's quite the opposite in the retail community.
I think the retailers understand that even though the macro situation is uncertain and may not be as stable as they would like I think the availability of space is even less certain for them and they know if they don't act now they're going to have a real problem in the foreseeable future and as a result that has maintained a level of interest in space that we think really will continue number one and number two has as surprised us with its consistency.
I think it's also one of the things that when you talk to tenants that are looking to downsize it surprises them too because as they go out and they talk to other tenants as well they're surprised by the demand for space and that gives them the ability to accomplish their downsizing goals in a manner in  which they've outlined.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.</strong> Dan just wanted to get your sort of big-picture  take.
A lot of talk with Amazon and Internet sales not being taxed if it's just purely online without the brick and mortar presence do you have any sense as you speak to your various tenants how many sales -- how much sales they actually lose because people are deciding instead to buy it online rather than walk into a brick and mortar store.
And I don't mean tenants like a Best Buy who are choosing to buy it on their website versus walking in the store.
I'm talking the Amazons the Gilts et cetera? H It's a good point it's a good question.
Because one of the things that you're seeing which you might intuitively think when you talk about the impact of Internet sales is an overall decline in comp store sales at the asset level and we're not seeing that.
So the question you almost have to ask yourself is are they taking my piece of the pie or is the pie actually getting larger? And  most tenants will tell you that online sales are supporting the bricks and mortars sales and contributing dramatically to the comp-store  bricks and mortar number because there's a lot of browsing that goes on on the Internet a lot of  buying that goes on in the store.
So I don't think  most of them feel that it's taking away from bricks and mortar forgetting like you said Best Buy and particularly in the ready-to-wear sector where most people like to touch and feel clothing before they buy it.
I think most of them feel from our conversations that the  Internet proposition is supportive of the bricks and mortar and is complementary to bricks and mortar and hasn't really taken away from the sales of the bricks and mortar the way intuitively we might think that it would.
L.P.</strong> So like the using Amazon as an example is that something more like sort of books related where a whole category has sort of migrated online and most categories your tenants aren't  seeing people shop exclusively at online-only  retailers? I think that's right.
I do think there's a difference though.
I think there's a difference between categories that are vulnerable because they're flawed versus categories that provide just an alternative shopping experience the consumers may or may not take advantage of.
We've said for many years we've had this discussion that we've always been concerned about commodity goods that are at very very low margins.
And the fact that there is a more efficient distribution channel being in particular the Internet or in some cases a catalog versus bricks and mortar.
We talked about some of those sectors  and we're seeing that come to fruition.
It doesn't surprise us and doesn't really concern us.
It's actually just part of the evolution of retail.
It's what we deal with every day.
So I think category by category if you take a look at it our goal is to obviously identify the winners and the losers.
And we feel that from a competitive standpoint those commodity goods that thin margins with inefficient distribution channels are the ones that will continue to struggle and eventually I think they'll disappear.
L.P.</strong> My second question is for David.
In your discussion with the rating agencies you've done the term loan you did the line of credit are there any next steps that they are looking for? Or is it purely just sort of getting to some sort of EBITDA metric or something or some sort of threshold like that? I think the major steps are done at this point.
Everything we've outlined to them in terms of major individual transactional activity has been accomplished over the past couple of years and in general has been accomplished at better execution than we originally budgeted with various models that we would have shared with them.
And so we are pleased that you've seen positive rating agency activity from each one of the 3 major agencies.
And so we are seeing it move in the right direction.
It's never going to be as rapid as we might like to reflect the progress that we certainly are confident that we're making every day.
But we have seen progress there we think there will be more and some of it as you mentioned is just a process of seeing the EBITDA growth over time.
While some of the capital-markets activity  is something you can go and do in a week or a month and the transaction is completed on the leasing side it's obviously a much longer-term process of getting a good tenant in place and cash flowing.
And so it's been a process over time of showing more and more progress there.
And  we expect that to continue and we expect the positive feedback to continue.
L.P.</strong> So from just our perspective is midyear next year is that sort of reasonable for thinking that one of the other 2 may also upgrade you guys to investment grade or is that a little too ambitious? I don't want to avoid the question but the reality is it's better placed with them than with us.
We certainly can control how hard we push on the metrics and there is a constant and urgent focus on that and a strong dialogue with each of the agencies.
We've talked about having the metrics comfortably in place during 2012.
When the ratings come is uncertain.
And obviously when you overlie  some of the crazy mattress stuff going on right now where whether it's the agencies or any fixed-income  investor in the world being dramatically more focused about the U.S.
sovereign situation than DDR's credit rating I think it makes it even harder to forecast it.
So what we can control is the metrics and how hard we push and with how much urgency.
We push on continued improvement there and you can assume that we are working extremely diligently on that.
When the ratings come I don't think it's something we want to handicap.
L.P.</strong> Well at least they're discussing upgrading you guys and not the other way around.
You're next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Looking at certain retailers and for one I'm thinking of TJX who have pretty aggressive open to buys in their case over 100 stores in '12 and '13.
In your discussions how are they planning to do that? Are they planning to build freestanding stores or go to lower quality strip centers? What is the game plan? Haven't heard about them building any of their own Craig but they're -- listen they know it's a very aggressive plan but the success of the Marshals and the T.J.
Maxx and HomeGoods has a lot of runway also because it's not out there in a big way in terms of number of stores.
So you're going to see a lot of HomeGoods being done but this is the kind of conversation I think I've had with many of you individually.
It's a great question how are you going to get it done? And you get a little bit out of a Borders bankruptcy.
They'll each grab a few but not a lot but they're going to have to be aggressive and they're going to have to be creative.
And that gets back to the flexibility story where you're going to see them smaller stores smaller markets.
So trust me that they're  all looking at their research and thinking out if we thought we could do X number in a metro market maybe it's that plus 10 and because they can be closer together with a smaller format.
Or just a smaller market in terms of population.
And that's the kind of thing you're going to see from a TJ.
You know they're blowing and going with a core [indiscernible] strategy which wasn't there 2 years ago.
So it all adds up but they know they have their work cut out for them.
It's not an easy task.
And then just given the dispositions obviously your store count by retailer is falling but it seems to be falling the most aggressively for what I would say kind of your more challenged retailers.
And given your comments today Paul I would assume that when you're looking at dispositions you're not only looking at some secondary markets but you're looking at those centers with maybe some troubled real estate retailers? Absolutely Craig and that would include not only dispositions but potential terminations.
I mean reducing our exposure to the retailers that we believe are at risk.
Dan alluded to it a little bit talking about the Internet is an important part of what we are doing.
The more quality we have in the portfolio the better quality the overall portfolio is but you hit it on the head.
It's something we look at regularly and again not only in the disposition.
The single biggest factor is going to be what we think the NOI profile is over the next several years.
And so you can see or you can imagine that would be highly aligned with some of what we believe to be the more challenged tenants and how can we  take a price that might not feel like the ideal cap rate today but based on what we expect the NOI stream to be 2 to 5 years down the road.
It is dramatically better pricing today than we think we could achieve in the future so that's been the process on our side and that's why you see some of the more challenged retailers getting smaller on that one.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman of Citigroup.
In terms of sources and uses in the next few years and sort of this opportunity for growth and Dan I think that you clearly articulated it in your opening comments.
You think the best of redevelopment it sounds like you have a number of acquisitions that are lined up.
You have the development property which doesn't sound like you're going to start but clearly that would require capital at some point or I guess you  could just write it off or sell it.
But probably more of a capital need.
It seems like there's a lot more capital need than capital uses.
And I also think about the dividend which obviously you kept low but eventually you're taxable income is going to revert as you take in some of the depreciation that you're going to be required to have a higher dividend that what you're paying now so it would seem that there's a lot of capital needs and I'm just curious how you think about sourcing that capital and how much capital that is but also the cost of capital.
Because I think you've spent a lot of time on the call talking about your -- what you think is a more competitive cost of capital.
I'm just curious how you think about where that is across the different capital sources that you would have.
I don't think we would completely agree that the uses over the next several years are well in excess of the sources.
I do think particularly on the redevelopment side that we're seeing a greater volume of opportunity than we expected a few years ago just because the retailer interest is much greater in terms of funding that.
You were exactly right.
It's thus far an extremely low dividend payout ratio it's been an important source of capital.
We don't take that lightly and we don't expect that to be the long-term case that we would keep the dividend this low.
We do still think we'll generate some volume of free cash flow in any given period although we would expect the dividend payout ratio to be much higher than it is today in the not too distant future but even with that we still expect some amount of free cash flow.
We continue to make progress on asset sales whether those proceeds go to fund  acquisitions to the extent we can find select opportunities or whether those proceeds are reinvested in redevelopments.
And then finally on the development side we probably do view that at least as much as a source of capital as of a use of capital because even some of the projects we decide to move forward with as was the case with the 2 redevelopments we announced a couple of months ago the first step in that process is a pad sale to a major anchor.
And so I think we can see development projects move forward on a cash-flow  positive basis to DDR even if some of that cash ends up getting reinvested some or all of that cash ends up getting reinvested in the project it doesn't necessarily mean that the only way you can see us go vertical on the site is by putting net more capital in.
And so whether it's the project that moves forward while we're selling pads or whether it's just some of the other monetization of non income-producing assets we think that can be a pretty significant source of proceeds.
Over the next couple of years let's also remember that while the $750 million of predevelopment is a relatively large headline number and one that we think is very achievable we are talking about a 5-year period there and so there's a long period of time to generate proceeds from those other sources to fund that and I think we'd also reiterate given everything we've lived through over the past few years not only is focus on the management team and the board to continue to operate with a lower risk profile but we've also just put a lot more systems modeling risk controls enterprise risk management in place where you asking this question is refreshing because it's something we talk about quite a bit internally.
It's no longer a situation where you're bringing up something that could present a risk but that we haven't talked about it's exactly that we spent time internally and you can absolutely assume that we're not going to push forward on anything that we don't believe is very very appropriately funded with proceeds that we got identified from one of the sources we talked about.
We are pleased that our cost to capital has improved.
We also know the only way that that will continue to be the case is if we continue to operate with great discipline to keep our debt spreads low by not being too reliant on that source of capital and to continue to get to a more attractive price of equity.
And my understanding's that the very high cost of common equity versus other means to generate those proceeds.
I guess how much will equity factor into that? I mean clearly when you took up the preferreds earlier this year that there's an equity swap.
How much more sort of equity do you want to put back into the system.
You're not at your EBITDA -- debt to EBITDA target yet.
You're on target to get there through the EBITDA growth over the next 12 months but clearly things are going to be have to be match funded.
Equity in your assets is one piece but the only other equity sources is common equity.
So how should we think about at what point you see that as an option? I don't think we have any near-term  plans to use that as an option.
I mean we're obviously consistently thinking about the cost of various forms of capital.
We do understand that if there is net asset growth that there is an equity requirement.
But for us we continue to believe that other sources of effective equity are dramatically cheaper than the issuance of new common shares and so when we think about the monetization of non-income producing assets which for covenant purposes and for debt to EBITDA purposes serve at least as attractively as the issuance of new equity as well as the generation of free cash flow through even a normalized payout ratio.
The capital that would come out of that I think those are what we prioritize more highly as the forms of equity that we would be likely to include as part of funding any net growth that you might see in terms of net asset growth.
Just a clarification on same-store NOI.
You show your same-store NOI on a growth share basis as if you own 100% of all joint ventures.
And clearly with Brazil being a large portion of which you only own 1/3 of if you were to strip it down to your pro rata share of same-store NOI what would that growth be? What would happen to that 3.6 and then break it out further between what would U.S.
be and what would Brazil be? If you take Brazil out which is obviously an outlier on the high side it's going to reduce that NOI figure.
However if you take out some of our other large joint ventures they've been generating lower same-store NOI growth either because of the specific assets they own or because of the fact that less capital has been invested in some of those centers to fund new leasing activity.
So some of those the removal of some of the other large joint ventures would actually help if you went to a pro rata basis.
All in you would take the 3.6% for the quarter the 3.8% year-to-date down 75 basis points to 100 basis points depending  on what period you're looking at to think about the true pro rata basis in the mid- to high-2% range.
And that's with Brazil and then you take out U.S.
and U.S.
would probably be 1.5%? No U.S.
would be in excess of 2%.
Even though Brazil is 10% of the total and was up 15% wouldn't that be 1.5% growth? Year-to-date from the U.S.
portfolio overall we're north of 2% and if you take out the joint ventures or if you reduce the influence of the joint ventures that are lower than the consolidated portfolio.
And so if you reduce that to a pro rata share you'd be somewhere in the low 2s.
You're next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Just a few follow-ups considering the redevelopment pipeline I was just curious at  some of the common themes were behind the value creation there.
Is it really just following through I guess I'll call them the deferred CapEx that could be just like facelifts to centers or are these expansions like adding grocers or creating outparcels that you're looking at? It's not deferred CapEx Jeff it really comes from a couple of different areas.
It is expansions of certain centers it's reconfiguring space.
But what's really driving this is tenant demand and tenant flexibility.
We've had situations in centers for a long time in particular the one center in Denver that we announced in the June press release and we've owned that for a long time and we really had no luck redeveloping that even though we've tried for about the last 7 years to do so but tenants' demand is up.
It's a great location and tenants need to be flexible in order to achieve their open to buy goals getting back to Craig's question of how they're going to do it and how they're going to hit their goals is they're going to be flexible on the redevelopment side and look at existing space differently than they've looked at it in the past.
So that has really been the impetus behind the growth of redevelopment because we now have space that may not have been considered viable in the past that's not only considered viable but is highly desirable.
And that's going to continue I think to fuel the growth because like Paul said the development of new space is really not going to be significant at any level any time soon.
LLC</strong> I'm just curious Dan do you think anchors are their expectations around rents are adjusting I guess I'll say quickly? Certainly there was a drop on the asking rents from the prior peak to the trough of the cycle.
How quickly do you think their expectations are adjusting on the way back up? It's coming back.
They're not adjusting up as quickly as they adjusted  down of course.
And if you were a tenant you would do the same thing.
But we are starting to see pricing power return to the portfolio.
You've  seen it in the spreads.
We think that will continue because I think when you asked a question how are you going to meet your growth goals? The short answer from a lot of tenants is they're not really sure how they're going to do that and that means they're going to have to become more flexible they're going to have to become more aggressive on price.
Those of us with some space are going to be a little more patient.
And hopefully that will drive the rentals back to close to where they were.
I don't know if we'll get back to the peak 2007 days but our goal would be to get as close as we can get in as short a period of time as we can but rents clearly don't climb quite as quickly as they drop.
LLC</strong> Just a second question maybe for David what's the volume of non income-producing assets that you guys have on your balance sheet out there and separately maybe as a follow-up to the priors do you attribute the traction in shop-space  leasing I guess I'll call it and pricing specific to the pickup in your anchor occupancy? Or is it something just more macro going on? First on the non income-producing  assets you're going to be less than the $1 billion number we've talked about historically just as we've modified a portion of that.
I think that was the headline number we started talking about a year ago.
You're still going to be approximately 10% of the balance sheet so something in that $850 million-plus  range some of  which will be possible to monetize near term some of which could be quite a ways off but all in the way I still think about it is approximately 10% of the balance sheet non-expedition assets.
And the other part of the question Jeff clearly there's been some improvement in leasing of the small-shop  space because of the filling of  vacant boxes for example.
There's no secret that when you have a better mousetrap with better quality anchors and draws you're going to achieve more success.
The other thing we're seeing with the small shops that there's been improved credit available but it's not overwhelming.
We're seeing great pickup in franchisees and as we've seen in the franchise companies play bank.
They know they have to lend to their respective franchisees if they're going to grow so we've seen some improvement in that but there is clearly a relationship to an improved center in terms of the leasing progress in the small-shop  space.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Jeff got most of my questions on the redevelopments but maybe one thing of the $750 million about how many projects does that include? A significant number of projects Michael.
They run the range from -- we can have one at maybe in the $40-million or $50-million  range and we've got some that are in the $5 million to $10 million.
I would say most of them are going to be in that $10 million range.
So as we go along we're seeing some more that are significant spends.
We had some initially which were even in the $2.5 million to $5 million spend but a lot of the things and I don't think we hit on it yet one of the areas we're working is where we are converting small-shop  space to anchor space.
I mean that clearly is a redevelopment and the right thing for the asset and it's a great upside to the NOI.
But in terms of an exact number we have not pinned that down at this point.
And then on the new leasing spreads I understand the rationale for focusing more on the lease I guess the lease-spreads  space that's been vacant less than 12 months but if you would throw in the vacancies greater than 12 months how different would the lease spreads be?  They would still be positive correct? Absolutely.
They'd be less but they'd still be positive.
It's not a calculation we're doing anymore Michael.
But I think more importantly as I've talked about on a few occasions is that the rents are up quarter-over-quarter.
So the first year starting rent you can see that right in the -- there's an improvement in first year rents whether it's vacant for a year or not or greater.
So we're seeing that.
And the other thing is again I keep coming back to that renewal spread.
That is a big big deal and something we should all be focused on and it continues to grow.
I'm very confident we'll stay positive.
New deal spreads you'll see some bouncing around.
It's going to be a function of the deals made in any quarter.
Renewals we're seeing consistent improvement in the renewal spreads and that is a big deal.
And as leasing gets better for obvious reasons less chance of risk of people threatening to walk away and more and more taking their options.
And to Paul's point Mike the importance of the renewal spread which is where we spend most of our time focused is simply that's the vast majority of the activity in the quarter depending on the quarter or depending on even the year if you go back and look it's between 75% and 80% of our total activity is on renewals.
So the renewal spread number is the one that we focus on very closely that gives us a good indicator on overall health out there number 1 what the retention rate is and number 2 how the renewal spreads work and that's the one that we've been most enthusiastic about as we've seen the recovery within the portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Sullivan of Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Two quick questions.
First of all kind of a follow-up to the commentary on spreads.
I'm curious to what extent if any we keep hearing that retailer margins are going to be squeezed in the second half apparel food and some other categories.
To what extent if any do the retailers mention this and push back in terms of any rental spreads.
Is it something that just noise enters into negotiations or does it come up at all? It's mentioned Jim but it doesn't carry a lot of weight.
One of the things -- first of all they're not all sure how these margins are going to be squeezed.
We're all concerned and we're going into the back half now and there's a little bit of caution but we've yet to see the margin squeeze.
I mean some of it is going to be predictable but the other thing when you're negotiating a rent with a tenant is a spike in cotton prices is not a forever situation.
Rent is a long-term proposition and that's one of the things we remind them of.
Just the fact that you had a spike in cotton cotton's come down.
We're not going to lock in a 10-year rental  based on the potential for margins being squeezed because of commodity pricing.
Again it comes up it hasn't been a significant factor at this point.
LLC</strong> The second question really goes to one of the slides that is in your presentation that you gave in May reads the Five-Year Plan slide call it if you will where you talk about same-store NOI on a I guess a post-recovery  period a range of 1.5 to 2.
And I guess I'm trying to square that with when we look back over the last 10 years the average same-store NOI growth was just a little below that even if we include 2009 and given all the commentary regarding focusing on improving significantly the average asset quality the initiatives in terms of ancillary income and how successful they've been that 1.5% to 2% number and also presumably that includes the impact of what you're doing outside the U.S.
it seems like that's a pretty conservative estimate.
I'm just curious if you would comment on that? We agree.
We think it's a conservative estimate but of course that number as we are putting together the Five-Year Plan at the end of last year quite frankly there were a lot of initiatives that we had that needed to go according to plan in order for us to meet those strategic initiatives over a five-year period of time.
And a lot of things had to go right.
The good news is a lot of things have gone right and I would be disappointed if we couldn't beat that number going forward particularly with the improvement of the overall quality of the portfolio domestically.
It's been  very very significant.
So I think your point is a good one.
We don't want to put ourselves in a position where we overpromise and under deliver at any given time to this market and at the time that we put those numbers together we're looking at things and the risk involved and the execution we felt that that was the appropriate numbers.
That was the appropriate number in the appropriate range.
If we could beat it I think that's great.
But we also have to keep in mind that there are things in the market today that are still working against us that we need to overcome.
And we'll continue to work towards beating all the numbers that we present to you.
LLC</strong> Just kind of a follow-up question.
The redevelopment spending effort and initiative.
Albeit it's going to be spread over many years and there could be smaller projects and bigger projects.
But I'm assuming that from a modeling standpoint the contribution for that will be in addition to the same-store NOI growth.
That is correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But just along Jim's line of questioning.
When we do look back at the Five-Year Plan presented at the Investor Day I know it's only 4 months into them but could you talk a little bit how confident you are about hitting some of those marks and just at this point in the cycle how you would grade yourself relative to those initiatives that you're taking on? You're exactly right.
It's a short period of time since the plan was created late last year and since the plan was rolled out publicly at our Investor Day in March.
That said we're pushing hard every day to execute.
We're pleased with the progress thus far through approximately 10%.
But the period of time that we originally outlined in the plan we still feel that the goals are achievable but on the other side of that no one here is going to be happy if we simply achieve those goals.
So we're not just pushing to get there and take the last few years of that plan off.
We're pushing to get there as quickly as possible and keep pushing beyond there so happy with execution over the first 6 months or so and expect to be able to show you a lot more as we look out over the next few quarters.
Just from a process perspective we'll be reviewing that plan on an annual basis with our board as we do every -- at a board retreat every November.
And we'll do it again this November and we'll look at where we are right we'll look at where we were wrong we'll look at how the market has changed and how we'll need to adjust.
And accordingly -- and obviously since we have a lot of communication with many of you on a regular basis we'll be presenting you with changes to that plan based on what we see as market conditions that are either positive or negative.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Dave I have a question for you on the mezzanine loan impairment.
What was that exactly? It was a sale of a loan that we had made approximately 4 years ago as part of a prior investment thesis and more of an FFO driven strategy to make some mezzanine loan investments that  can generate FFO.
We still have a few of those on our books.
This was one where we have the opportunity to either invest more capital and potentially or likely get all of our principal out over a multiyear period of time or to exit earlier but accept less than the par amount on the loan.
Given the non-retail underlying property type we certainly thought while there was some economic rationale for further investment we really thought with the strategic plan we've outlined we talked about internally and externally that it made more sense to take some capital out reinvest that proceeds in our core business rather than go further down the path with that specific mezz loan.
The majority of the mezz loans or loans at all on our books today a great majority are tied to high-quality  power centers and so while they might be wrapped in a little different portion of the capital stack the underlying pieces of prime power centers is very much what the majority of that capital is invested in but still have a few vestiges of prior activity.
LLC</strong> So are you doing any more of those or is that not something that you guys are looking at? Any more new mezzanine loans? Certainly not outside of the retail space.
Selectively I think especially as competitive as the acquisition market is if we had looked to gain involvement in a high-quality project then we have an interest in owning and ability to own and manage attractively we would certainly consider it but I would expect it to represent a small minority of our overall investment activity.
LLC</strong> And then when you guys look at dispositions.
I know you had and you still have a portfolio that you're trying to get rid of as a block how realistic-- it seems like I'm not hearing much in the way of interest whether it's on the mall side or the community-center side from buyers in a portfolio.
Obviously they're interested in individual assets but the portfolio seems to be more difficult.
What do you guys think about that? Our portfolios are more difficult and in particular today in our case the quality of what's left to sell because we've sold so much already is pretty low.
And as a result if you really look at some of the larger portfolio sectors that have sold while you could argue that overall the quality may not have been overly high there was some very high-quality assets contained that made a certain percent of the overall portfolio.
A lot of what you're seeing out there today doesn't have any percentage of high-quality assets in the portfolio.
And as a result I think astute buyers are recognizing that they'd be wiser to cherry pick than to buy en masse.
Your next question comes from the line of Carol Kemple of Hilliard Lyons.
What percent of your portfolio was actually occupied in the second quarter in paying rent? 90.5%.
So is that spread a little tighter than from the first quarter? Just a little bit Carol 250 basis points and I believe we reported 240 basis points at the end of the first quarter.
We should see that come down a little bit with the openings in the third and fourth quarter.
Keep in mind that's a very seasonal number because very few tenants open in the first and second quarter third quarter things pick up with back-to-school and obviously in the fourth quarter everyone wants to be open.
And you all talked about earlier in the call that at some point you're going to have to raise the dividend can you give any kind of timing or estimate of when you think that will be? Obviously dividend policy is a board decision.
We've said publicly that until we had made  considerable progress reducing the risk profile of the balance sheet that it was not something that management would recommend to the board.
At this point I think we had really set that last step in that process the refinancing of the term loan the extension of that maturity and the removal of a large majority of the maturities from 2012 is being an important catalyst for that.
We've clearly executed on that at this point and so we're much more open with that behind us to thinking about higher dividend and to recommending a higher dividend over the coming quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Just a follow-up question.
Just as we think about the longer-term occupancy ranges in that less than 5 000 square foot range in light of the redevelopment projects you've identified I mean how much of the vacancy improvement comes from those redevelopment projects where you're taking back some space maybe from those smaller tenants? And then outside of that it seems like national and regional tenants are really the ones that are sucking that space up and  small true mom and pops not really showing any signs of real growth.
If that stays the case is there enough demand from the national and regional players the franchisees and whatnot  to take that back to the 80 80-ish call it normalized range? We're not getting that far ahead of it Vince but it's clearly as I said earlier we see 300 basis points of improvement which would get us to about 86 in that category.
Some of that but not a significant amount yet is because of redevelopment.
I think I mentioned in the script in one of the projects in Puerto Rico we actually took 4 vacant spaces and vacant  for a significant amount of time and turned it into one PetSmart so that's where redevelopment did reduce that vacancy rate.
But we've already seen the space.
Keep in mind we're 2.5 3 years beyond when this whole problem with small-shop  space started.
So we've had a lot of fallout.
And to grow back is what we would expect and again we're not getting crazy and thinking 88 is in the immediate future but we certainly see a few 100 basis points of improvement there.
And it is more national there's no doubt.
But I say that there's national change also that our franchise changed.
When you're dealing with mom and pops who are the franchisees at the end of the day they're getting credit bills from those franchise companies and that's a significant part of the growth received in that category.
But you think to get back to the 86 range even the 300 basis points you think that can be done via the regionals and nationals where you're seeing a demand from today? Yes.
You don't need the small -- the true mom and pops to come back to get there? No but we're going to see some come back.
We're not counting on it but we will see some.
Your next question comes from the line of Cedric Lechance [ph] of Green Street Advisors.
Just in regards to TI packages you did a great job providing us the information on that front.
Would you be able to give us an idea of the average TI package on a per square foot per year for small shop tenants versus anchor tenants? The small shop it's next to nothing Cedric I mean there's very little TI package in the small-shop  space.
In the larger stuff we've been re-tenanting the boxes that came back to us a few years ago.
as we've said consistently we've seen it come down but that could be in the $20 $25 a foot range.
But when you average in the small shops there's very little and in fact in very few cases where we've got allowances for the small shops.
And just going back to one of the earlier comments you made Paul actually.
So if you haven't seen the GAAP in terms of demand from retailers and availability of goods supply on your part for your entire career it would  seem to suggest to me that either rents are going to spike quite dramatically at some point or that development is going to pick up.
In which direction do you think we're most generally headed? Rents.
I would tell you that I don't know that spike up is the word I'd use but it's been consistent improvement over the last 2.5 years Cedric.
We're seeing it enter the conversations we have every day.
There's not enough development even when if that comes back that's  going to move the needle on that supply side.
That's a big thing to remember on this.
We're just not going to see retailers chase future residential growth which isn't there and nobody knows when it's going to come back.
So limited development will take some of the demand.
But we're going to see growth in rent.
It's that simple.
I think it's also important Cedric to keep in mind that on the development side the entitlement risk out there is still great.
People talk about development almost like you can flick a switch sometimes and it can automatically appear.
Even if rents go up to the point where development becomes much more attractive that doesn't mean the entitlement situation is going to become any easier and companies like ours are going to be able to deliver product in a timely manner.
So the nice thing about having existing space is that it exists so you control exactly what you can do with it.
The problem with development is while yes you need tenants to pay the appropriate level of rent in order to justify the investment and the return there's a whole bunch of third parties out there who can control whether that space ever gets built or not and really controls your project much more so than you do existing space.
So that's why I mean I totally agree with Paul.
I think the thing we're going to see is we're going to see rents trail up and rents may trail up to the point where developments at some point look attractive.
But that still doesn't mean they get done because of all the other factors that are necessary to actually  put a shovel in the ground.
Cedric and I'll give you one example by the way of what I'm talking about and what's happening with the demand in the rents and on the Borders situation.
We've got one that's coming back with the latest wave of liquidation where we've got 2 of the junior anchors we've all been talking about regularly.
Fighting for the space is fun.
We're seeing a competition like we haven't seen.
We're going to achieve somewhere in the 14 to 14.5 range on space that I'm telling you would have leased for $9 2.5 years ago.
And that's part of the story.
Now that's a very positive exception to the rule but that's what we're going to see more of.
At this time there are no further questions in the queue.
And I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you all very much for joining us and we look forward  to speaking with you next quarter.
Have a nice weekend.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 DDR Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Samir Khanal Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from President and CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and development Paul Freddo; and Chief Financial Officer David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFOs.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
Last we will be observing a one question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Samir.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call.
I'd like to begin the call with a brief discussion about the status of DDR corporately.
It is important to note that today regardless of market volatility DDR has become both financially and operationally a stable and growing company.
And while it appears that as though market fluctuations will continue I assure you that such volatility does not accurately reflect the stability of our capital structure nor the consistency reflected in our operating metrics.
Simply put while the market may be volatile we are not.
Since the trough of the cycle we have reduced debt by about 30% extended our debt maturity profile from 3 years to 4.5 years increased our portfolio leased rate by 270 basis points to 93.4% leased and have sold $2.3 billion of non-prime and non-income-producing assets.
And we are not done.
When we laid out our plan in 2009 to address the various hurdles we needed to overcome we vowed to be better prepared for the next capital market's dislocation.
While the past several months have certainly highlighted the magnitude and speed at which markets can change direction as a management team we are confident in the position of the company to benefit from the opportunities that always arise from market corrections.
In that regard and looking forward we see tremendous opportunities for continued growth combined with balance sheet and asset quality improvement.
With regard to our capital recycling strategy we continue to see demand for non-prime assets and have also been successful disposing of non-income-producing assets in land held for development.
While non-prime asset sales will decelerate due primarily to our progress to date and the size of the remaining bucket we are confident we will soon achieve our strategic goal of 90% of total NOI being derived from our prime portfolio.
Currently 88.3% of the total NOI comes from prime assets.
With non-prime assets under contract for sale and continued disposition of non-income-producing assets coupled with prime asset acquisitions achieving 90% is years ahead of schedule.
As announced at quarter end we reinvested $150 million from non-prime dispositions into prime asset acquisitions.
In 2011 that will contribute to the continued growth and improvement of our portfolio.
In addition to the assets purchased we are working towards the closing of the previously announced asset swap with our friends at Glimcher in which DDR will sell Leawood Town Center in Kansas City and acquire Polaris Towne Center a power center in Columbus Ohio.
This transaction highlights our continued focus on simplifying our message and portfolio ownership by taking a creative approach to its sourcing opportunities.
And to further simplify our story during the quarter we changed our name and launched a new brand identity.
While development is still a core competency it no longer warrants top billing and from an asset-ownership perspective we aspire to be the premier owner of prime power centers which renders the word "diversified" as completely inaccurate.
As a result we thank you for your embrace of the new name DDR Corp.
The market reaction has been overwhelmingly positive.
I will now turn the call over to Paul to discuss portfolio operations and share his perspective on the retail landscape.
Thank you Dan.
I'll spend some time today talking about the retail environment the strong connection between retailer and consumer and what we're hearing from retailers about holiday expectations.
While we can all acknowledge that we are shadowed by an unstable macroeconomic backdrop with a future impact that is not fully understood the supply and demand dynamic is dramatically different than in 2008.
Landlords retailers and consumers alike are better prepared making calculated decisions and are capable of successfully navigating today's uncertain times.
Furthermore for those retailers able to take advantage of lessons learned in the past recession today presents a compelling opportunity to gain market share maintain and grow margins and continue to execute upon steady growth plans.
We need not look any further than recent retail sales reports to confirm this trend as productivity and stores continues to outpace the macroeconomic news.
At DDR our commitment to upgrading the quality of our portfolio is translating into results; results in the form of higher average rent per square foot new deal leasing spreads in the mid-teens and year-over-year net effective rent growth.
Despite a smaller portfolio the combination of our higher-quality shopping centers and persistent retailer demand resulted in more new leases being signed in the third quarter than in any previous quarter in the company's history.
Quite simply demand for quality real estate remains robust.
In the third quarter we signed 220 new leases for 973 000 square feet with a positive spread of 16% and 296 renewals for 1.6 million square feet with a positive spread of 6%.
In total we completed 516 deals for over 2.5 million square feet with a blended spread of 7%.
As a result our domestic leased rate is now 93.1% a 30-basis point increase over last quarter and 110-basis point increase over the third quarter of 2010.
Including Brazil our leased rate is now 93.4%.
This represents our sixth straight quarter of positive leasing spreads and reflects the continued demand we are seeing from retailers.
Though we do not expect to see new lease spread levels this high every quarter due to the natural mix of deals we do expect spreads to remain comfortably positive.
It is important to note that this growth will be partially reflected in our income statement in the coming year with full annual impact showing up in 2013.
I would like to briefly address Brazil's impact on operating metrics and why it is relevant to our business and important to these disclosures.
Brazil represents 8% of our NOI and continues to grow.
While others have exposure to emerging markets it is likely a less significant factor and may not warrant inclusion due to the immaterial nature of the contribution.
However 8% is material and will be disclosed as such.
Quite simply when you invest in DDR you are investing in the U.S.
Puerto Rico and Brazil with Puerto Rico and Brazil accounting for almost 25% of total NOI.
Turning back to domestic.
With the continued evolution of the supply and demand dynamic we are experiencing in the Power Center business it begs the question when will development be a viable growth alternative? While retailers continue to show a willingness to pay more for the right location they are still unwilling to take lesser space based on reduced rental rates alone.
When you couple retail demand with limited new supply the fact is simple: existing quality space is worth more.
However the increased level of demand does not necessarily translate into a rush for new ground-up development.
On a risk-adjusted basis yields on most new ground-up development projects do not yet make economic sense.
So the positive leasing momentum on existing space will continue for the foreseeable future.
In contrast redevelopment continues to serve as a significant growth driver for retailers in need of new stores.
As you might have seen in our recent Puerto Rico redevelopment press release we are investing $50 million in what are some of our most productive assets and project to generate a return of over 10%.
Consistent with the U.S.
the demand for space on the island is robust with retailers preferring to take newly configured space in proven quality centers not risking their growth on untested new developments with the certainty of product and consumer traffic is left to projections and unproven operating results.
The sales productivity of the assets we are reinvesting in ranges from $400 to $520 per square foot which tells a very compelling story to prospective tenants.
For the consumer we've seen no real wage or employment growth since the recession.
This has forced the consumer to manage their personal balance sheets and as seen by the continued positive same store sales results and healthy margins achieved by many retailers over the past year.
Our tenants have appropriately refined merchandising and sales strategies to match the appetite and spending capability of the consumer.
And while sales are one indicator of a retailer's health the operating margin is what is most important as they pay rent with margin not with comp store sales.
And when it comes to margin there is nothing more important than inventory level and inventory turns.
Inventory level plays a critical role on a retailer's bottom line and no season is more important to the bottom line than the upcoming holiday season.
It's important to note that shipping levels at the 5 largest U.S.
ports are down 5% to 10% compared to 2010 levels.
This shows a positive level of inventory discipline that should translate into controlled markdowns and predictable margins regardless of comp store sales.
Lower inventory levels should not be viewed as retailer pessimism regarding holiday sales but more importantly as sensible business planning.
As you recall the reason retailers struggled in 2008 was because they had too much inventory and had to sell at deep discounts dramatically reducing margins.
Today retailers are on a much better position to sell inventory at close to full price as they continue to manage their businesses effectively.
Retailers would much rather make arrangements for last minute deliveries or what it's often referred to as chasing inventory due to higher levels of demand than to eat away at margins by lowering inventory turnover and selling products at deeply discounted prices.
Simply put retailers are more willing to miss a sale this holiday season than to mark it down.
From what I'm also hearing from retailers the expectations are for holiday sales to be marginally positive.
Back-to-school sales are a great indicator of holiday sales and August and September sales were up roughly 5%.
Furthermore the vast majority of prime retailers of our prime retailers have been increasing earnings guidance.
Walmart TJX PetSmart Kohl's Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Ross Dick Sporting Goods and Kroger are just a handful of our top tenants that have increased earnings guidance in 2011.
As evidenced by the progress we've made in the leasing of our former Borders boxes the retailers' need for quality locations top line growth and their desire to grow market share will continue to be the driving force behind the demand we continue to see across our portfolio.
And I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
For the third quarter operating FFO is $67.4 million or $0.24 per share which is in line with our estimates.
Including non-operating items FFO for the quarter was $8.1 million or $0.03 per share.
Non-operating items were primarily noncash impairment charges mainly the results of recently accelerated plans to sell developed land in Russia and Canada.
Gains of approximately $7 million on asset sales were also recognized during the quarter and are excluded from both FFO and operating FFO.
Fourth quarter transactional activity may lead to additional gains and losses including the Leewood transaction where we expect to record a gain of approximately $60 million related to the swap that Dan described in his remarks.
As you notice from our press release we are tightening our guidance for 2011 operating FFO per share on both ends to $0.95 to $1 per share.
While we are very pleased that the pace of investments has accelerated we have continued to be a net seller of properties in 2011.
Despite this and the accelerated refinancings earlier this year we are pleased to maintain our original guidance midpoint.
That speaks volumes about overall portfolio performance and sends many encouraging signs for long term.
We are proud to be the leader among retail REITs in recycling capital.
Proceeds from asset sales represent an extremely valuable source of capital and we remain confident that acquisitions and redevelopment projects funded with this equity will create significant future value.
For the first 9 months of this year asset sales generated $166 million of proceeds and we closed on $150 million of prime acquisitions.
We also have a pipeline of disposition that could generate nearly $200 million of additional proceeds over the next 2 quarters.
While asset sales will decelerate in 2012 primarily due to progress made to date in the reduced remaining non-prime inventory we are pleased with the portfolio realignment achieved through our Asset Management strategy.
In addition to acquisitions future sales proceeds will fund lower risk redevelopment activity such as the new stores and expansions that we have announced recently with target Walmart and the investments in our portfolio and supply constraint in Puerto Rico.
We believe this activity will result in a more valuable NOI stream with better long-term growth prospects.
While much of the incremental NOI for redevelopment investments won't come online until 2013 or later this effort will create net asset value which is consistent with our long-term objectives.
We are also pleased to report progress on our effort to monetize some of our non-income-producing assets.
During the coming quarters we expect to close on the sale of development land in Russia and Canada that will result in sales proceeds of approximately $35 million.
In Russia the Yaroslavl development represents an in-field vertical development and while a viable project offers no strategic fit to our portfolio.
At this point the liquidity that can be generated from this proposed sale is more valuable to us than holding out for a higher value that could be recognized over time which was a basis for estimating fair value when we wrote this investment down in mid-2010.
With respect to Canada we are under contract to exit the only non-retail development site we have in Toronto.
We have decided to dispose of our interest in these projects and will invest the capital in projects where DDR can add greater value.
In addition to generating the capital to fund the activity with better risk-adjusted returns these transactions improve our debt to EBITDA ratios through the elimination [indiscernible] that further lower our risk profile.
Over the last few years you have heard us frequently mention the need to maintain access to all possible pools of capital and the recent volatility in the equity and debt market highlight why this is so important for commercial real estate companies.
Our significant efforts over the past few years to lower and balance the leverage profile of DDR just put us in much stronger position today than in the past with much fewer near-term maturities.
The market for corporate debt as CMBS said is currently uncertain.
But we have no need to access either in the near term.
Balance sheet lenders continue to bid aggressively on high-quality shopping centers such as ours and we are very pleased with terms of secured loans that we have closed recently.
During the quarter we closed $162 million of financings with 3 life insurance companies.
The new loans have a weighted average interest rate of 5.1% where used retire debt with a weighted average interest rate of 6.1% and resulted in excess proceeds of more than $40 million while extending our average debt maturity more than 9 years on those loans.
We maintain a significant portfolio of high-quality unencumbered assets.
So if the spread between the cost of secured debt and unsecured debt remains wide for an extended period of time.
We could certainly raise additional mortgage debt to fund our maturities and still maintain more than adequate cushion on our unencumbered asset ratios.
Our 2012 consolidated debt maturities consist of $180 million of convertible notes due in March $220 million of unsecured notes that mature in October and approximately $90 million of mortgage debt.
We have nearly $600 million of capacity in our revolving credit facilities retain a considerable portion of free cash flow have access to attractively priced secured debt expect to continue to generate capital through asset sales and numerous other potential options under consideration.
So we believe these maturities to be quite manageable.
The last item that I want to cover this morning is our common stock dividend.
The $0.06 dividend paid earlier this month represents a 50% increase from the second quarter.
[indiscernible] an annualized basis still results in a very low payout ratio of approximately 25% of operating FFO.
Today we remain confident in our long-term prospects and would expect to be in a position to recommend additional increases to our Board of Directors in the coming quarters while still retaining an above average percentage of free cash flow.
We believe that the value creation and mixed dividend we have underway combined with a safe and growing dividend and improving leverage ratios provide a compelling opportunity for investors with long-term focus.
At this point I'll stop and turn the call back over to Dan for closing remarks.
Thank you David.
In conclusion I'd like to highlight our continued focus on corporate governance and the evolution of our Board of Directors.
On September 19 we announced the addition of Rebecca Maccardini to our Board of Directors.
Ms.
Maccardini brings to our board unparalleled shopping center operations experience international marketing expertise deep industry relationships and additional board diversity in gender and in thought.
Ms.
Maccardini was the first female ICSC worldwide chairman and has a 35-year tenure in the shopping center industry.
The addition of Rebecca marks the fifth new Board member since March of 2009 and highlights our continued focus to enhance board-level engagement corporate governance and best practices for all board-related activities.
Before we turn the call over to questions as Samir mentioned earlier as many of you know we have always tried and attempted to make ourselves easily available for questions within this forum.
While we have tried to limit questions to a maximum of 2 we really haven't done a very good job on enforcing that.
As a result and accepting the advice of many on this call we're going to try to police the process a little better.
Each caller will be limited to one question and then placed back into listen-only mode while being answered.
If there's a follow up you are welcome to reenter the queue and we'd be happy to take your question.
This should enable all questioners to interact with management in a more efficient and timely manner.
Thank you for your understanding and we look forward to giving this a try.
With that operator we will be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Samit Parikh from ISI.
Research Division</strong> My question really is about guidance.
I know you guys tightened  guidance for the year but it still sort of leaves a fairly wide range for the fourth quarter.
Could you just discuss sort of the drivers to get -- that could be -- get you maybe to the higher end of that range in the fourth quarter or to the lower end? Yes.
So we're happy that year-to-date we have been able to keep same guidance midpoint throughout the year.
We've tightened that consistently throughout the year and so don't want you to think that there's any sort of unforeseen variability in the results.
That said as we continue to make sure that our numbers are as credible as possible wanted to make sure that we do have a range in there and as we think about it with not much of the year left but still a few factors that could move around.
You've got exchange rates in Brazil that have been more volatile than we've seen in recent times.
You've got a LIBOR rate that's been very consistent recently but it's only a couple of years ago that we saw the dramatic spike in LIBOR in the fourth quarter.
In terms of operating results I don't think we see much that can change percentage rents and seasonal we've seen are pretty well known and a very very small part of results.
So I don't think we view there to be much variability at all in the operating results.
But do acknowledge there are few things on the financial side that could push the numbers $0.01 or $0.02 in either direction.
And so we just want to make sure that we've got a range that contemplates that and creates an extremely low-risk profile that we end up outside of that range.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> David just with regard to the converts and bonds that mature next year what are your other options for more permanent refinancing if the bond market remain status quo? And can you also address the term loan in the credit facilities in the Crest JV where are you in talks on refinancing those and would both partners potentially have to pay down some of the equity? For the consolidated debt maturities the $180 million of converts 220-and-change-million of unsecured notes.
We are seeing just in the past week or 2 weeks an improvement in the bond market.
I think our base case is that we'll be able to access the unsecured market at some point over the next 6 to 12 months to access long-term unsecured debt the way we did earlier this year at 475 rate for 7-year paper.
We would hope that some of the volatility we've seen just in the past couple  months abates at some point during that multi-quarter window that we have to be able to raise unsecured notes during that time to replace the existing unsecured maturities.
That said we're certainly not counting on that and so we do have other plans in place.
We've got a significant unencumbered asset pool.
We've been through this before where the unsecured markets were closed in a much more troubling time with much more near-term maturities.
And we were able to raise considerable secured debt and attractive price in that environment and I think we believe that would be the case again today.
So to the extent that the unsecured market isn't there for us at acceptable pricing there's considerable access and we've shown it on a consistent quarterly basis to the secured market where we believe we could raise at least that $400 million at a price somewhere depending on where rates are in a given day somewhere in the 4% -- in the 4% to 5% range for 10-year paper.
So I think we believe that's a very strong backup plan that we're advancing today but would expect to see some rationalization in the unsecured market that would allow us to do a deal there.
In addition we mentioned the asset sale proceeds the considerable free cash flow as some of the other means that we do have to address those maturities.
And thinking about the joint venture maturities the great majority of those are in our DDR TC venture which is the venture of with TIA-CREF extremely large sophisticated well-capitalized partner we're in discussions with the lender on the 5-year note that matures in 2012.
We're also in discussions with a consortium of banks that comprise the line of credit for that venture that represents the large majority of the maturities.
For next year and between us and TIAA-CREF  Resources we would feel confident that we get that done that we get that refinanced and extended as we look out over the next several quarters but active negotiations today and so don't want your say too much there.
But we are well positioned to deal with those based on the quality underlying assets and like I said a quality and well capitalized partner where if we did fund some capital and we'd capable of doing that talking to lenders today about what exactly the outcome is going to be there.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Given your success in Brazil I'm just wondering if you're considering any expansion into other areas of South America.
We are not.
We feel that given the current conditions in Brazil and the current opportunities in Brazil that is where we should direct our attention to make sure that we're maximizing the value that we've already harvested in Brazil.
There are other opportunities that do come our way from time to time.
But we want to be very very focused on really 3 factors of our business Craig.
It's Puerto Rico it's domestic U.S.
and it's Brazil.
And we think  that that's a prudent way to approach the business.
And we'll continue in that manner.
Doesn't mean we don't look at things but very rarely do things get to a level where we give it serious consideration.
Yes.
And you're not going to see this company misinterpret again the success of a great investment and platform that we helped build in Brazil with the notion that it goes to our ego and said that need to be a massive South American consolidator.
So I think we feel great about what we have today but would really struggle to see how we add anywhere close to as much value entering a new market.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
It looks like you guys made some progress in leasing of the small shop space.
Can you just a little bit more about that and what kind of tenants are moving in? Yes.
Quite frankly it's still a struggle in that category.
And as you might have seen in the supplement and in fact the only the smallest category of space we have between 0 and 2 500 was our only size category with a slight decline.
And one thing that's important to know is that it's not a significant number that moves the needle a little each way and some of that was actually planned from some redevelopment operations.
But what we are seeing on the positive side continues to be improvement in the franchise area.
UPS is one that comes to mind that we're working very closely with and achieving great success with those guys as they get back in the game.
The food categories are some of the more active tenants in that space.
And I think one of the things we all need to focus on is that we continue whether it's through asset sales or redevelopment or just general lease-up.
We will continue to improve that and I don't want anybody looking at that small negative in the third quarter of '11 is any kind of trend because it won't be.
We're still confident we'll get that smallest category up with the rest of the portfolio somewhere in the mid-80s high 80s as we continue to lease up the portfolio and get closer to a full occupancy situation.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> When you started your discussion today you talked about the stability of the company and the balance sheet and all the kind of tumultuous financial markets.
I think about that the fewer number of moving pieces that you have in '12 with you kind of running through the non-core non-prime asset sales why not think about just recalibrating the dividend.
I mean it's still at a very low payout ratio.
And I know it's growing and it has room to grow.
But have you considered what are the reasons why you might not just consider more of a step up to get to a yield closer to the peers?.
Yes.
That's a great question.
It's something we talk about on a regular basis both as a management team and with our board.
One of the things that we wanted to make sure as we look at enterprise risk management and the status of the company and the status of the market is that when we do go to that level we want to make sure that we are as stable as we can be and that we are operating in a market that has some forward visibility which has not been the case for quite some time and most importantly as we mentioned in prior calls we want to make sure that we were in a position where all of our debt maturities were very manageable.
And we think we are at that point.
We had a significant raise from a percentage standpoint in the dividend recently.
And as David mentioned in the script it's something that we will have a conversation with our board about in the very near future because we do think that 2012 presents an opportunity for us to have additional increases as we look at the overall portfolio the operations and we realize quite frankly that this is as stable as DDR has been in recent memory for sure.
So we hear you we agree.
It is absolutely our goal to get our dividend in line with our industry peers and we will work towards that and it is a constant source of conversation but most importantly it is clearly a sign of our comfort level and the stability of the company.
And from a management team we are there.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Dan just want to go to your sort of similar your initial comments talking about the health of the company.
If you look over the past few months when the world started to melt apart again in August September CBS[ph] gapped out.
You guys went from being under the REIT average for CBS[ph] to being well outside.
Thankfully everything's retightening.
But just sort of curious were your comments driven because you were seeing an impact from a corporate or liquidity standpoint from the CBS[ph] gap out? Or were your comments totally separate from the CBS[ph] gap out and sort of just trying to understand how your bondholders your lenders look at CBS[ph] that we see on Bloomberg versus your internal financials.
Sure.
It really had no impact on us and my comments are really outside of that.
My comments are really -- there are certainly times in the last several months where it looked like that people were playing the 2008 card all over again.
And while frustrating to see that when it completely ignores the progress that we've made to date we recognize the fact it will take some time for the market to truly understand the progress that we've made.
But I thought it was important at least to say that while there is volatility in the market and while we still trade as a high-data[ph] name and we do still have a higher leverage than our peer group average and we recognize that.
The strategy is the same the success rate will be the same.
Our focus is absolutely directed towards all the strategic objectives that we have outlined to you in the past.
And that while some folks might want to play a 2008 card this is not a 2008 company.
And that's really what I was trying to indicate was that we are not particularly volatile.
If you look at our operating performance if you look at our guidance and what we're coming in with our guidance there's certain level of consistency and predictability with us that would certainly indicate anything but volatility.
But that being said we recognize that we have a history and we recognize the fact that we do live in a bigger world then just the one in which we currently trade and there were impacts on the company as a result.
And we're sensitive to that.
But we just wanted people to be certainly reassured and reminded that we are not the same company today than we were in 2008 and we are completely committed to our strategy to continue to improve the financial metrics of this company in a way that we've outlined.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dan can you talk about what you're hearing from retailers about net square footage growth over the next 2 to 3 years? And just maybe if I could squeak in a second part just remind us when the lion's share of the gap between your percentage leased and commenced is realized for you guys? Yes I'll share the answer with Paul.
But I think that question is interesting and very very timely Jeff because there is a lot of speculation in the market and a lot of chatter about what about downsizing and things of that nature and what you're hearing from the retailers in that regard.
I think a little perspective in this sort of sea of speculation is probably in order.
One of the things that we don't have to do is we don't have to guess.
We have access to the retailers that are talking about downsizing.
We have met with them Paul and his team are with them on a regular basis.
So taking a look at some of the facts that we have and what we're hearing is actually pretty interesting and it goes to the total immaterial nature of what the potential downsizing for a company like ours could be.
If you look at the store like Best Buy which has talked about downsizing and you look at the office supply stores et cetera et cetera.
As we talk to those guys in the best case scenario where they had either some leverage or a very very strong desire over very extended period of time we might see something in the neighborhood of 350 000 square feet of space that gets returned to our portfolio.
And to put that in perspective it's going to end up being less than 3% of our annual volume of leasing.
And probably just from a reference standpoint the space that we're talking about on the reduction side represents about 9% of the bank of space we got back over the last few years which is already leased or sold in the high 90% range.
So you're talking about an opportunity that -- and by the way in many cases we would like that opportunity to be better because we like the concept of marking to market space in 95-plus  percent lease prime assets.
So if we can mark space to market we can make a lot more money.
But we're really not going to get a lot of that back.
And I think this is going to be one of those situations where there's much more chatter in the market about it much more guessing much more speculation and actually much less execution than what people are concerned about and what they're talking about.
The best way though that we're dealing with this Jeff is to not guess.
People like to make statements like we are concerned about precipitous downsizing in the sector.
That's a pure guess.
So what we're doing is we're spending a lot of time with the retailers we're quantifying the number.
And as a result we're looking at what the potential impact could be both positively and negatively.
And the truth is it's immaterial.
And I think if that changes obviously we'll let you know.
But we are not in the business guessing of guessing what the future impact is going to be.
We are at a point now where the conversations are deep enough and long enough that we know what to expect.
And one thing we know we can do at this company is lease space.
So again as a percentage to a total of what we do it's not going to be a major factor for DDR.
Paul? Jeff I want to add a few comments to Dan's but let me first answer your second question.
The spread between the leased rate and the lease commenced or rent paying rate is 260 basis points as of the end of the third quarter which is 10 basis points higher than we ended the second quarter.
Important to note that by the way it's good news because it comes with a lot of lease-up.
Obviously it helps drive that spread.
But we have a significant number in that pool of signed but not rent-commenced  opening in the fourth quarter of 2011.
So we will see a drop by year end but again that's because of the significant number of leased tenants that are opening in the fourth quarter any time after October 1.
Just a quick follow up to Dan it is about the communication and the sitting with the retailers the face-to-face discussions that we have regularly.
And as Dan put it not guessing but knowing exactly where they're coming from how we can work together I think -- Old Navy is a great example of a company that we've worked well with to execute on a few downsizes and bring in tenants like Carter's and Justice and Alta.
It's been a good story because we communicate regularly with them.
I would like to make one other point speaking of The Gap.
The recent news coming out of Gap Inc.
was certainly not news to us.
And the fact is just so there is no misunderstanding of our exposure of to 40 plus Gap Inc.
units we have there are only 4 gap units.
And in fact 3 of those have recently been renewed through their exercise of options.
So most of our exposure obviously is with Old Navy we're working closely our average size with Old Navy is 18 000 and we don't have a lot of risk there either.
Your next question as a follow-up from the line of Ki Bin Kim.
If you could help out with developments you have a lot of assets on hold.
Any thoughts on that and how much further do rents have to climb to justify the economics on those deals? We continue to work them which is one thing that should be understood meaning we continue to discuss the opportunities regularly with the retail community we deal with regularly.
It's hard to put a number on exactly where it needs to get because other things impact the return obviously such as the cost of the construction et cetera and what those prices 'may do'.
But the fact is that it's not there today and we absolutely see no reason to rush into it and we're not seeing it from our competitors quite frankly.
So it's not there.
There are some sites that someday will probably be developed but again that's just a matter of continuing to talk to the retailers.
The art of negotiation is one obviously where we're continuing to talk them up and remind them that there's a limited supply out there.
But again no rush to jump into it.
Your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Michael Bilerman as well.
Dan I think in your opening remarks you commented on some of the tremendous opportunities for external growth that you're seeing as a function of some of the dislocation in credit markets recently.
Just wondering if you can elaborate a little bit more in terms of what you're seeing and whether or not that's just one-off  prime asset acquisitions or whether there's some bigger opportunity you're seeing? We look at the opportunities in sort of 2 buckets.
Yes to the prime asset acquisitions.
In fact one of the prime assets that we acquired was a situation where there were 2 assets on the market.
We were not interested in one we were interested in the other.
We were unable to come to terms on a single asset purchase someone else put their 2 assets under contract which would not have been acceptable to us because one was clearly non-prime.
And because of the market dislocation the entity that put the 2 assets under contract were unable to close and so it came back to us.
And said are you still interested in the one we were interested in the one at a slightly different price.
And we ended up having an outstanding execution in the acquisition of a prime asset.
That never would have happened if we didn't hit situation where CMBS went south and overall market sentiment was poor.
So that's one area for sure.
The other area's actually in what we call a development partnerships group and our development partnerships are a group of individuals within all[ph] organizations that are meeting with a lot of private developers who continue to struggle -- even when things were good as you all know for the public companies the capital availability for the private companies was still strained.
And there are viable projects out there that have a very low risk profile in the sense that the land is already owned by someone else.
It's entitled and there's significant tenant interest but there are capital needs.
So that is an area where we can bring our platform to help with leasing.
We certainly bring our construction and our site-planning  expertise to help with the layout without having to take local entitlement risk and land banking risk which we will much prefer to go to a local sharpshooter than to us.
So that is something that is presenting itself as a result of still significant capital dislocation in the private development world.
And third we talk about all the time and it shouldn't be overlooked.
The redevelopment bucket will continue to grow.
Tenant demand is so far outstripping supply and tenant flexibility which is something that is tenant and flexibility are two words that have been mutually exclusive for many years.
So tenant flexibility is continuing to increase and that's creating opportunity at existing assets.
So as Paul said existing space is going to be worth more.
And we're seeing that come through on a regular basis.
Assets that have an operating history have the appropriate co-tenancy are in prime markets and have availability are very valuable today.
And because of the size and scope of our portfolio we're seeing redevelopment  opportunities continue to grow.
So we think between redevelopment some potential maybe new development and joint venture with local sharpshooters.
And prime acquisitions with less competition from the private sector we're seeing quite a bit of opportunity.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess for Paul or for Dan you mentioned obviously the very strong third quarter and then the pickup you expect into the fourth quarter if tenants open.
Can you give us just some sort of update on the potential for 2012 in terms of the NOI pickup in terms of leasing achieved thus far and what you expect to hit I guess the bottom line for next year? No J.
we're really -- we're not in a position to give that direction.
We've been pretty disciplined in how we give guidance over the last couple of years.
And one of the reasons why we've been much more accurate in our guidance delivery is we'll do it in a disciplined manner.
We will provide guidance in January.
The NOI number  will be very clearly spelled out as it has been in the past.
And we'll hold off until that point.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the redevelopment and development fronts is $750 million I think that's the number you threw out last quarter is that the number that you still expect over the next several years for the scope of the redevelopment program? And then if that flows into development is the stuff on Page 32 is that land that you have there is that where you might actually do a development or should we think of those as sort of defunct at this point? On the redevelopment piece Rich that is still our number.
We have a spend issue[ph] somewhere in the mid-50s and keep in mind that space will come online at all different times over the next year and a half.
I mean some of these redevelopment projects are expensive projects.
But we're going to continue to grow that pace of spend.
We've got a pretty good program for 2012 laid out and beyond.
We continue to look at additional opportunities.
But right now that 750 is still something we're sticking with.
And Rich in regard to the roster on Page 32 of the supplement some of those are projects that we continue to work where we -- and will get built over time if we feel that we can get an appropriate return on incremental capital to warrant the development of those properties or those locations.
Our goal obviously is to monetize all of that and we'll either monetize it through actually building it with appropriate returns or through the sale of some of these assets and some of the land here because there will be interest from others in markets where we had an interest in developing and we no longer do.
[indiscernible] will be our hybrid where you see development going on in some of that land.
But it's a capital inflow for DDR revenue and outflow if demand from the major anchors remain extremely strong and the opportunity for us to sell parcels to those guys may result in something being built on that land but not in a capital-intensive way for DDR.
One of the things that we just have to keep in mind when we look at that list of land is that the world has changed.
And the world has changed since we entitled the law of that land the world has changed since we bought it for sure.
And the world continues to change and that's why it's so important to stay in front of tenants because if you look at some of those properties and some of those markets the tenants that we were proceeding in those markets were either are no longer interested or already there or some of them don't even exist.
But the flip side is also true there are a whole new cadre of tenants that are interested because they have a desire for market expansion they have new prototypes and they need growth.
They need external growth.
So again as Paul said we're still far below on the development side where rents need to be in order to start any kind of development pipeline to get an appropriate return on a risk-adjusted basis.
But that being said some of these actually will get built and they will be monetized through the construction of retailers on this land and some of them will just have to [indiscernible].
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> David you talked about the non-prime dispositions I believe being less in 2012 than what we saw in 2011.
Can you just talk about how big of a pull is left that you would like to sell over time? Are you still going to have some sales over the next few years or does 2012 knock out the bulk of what's left? I think we believe it's an important consistent discipline that in a portfolio of this size there should always be something that we think appropriate to sell based on the expected total return of prospects over the next several years.
The NOI growth or more likely for these assets decline prospects over the next couple of years.
So I think we expect to stay active in the disposition business.
It's just going from a non-prime portfolio that exceeded $1.5 billion a few years ago just 2 years ago.
And today being in the $600 million $700 million range where it's barely 10% of our NOI.
We have reduced it significantly sometimes you got debt issues that make sales harder sometimes you've got partner issues that immediately encourage a sale.
And so we made more progress than anyone else in disposing in total close to $2.5 billion of non-prime assets when you look over the past 4 years.
And so I think we believe it to be a  continued important discipline just don't think that the multi-hundred million dollars pace for the past few years is achievable or justify going forward if there's just a lot less of that product on our books to sell.
And so we'll continue to be active portfolio managers eliminating assets where we think the IRRs are the worst over the next several years based on our views and based on feedback from tenants.
But just wouldn't expect to see the volume that you've seen over the past couple of years.
Your next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You did a good job talking about your 2012 maturities and how you're going to be able to handle them.
But one thing that I don't think you've been talking about much lately is whether or not you should add equity to the balance sheet.
What's your appetite at this point to add equity? Our view and the strategic long-term plan we've tried to articulate is that we do have balance sheet metrics that include improvement in our credit ratios improvement in our credit ratings that we want to and expect to execute upon over the next several years.
But at this point we do not at all believe that new common equity is required to achieve those metrics based on the monetization nonproducing assets based on the retention of free cash flow based on the continued growth in EBITDA that we've seen and expect to continue to see in a significant way going forward.
And so I think we have a very firm focus on continued improvement in our leverage profile both duration as well as total amount improvement in our credit ratios but we don't believe additional common equity needs to be a part of those plans to do that immediately.
Your next question comes from the line of Omotayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just along those same lines.
You just talk a bit about when you do talk to the credit rating agencies right now and kind of their requirements and their benchmarks to you I don't offer[ph] you guys to get any additional credit rating upgrade and kind of where you are relative to those benchmarks and how quickly you think you might be able to get to those benchmarks? Sure.
We actually met with the 3 agencies just a couple of weeks ago.
We characterize it as very good meetings across the board.
I think the tone from a macro standpoint is no one's looking to upgrade anything right now.
It's just given this level of uncertainty in the world given the volume of time that the agencies are spending on either securitized debt or probably even more importantly sovereign debt mid-cap corporates are not on the top of the list of any sort of meaningful ratings change certainly not on the upgrade side just given the uncertainty in the world.
That said I think they're very pleased with our progress.
We've been very open with them.
We've had a great dialogue with them over the past couple of years where we've outlined what we were going to do.
And then we've done it so I think it's not just the improvements in the metrics it's the credibility that we've earned back that's been important to them.
And so I can't see that we see any immediate signs of upgrades.
We have seen considerable upgrade activity either in outlook or rating over the past several quarters and we'd expect that to continue as we look out over the next year or so.
But hard to point to anything immediate.
We are the only REIT I believe that Fitch has a positive outlook on.
And so encouraged there for what could be the next catalyst on that side and focus on our continued very strong positive dialogue with them.
I think the metric that we and they have probably ended talking about and focusing on the most is fixed charge coverage.
We have improved that ratio through numerous transactions including the common equity for preferred redemption that we did earlier this year.
We've improved that ratio from just below 1.7x to 1.8x today.
And I think as we show more and more credibility over the next several quarters to a year and change of getting that back to 2x I think that would be one important specific metric that we're very focused on and I think they're very focused on.
And it doesn't have to necessarily already be there but I think as we both -- as we continue to show them the clear bright[ph] path for how we get to that point and they've get credibility in our ability to execute that becomes an important catalyst.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Odell with AIG Asset Management.
I was just hoping if you could provide us with 2012 in terms of the JV debt in 2012 what's the recourse to DDR? Almost extremely little of that debt would be recoursed to DDR.
The debt we talked about earlier in the joint ventures was in the DDR T/C Venture where that is not going to be recoursed to DDR.
As we look at the other 12 maturities it's extremely uncommon for us to provide recourse on any joint venture debt.
So the only place historically or currently that you're going to find it is on the development asset that were developed through joint ventures.
And so it would be a small amount of the debt particularly in the Coventry joint venture we're there were some development projects that would probably be the only 2012 maturity.
We would have[ph] recourse we can go through that the entire list and get yourself in a little more specific after the call.
But it's extremely uncommon for us to offer recourse in any situation.
So it would really just be on the new development assets and joint ventures there may be some DDR recourse.
Next question is a follow up from the line of Samit Parikh with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up for Dan and Paul.
Paul you talked about sort of a compelling opportunity for certain retailers to gain market share at this point.
Just want to ask you in terms of expansions for these specific retailers sort of what are you hearing on that? Are they scaling back at all for 2012? And if they're not what type of -- where are they targeting and maybe specifically to sort of the type of demographics that they're targeting? Okay.
We're seeing very few scale back.
There are a couple of exceptions none of them were significant to us.
Lowe's just recently announced that they were going to pretty much cut their new store opening plan and quite frankly we were working with nothing on them with them anyway.
Staples and Best Buy would be the other 2 examples that quickly come to mind that people slow down their growth and for obvious reasons.
That said we're seeing as aggressive an approach by the key retailers we deal with all the time as we have in the past couple of years even more so as they're competing for the same space.
Redevelopments expansions of centers.
That's what they need to focus on.
We've talked quite a bit about the lack of new supply and they get that.
So they are looking at how they fit into an existing site how we might reconfigure if you will.
But they are also looking at some different demographics.
It's not across the board.
Some are going to stick very closely to what they need in terms of density and household incomes.
But we are seeing quite a few that are -- have looked at a smaller prototype.
I think the pet stores are a great example.
The arts and crafts guys they're looking much smaller than they used to and that gives them the ability to hit smaller markets smaller population densities.
Income levels they're still looking pretty much the same thing they always have.
PETCO is a classic example.
They went down to a 12 000 prototype and now have something they call unleashed which is down to 6 000 feet which is more of a very convenience-oriented look at some more metro areas.
But it's a focus on how they redevelop existing properties and where they might be able to improve their market share through discovering new markets through smaller stores.
One of the things that we should all keep in mind is that a lot of these retailers are probably companies too and they have awful lot of spend on some of things that they sell.
And I think it's important that someone asked the question periodically when retailers announced that they're going to scale back there's a couple of reasons for that usually the reason for that is because they missed they're open to buy because availability is low.
So what a number of retailers are hearing is that the markets would like them to scale back and be a little more conservative perhaps on growth.
So they're giving you something that they never had.
So the question that we often ask retailers when they say we're going to reduce from 40 stores to say 30 stores the question is how many of those 10 stores were you really committed to and the answer is typically none.
Because there is often a disconnect between the expectations articulated to the market and the execution of the real estate department for individual retailers and we bumped into that many many times.
So expectations scaling back are usually not a function of business model.
It's usually the function of the availability of space to meet the strategic growth needs and instead of basically going back to the markets and saying oops we overpromised and are under delivering they're going back and saying well we're going to be conservative and deliver fewer stores.
But the stores were never there to begin with.
And I think that's sort of the question we always ask.
And in some cases there is a good business reason why retailers will pull back in their store count.
But in most cases it's because the space is simply not available and that is particularly the case in this environment where nothing new is being built.
Your next question is a follow up from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just thinking about your run rate as it relates to Q4 what are you guys seeing from pop-up tenant demand this holiday season? Many retailers experimented with it last year.
I was curious if you see a greater impact this coming quarter than maybe last year.
Jeff it's pretty much right in line with last year.
The  one that's been well publicized Toys "R" Us -- has cut back a little bit on their temporary space.
But we're seeing the same success rate we have in the past.
And even with less vacant space to deal with our number's right in line with where it was last year.
And one thing that brings to mind is that with the Borders which we talked about in a recent press release one of the things that I think sometimes gets lost is we achieved almost $300 000 in temporary income just to Halloween stores in several of those locations.
So the appetite is still there.
Again I think the one exception Toys "R" Us has come out recently and talked about just fewer locations for their temp space this holiday.
Your next follow-up question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael Bilerman.
Dan and Paul I'd appreciate your comments regarding the sort of downsizing retailers downsizing and not wanting to guess.
I guess there does run a pretty wide gamut I'm sure of all the experiences that you've had and discussions that you have and I was wondering if you can sort of share some examples of what's happened.
And when I think about it you've probably had stores that wanted to be resized and you've been able to release that the excess space of the retailers.
You've had retailers that wanted to resize but you haven't been able to release that space where you've had to it hasn't been part of the shopping center and you've basically had to take it away or leave it vacant.
I assume that there's some tenants that are just using -- they're not using all their floor space.
And they'll wait to the roll and they'll either try and negotiate lower rent or they'll resize at that point.
I assume that there's some vacant but renting tenants in the portfolio and I assume there's also cases where you don't own the box and what those retailers are doing if they have a desire to downsize and whether they're trying to release out there is space or carve out their space as well.
So I was just wondering if you can sort of delve down deeper into the specific examples of what you've been hearing things so that we can get a better grasp on what's happening.
As Dan mentioned earlier Michael the key is being with the tenants that we all can identify who might be more prone to downsizing.
Maybe examples I gave earlier were some of our better ones where with Carter's and Alta and Five Below and Justice.
We haven't executed on a downsize with any tenant where we don't have an answer for residual space.
And I'll also point out that we haven't lost a tenant because we haven't been able to downsize them.
That just hasn't been the case.
That said we're not kidding ourselves and we know which ones we need to work with and work with closely.
But they have obligations also.
I'm not quite sure I'm sure there's some examples where tenants have simply moth-balled  some space in the back room if you will to downsize their selling area but that hasn't been an issue with us getting space back or even retenanting it.
One of the things Dan mentioned an acquisition earlier and Best Buy is in that center.
And we quite frankly look at the oversized Best Buy as an opportunity.
Talked with Best Buy before we close on the transaction and we're working hard with them to do backfill [ph] the space which there's a lot of demand for.
And then it just gets to the negotiation on the economics and we're finding that the retailers who are serious about downsizing or [ph] maybe was one of them Best Buy is probably next in the category will invest in that downsizing.
They're not looking for this to be all on the developer's nickel.
And so it's pretty much a cooperative effort.
I'll give you one other example where with Best Buy if they're giving back 8 000 feet and we can really only utilize 4 000 because of the configuration where we're working hard to see that we can convert that space which will be moth-balled into out-parcel  opportunity.
And that's a great example of what we'll be doing in a lot of these locations.
So I don't want to overemphasize it Michael but we do see it as an opportunity with not a lot of risk.
I think the other thing that's important is while we do see it as an opportunity with not a lot of risk.
But unfortunately the opportunity on the positive side or the negative side is not going to move the needle all that much.
Because while we are very aggressively working with some folks about mothballing some  space and like Paul just mentioned during out-parcels they're resisting that.
They're resisting that because they feel that there may be a time in the future when they want to go back into the space.
So this is a very fluid situation.
Many of these tenants that we're talking about who have interest in downsizing have had a multiple formats over the last several years.
So we don't really know.
Are they  50 000-foot tenant are they a  35 000-square foot tenant are they had 20 000.
Old Navy was at 11 000 they went to 15 000 they went to 25 000 they came back down to 18 000.
I mean some of these guys have sort of been all over the place.
And one of the things retailers hate to do particularly merchants is give up flexibility.
They like the flexibility of the box.
Now there are clearly some retailers that should be smaller and we'll work with them in that regard.
But our caution on this and when we talk about materiality of it is not to jump to geological[ph] extremes either on the positive or the negative side of it.
Because retail is such a fluid business and it changes so quickly particularly in this market.
We are all seeing different prototypes different strategies on a regular basis and what we hear today may not be the case tomorrow.
So we have to stay in front of retailers we're spending a lot more time doing that than we've ever done in the history of this company to stay up to speed.
But we have to just keep sort of a balance on what this is going to be.
It's not going to be a material negative and it's certainly not going to be a material positive either.
Even though if you look at for example Best Buy every Best Buy store we have is in a prime asset.
Our prime assets run around 95% leased and I think we all know that best Buy is not the greatest rent payer.
If we can get that space back it will be a nice positive growth story.
I just think the success rate of getting some of that space back is going to be pretty rough.
So when we do our own sort of internal calculation if there's 50% of the Best Buy stores would like to give back space we'd probably only get 50% of that 50% and when we start to look at the numbers it doesn't really move the needle very much and it doesn't become a material factor in how we run the business.
We are much more focused on merchandising strategy and we're much more interested in  what some of these retailers who were talking about downsizing are going to do from a merchandising perspective to warrant future deals.
Because again it's our job to guess about nothing.
We need to know who's going to be the winner and who's going to be the loser in a particular category.
And if someone's evolving and is on the downside of that bell-shaped curve we need to see what they're going to do to pick it back up and that's what we're spending a lot of time doing.
Size of the space becomes a bit of background noise in the overall conversation.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Ross Nussbaum here with Christy.
A couple of questions I might have missed this.
What was the going-in yield on the third quarter acquisitions and on Polaris that's part 1.
And then part 2 is if I start thinking about your acquisitions from a price per square foot perspective it looks like the couple you did in the third quarter were a little over 150 a foot Polaris was 110 a foot.
But then I start thinking about your portfolio being frankly much better geographically than what those deals were.
So to me that would imply that the rest of your portfolio would garner a higher per square foot valuation.
Can you help me with all this? Sure.
All in everything that we've acquired this year has been in the low to mid 7% cap rate range on a going-in initial return basis.
And the third quarter deals represent a majority of that so it's certainly consistent with that.
We've looked at opportunities much lower than that but all in we've ended up around that 7 7.25 sort of overall range with a few outliers a little lower a few outliers a little higher.
But we think that's a good starting point relative to our cost of capital if there is an appropriate growth story to go along with them and we certainly believe that's the case here.
On the price per square foot comment would generally agree with you on a price per pound do think this portfolio would be valued more highly than what's implicit in the stock price today.
And you can see that from the transactional activity.
But we have committed as well the other high-quality shopping center companies where acquisitions and generally been higher in price per square foot to reflect what good assets are really trading for.
But you always have some exceptions where you just have a low in long-term historic rent that's going to drive that a little lower.
But in general I think your comment and your perception is the right one.
Your next question as a follow up from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to the Teachers loan just to make sure I'm not missing something.
I'm assuming the 555 that's mortgage meaning traditional mortgage not CMBS.
And then assuming that it is traditional mortgage it seems like that market has held up with the obviously the corporate market's had some gapping out recently and given that this does mature in March of '12 I would think that the life companies would have full annual allocations at that point whereas right now they may be running out of allocations.
So what would be -- what's the risk of the refinancing is it asset quality or is it just generic market risk? You're generally right and I would generally characterize it as just the overall market risk for a loan that is reasonable in size.
It's a cross collateralized pool so it's just a more complicated than a simple one-off mortgage.
You're exactly right it's not a CMBS deal.
This is financing we did with one insurance company that we have a very good relationship with.
And we're in the process of talking to them about what exactly the right refinancing restructure next steps could be either with them or with a new deal in the market in a different fashion.
So we completely agree with your comment that the mortgage business when dealing with balance sheet lenders insurance companies and commercial banks continues to be extremely strong.
We've seen a few that it may be commented that you referenced in terms of being out of or close to out of allocations for the year.
But honestly we haven't seen many people say that they're out of business and need to wait for 12 but do agree with your notion that the nature of that business is people getting new allocations on Jan 1 and being more active in that first couple of quarters for the year.
And we think that's an encouraging sign on top of the market that's already pretty strong and pretty attractively priced just a negotiation that we have to work through on these specific deals.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 DDR Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ann and I will be your coordinator for today's call.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like turn the presentation over to Mr.
Samir Khanal Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from President and CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and Chief Financial Officer David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand those statements are subject to risk and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Samir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us and for your interest in our company.
The fourth quarter of 2011 was another excellent quarter for DDR but that really should come as no surprise at this point.
2011 and 2010 overall were excellent years for our company as we continue to execute on our articulated strategy designed to enhance all aspects of our business model.
We continue to be very consistent performer in very inconsistent times.
And we look ahead to 2012 that consistent performance will continue.
Fourth quarter 2011 marks 7 consecutive quarters of same-store NOI growth 7 consecutive quarters of positive leasing spreads 10 consecutive quarters of leased rate gains 12 consecutive quarters of balance sheet improvement and 16 consecutive quarters of non-prime asset sales.
In addition the trend for small shop space over the past 2 years has been positive with a net gain of 1% in 2010 but growing to 29% in 2011 due to move-ins outpacing move-outs.
And with regard to tenant accounts receivable and bad debt expense we have seen continued meaningful reductions over the past 3 years.
We are now in the enviable position of having historically low debt maturities and historically high liquidity with a staggered and balanced maturity profile.
We continue to experience historically high leasing velocity with a historically limited tenant watch list.
The credit quality of cash flow continues to improve across our portfolio specifically and our sector generally as described in detail on Page 35 of our updated investor presentation that you can find on our website.
From a balance sheet perspective we have obvious rating agency momentum and extended debt maturity profile and a significant debt to EBITDA decline to 7.26x on a consolidated basis and 7.74x on a pro rata basis.
The bottom line when looking at the DDR story today is that we are still a bit of a contradiction.
While our stock continues to trade as a high beta name our operational performance and balance sheet are increasingly devoid of risk and we are confident that our operations will continue to improve and our balance sheet will continue to de-risk moving forward.
All the above being said we are under no illusions regarding the environment in which we operate.
We all currently live in an economy impacted by quantitative easing which artificially and temporarily provides the opportunity for businesses to correct deals of the past improve the present and prepare for the future.
As we continue our quest to further de-risk our balance sheet we do so in acknowledgment of the fact that quantitative easing is not a policy that will last forever and financial opportunities will undoubtedly be more expensive in the future.
As a result we have pursued opportunistic refinancings and in many cases have accelerated our plans in order to take advantage of current pricing rather than letting the market take advantage of us.
Our goal is to keep it real acknowledge the unique capital opportunity that currently exists and prepare ourselves for the future with balance and capacity.
We have raised approximately $8 billion over the past 3 years completely recapitalized our company and have taken advantage of the opportunity to dramatically improve our balance sheet enhance our portfolio and grow our business.
The current recovery is fragile at best and absent a subsidized economy growth is tepid.
We understand that long-term investors are not fooled by short-term financial engineering artificially inflated FFO growth or chronic spread investing at the expense of NAV.
We also recognize that savvy investors know the difference between real growth and CapEx-induced growth.
We absolutely believe that those who fail to seize the moment to enhance their portfolio quality and financial standing will present future opportunities for those of us currently pursuing a contrary strategy.
Financial stability and a realistic view of today will lead to additional opportunity tomorrow.
I'll now turn the call over to Paul to discuss portfolio operations.
Thank you Dan.
The strong level of activity in 2011 which Dan referenced resulted in a year of significant improvement across our portfolio.
In the fourth quarter we executed 239 new leases for 1.1 million square feet and 304 renewals for 1.8 million square feet.
Spreads on new leases and owned assets were 9.6% and renewals were 4.5% resulting in an overall blended spread of 5.8%.
For the full year we executed 876 new leases for 4 million square feet and 1 232 renewals for 7.7 million square feet.
Spreads on new leases on owned assets were 11.2% and renewals were 5% resulting in an overall blended spread of 6.1%.
As a result of this activity our domestic leased rate as of December 31 was 93.3% a 20 basis point increase sequentially and a 100 basis point increase over year end 2010.
Including Brazil our leased rate at year end was 93.6%.
As Dan mentioned we continue to show consistently strong performance and improvement in our leased rate leasing spread and same-store NOI growth.
These are all continuing trends and clearly reflect the strong demand we are seeing from retailers who continue to validate the quality of our portfolio and overall asset class through their strategic selection process.
Our same-store NOI expectation for 2012 is for 2% to 3% growth.
As mentioned in our guidance we expect to recognize the majority of this growth in the back half of 2012 due to the timing of 2011 move-outs and 2012 rent commencements most of which are already committed through prior leasing.
We expect spreads and deal velocity to remain strong throughout 2012 and the year-end leased rate to improve another 100 basis points to over 94.5% prior to the impact of the proposed EDT transaction.
The forecasted improvement in the leased rate will be achieved through a combination of increases in our big box and small shop leased rates with the majority of the increase coming from the big box lease-up.
While there is clearly room for growth with our small shop space keep in mind that nearly 75% of our total portfolio GLA is made up of spaces larger than 10 000 square feet.
Approximately 60% of the expected 100 basis point improvement in leased rate will be the result of leasing spaces over 10 000 square feet and 40% will be a result of leasing spaces under 10 000 square feet.
As a result our small shop leased rate is projected to improve in 2012 by approximately 150 basis points to 86% and the leased rate for over 10 000 square feet is expected to improve by approximately 70 basis points to 97.5% by year end.
While the demand story in leasing has been primarily driven by the big box category I would like to take a few minutes to update you on our progress with small shop space both in terms of increased occupancy as well as reduced exposure.
As Dan mentioned and you can see in further detail on Page 36 of the investor presentation on our website small shop move-ins over move-outs increased in 2010 and even more significantly so in 2011.
The opportunity for additional improvement is clear and the potential for upside is compelling.
In 2011 for the portion of our portfolio that consists of space less than 10 000 square feet we increased our leased rate by 60 basis points to 84.5%.
We also reduced our exposure to this size range by 30 basis points to 26.2% of our total portfolio GLA through a combination of small shop consolidation acquisitions of prime power centers non-prime asset sales and creative new leasing initiatives.
Regarding small shop consolidation in 2010 and 2011 we consolidated 290 small shop units the majority of which were previously vacant into 119 larger units and leased them to some of the fastest-growing retailers such as Five Below Shoe Carnival PetSmart Ulta Anna's Linens Pet Supplies Plus Rue21 Dots Carter's and more.
These deals represent $11 million of new income to DDR $8 million pro rata.
These expanding retailers require the creative reuse and consolidation of space to meet their growth needs as they strongly desire prime centers which are currently trending at 95% leased in our portfolio.
For further detail on this initiative and examples of recent space consolidation please refer to Page 50 of the investor presentation on our website.
As you know we are also aggressively selling assets that have greater exposure to small shop space and acquiring prime power centers with a focus on credit quality national anchor and junior anchor tenants.
A perfect example of this is our 2011 power center acquisitions.
They represent over 1.4 million square feet or over 98% leased with 75% of their GLA consisting of units greater than 10 000 square feet and are anchored by national credit tenants such as Whole Foods Kohl's Wal-Mart Target PetSmart Ulta Harris Teeter Bed Bath &amp; Beyond T.J.
Maxx Home Depot and Lowe's.
We have also launched 2 new leasing programs focused exclusively on small shop leasing set up shop and FranchiseConnect.
Set up shop is currently being piloted in the Atlanta market given our large concentration of assets and our strong local presence.
Since launching this program just 2 weeks ago we have generated over 200 leads have executed several deals and are looking forward to rolling this initiative out to additional markets in the near future.
Our FranchiseConnect portal was developed in partnership with our vast range of franchise retailers such as Dunkin' Donuts Great Clips GNC Subway Panera Menchie's The UPS Store and many more.
It provides entrepreneurs with web-based tools to research local and site-specific franchise opportunities across our portfolio.
We're extremely excited about these initiatives as they not only assist in the lease-up of small shop space and improve our recovery rates but also create new business opportunities for entrepreneurs.
Overall we are extremely pleased with the progress we have made in addressing small shop vacancy and our entire portfolio and are confident we will make significant further progress in 2012.
And I look forward to keeping you posted in that regard.
And I'll now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $72.1 million or $0.26 per share for the fourth quarter which was in line with our expectations.
Including nonoperating items FFO for the quarter was $47.4 million or $0.17 per share.
Nonoperating items were primarily noncash impairment charges related to the land held for development in Canada and debt extinguishment charges related to Town Center Plaza.
Gains of $56 million or $0.21 per share related to the sale of Town Center Plaza and other assets were recognized during the quarter and are excluded from both FFO measures.
January was an extremely active month for us as we raised over $600 million of capital announced a recapitalization in EDT through a creatively structured transaction and addressed the majority of our 2012 consolidated debt maturities.
Our new joint venture with Blackstone will acquire the majority of the EDT retail portfolio establishing a strategic relationship with one of the most successful real estate investors in the world.
We issued nearly $250 million of common equity on a forward basis to fund the $214 million total investment in the venture which will lower our overall leverage without FFO dilution.
The majority of our investment in the venture is $150 million preferred equity interest with a fixed return of 10% which represents a disciplined investment with an attractive risk-adjusted return.
We are also pleased to have substantially addressed our 2012 consolidated debt maturities.
We closed $353 million of new long-term financings comprised of a $250 million unsecured term loan and a $103 million mortgage loan.
The $250 million unsecured term loan consists of $200 million 7-year tranche with interest fixed at 3.6% through a swap contract and a $50 million 5-year tranche with interest at LIBOR plus 170 basis points.
The attractive pricing and duration further advanced our goals of reducing our risk profile and lowering our long-term cost of capital.
Proceeds from the term loan will be used to retire $180 million of convertible notes maturing in March and outstanding balances under our revolving credit facilities.
Our remaining 2012 consolidated unsecured debt maturities consist of $223 million of 5.4% unsecured notes that mature in October and the company had no other unsecured maturities in the next 3 years.
In addition we now have nearly full capacity on our $800 million revolving credit facilities.
Proceeds from the mortgage loan will be used to prefund our consolidated 2012 secured debt maturities allowing us to unencumber assets throughout the year.
It is important to note that we sit today with only $223 million of unsecured debt maturities over the next 3 years a significant improvement from $2.3 billion of maturities at the end of 2008 $1.9 billion of maturities at the end of 2009 and $600 million at the end of 2010.
At year end 2011 our weighted average debt maturity was 4.3 years a significant improvement from 2.9 years at the end of 2009 and continued progress from the 3.9 years at the end of last year.
Our annual maturities are very manageable and we expect our cost of capital to continue to improve as well.
Fitch upgraded our credit rating in January and all the rating agencies are very aware of the progress that we have made and we will continue to communicate with them on a regular basis on our progress as we work to regain our consensus investment-grade ratings.
Our recent transactions have further strengthened our maturity profile and we remain absolutely committed to lowering our leverage further.
In 2011 we generated $461 million of gross proceeds from asset sales of which our share was $371 million and an additional $71 million of assets are currently under contract for sale.
Dispositions in 2011 include $57 million in proceeds from non-income producing asset sales and we are currently under contract on an additional $21 million.
We meaningfully exceeded our goal for full year and are proud to be the leader among retail REITs in recycling capital.
Proceeds from asset sales represent a valuable source of capital as we funded $230 million of prime acquisitions and lowered leverage with this equity and we expect more to come.
We are very confident these recycling efforts will result in a portfolio with far better than average cash flow stability and long-term growth prospects which we believe will create significant value for our shareholders.
We are being very diligent in underwriting potential acquisitions and despite a competitive market we are pleased to be finding select off-market opportunities like our new joint venture with Blackstone and hope to be able to disclose more of what we are working on in the coming months.
In January we issued 2012 FFO guidance of $0.98 to $1.04 per share.
This assumes recently completed and prospective financing activity and another year of visible same-store NOI growth.
It also includes $100 million of non-prime operating asset sales with net proceeds reinvested into acquisitions of prime shopping centers.
We continue to feel comfortable with these metrics and hope once again to exceed this volume of capital recycling.
While EBITDA and NAV per share growth continue to be our focus we are pleased to guide to our first year of FFO per share growth in 5 years and we expect this trend to continue.
We also declared a first quarter 2012 common stock dividend of $0.12 per share representing a 50% increase from the fourth quarter of 2011 dividend and a 200% increase from the first quarter of 2011.
The dividend increase is a result of the strength of our operating platform the high credit quality of our cash flows our proven access to capital and minimal near-term debt maturities.
The company's risk profile has been significantly reduced allowing us to prudently return more cash to our shareholders on a regular basis and we hope to generate additional growth as we continue to make progress on operational capital recycling and deleveraging initiatives.
While we are proud of all that we have accomplished in 2011 and so far this year we have more work to do.
We are working hard and expect to be able to announce continued progress soon on numerous operating and financing initiatives on both our wholly-owned and JV portfolio.
At this point I'll stop and turn the call back to Dan for closing remarks.
Thank you David.
Before turning the call over to questions I'd like to reiterate my opening remarks which highlighted the consistent execution of our operating platform and balance sheet improvement initiatives.
As I've said in the past the market may be volatile but we are not.
While it is easy to become distracted by our surroundings and the market developments that are simply outside our control we remain disciplined and committed to achieving our long-term aspirations reducing risk and creating value for our shareholders.
Operator at this time we -- I'd be happy to open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Dan just in light of your comments your initial comments about using monetary policy and how it's creating opportunities for you to sell assets and rightsize your balance sheet how do you think given that it's also clearly lowering cap rates on the prime assets that you're looking to acquire -- I mean how do you think about pricing for prime assets right now and your appetite for that given it seems like in other areas you're trying to capitalize on financial conditions in the sense that it might be temporary.
I think it's a great question Paul.
I think one of the things that you'll notice when you look at what we acquired -- and it's one of the reasons why we've been as selective as we have been is that it's hard to see how we or anyone else will make money just buying core stable assets or prime stable assets that have flat growth prospects in today's market at today's pricing.
That's why we are very very focused on what we consider to be a core-plus strategy which is going to give us upside growth opportunity outside of what might be readily apparent to the current owner of that asset.
So if we take -- if we feel that we can grow that asset at a respectable rate by putting it into our platform then it becomes attractive to us.
If it's a maxed-out asset that's just fully priced fully auctioned it is highly unlikely we'll be able to take advantage of that in this market.
So we spend an awful lot of time due-diligencing these assets with Paul and his team and then out into the retail community and that is part of what excites us about our redevelopment platform because some of the assets quite frankly that we have acquired while they may be 97% 98% leased they do have redevelopment they do have expansion opportunity.
They do have remerchandising opportunity that will upsize the growth opportunity and that's something we're very focused on.
But I think you're right.
I think if the market comes out today with a fully baked prime asset with no "plus" part of the core story we will not probably be a player.
Yes in fact you're going to see us as a seller in select circumstances where we think we can recognize 6% or so cap rates on the centers that are held in joint ventures that may be prime but where we think the future growth prospects just aren't there to justify it or the credit is a risk and we'll redeploy that capital into 7s or an asset that we think have a better cash flow growth profile over the next several years.
So even in a market that's pretty aggressively priced overall we think the informational advantages that Dan referred to can put us in a position where we can still transact on both sides and take advantage of opportunities.
And our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I had a question about the same-store NOI guidance.
You just finished coming off a 3.5% year and it looks like the midpoint of your guidance is 2.5% but in both cases you're having 100 base pickup in occupancy rates.
What is it that's making you a little more cautious on that same store NOI number? Craig let me start a little bit with the timing of certain things here.
There were certain of the bankruptcies we experienced last year that are going to hit us.
It will hit us a little bit in the fourth quarter it will hit us early in 2012.
The Borders and Blockbuster -- obviously revenue we were receiving at this point last year.
So it really is just a matter of timing.
I mean it's certainly no trend.
We expect a significant pick-up as we move through 2012 but it's just the timing of certain of the negatives which we all experienced in 2011.
Part of it's the simple math also of having a higher base that we're working off of and then specifically as we look at the specific portions of the portfolio.
While Brazil continues to be a strong driver with attractive fundamentals you're comping a year that was nearly 20% same-store NOI growth in that market and we just don't believe that's sustainable.
It doesn't mean we're not going to try to hit that in every way but we're underwriting and budgeting to a much more normal number for that market.
And the numbers down there are so significant that that does make a difference.
And our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I'm on with Jordan Sadler as well.
With regard to leverage today the consolidated debt to EBITDA ended the quarter well below 7.5x and I know that there's some seasonality in that number so it could bump up again next quarter.
But David you mentioned that you're looking to reduce leverage further.
What are you targeting for leverage at the end of 2012 and what's sort of your longer-term target at this point? Yes I think more important on the longer-term target we talked about something in the 6 to 7x range.
And I don't think we'd be shy given the market opportunity to be at the low end or even below that range.
I think when we think about it from the perspective of how do we minimize our long term cost of capital we recognize that continuing to send a clear message that risk has been lowered and will be lowered further is important.
that shows up in a couple of ways.
One is the dramatic progress we've made in the maturity profile where we spread that in a dramatic way to get to a much greater balance today.
And the other side of it is just the overall amount of leverage.
And so I think you will continue to see leverage as defined by debt to EBITDA decrease over the next year but even more so over the next several years.
And our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
As you guys continue to gain occupancy especially towards 2013 and the easier gains in same-store NOI are made how do you think about longer-term same-store NOI growth in your portfolio without the full benefit of occupancy gains? Could you comment on that a little bit? Fundamentally I mean when we think about these assets on a long-term basis whether it's us looking at the history of what we've experienced over 20 years as a public company or when we just think about the cash flow profile over the next several years for these assets we think prime power centers in normal sort of market should be able to grow in the 2% range on an annual basis.
You're going to have some years higher some years lower but that's sort of what the rental rates driven and active leasing should be able to do it for us without the benefits of occupancy gains.
I think we hope to add to that number even though it might not be a perfect same-store definition but add to that overall benefit to the corporate NOI growth through redevelopment activity where we're being proactive in changing space around changing tenants around to make sure we've got the right format going forward and the right tenants going forward that are going to benefit most from the trends we're seeing.
And secondly and you're seeing this in the EDT transaction there are going to be situations where we have to acknowledge today our inventory of vacancy is dramatically lower than it was.
And while that's a good piece of news for pricing power allowing us to push rental economics -- both rents higher and CapEx lower it also makes us think more about increasing that inventory of vacancy.
And so that's one thing that you'll see happen with the EDT transaction and potentially other transactions where we're in a much stronger position today to add some vacancy through acquisitions vacancy that we don't believe we're paying for and then create value and create additional NOI growth although perhaps not perfectly same-store over the coming quarters to years after that.
I think it's important also to keep in mind that what gives us some confidence that our same-store NOI growth will be superior to what it had been historically for our company is that we have sold about $2.6 billion $2.7 billion of assets over the last few years and I'm very confident in stating that those assets were a drag.
They were a significant drag on this company and they were a significant drag on our growth rate and our same-store NOI.
So we've been very proactive through the capital recycling effort and putting our capital into assets that have a much better growth profile than the ones that we traded out of.
And I think as we look forward -- and we have good visibility on this particular issue that we are excited about the same-store NOI prospects going forward particularly compared to where we had reported prior to 2007 even forgetting the recession era which is going to be somewhat distorted.
But even in normal operating conditions we had a number of assets that were an NOI drag on this company that are no longer part of our portfolio.
Yes and let me just add one last thing because it is an important question going forward.
We're in a unique environment.
We're in a great environment to improve the pricing and the credit quality and one  great example I can use is replacing some 4-year [ph] entertainment stores with Dick's Sporting Goods.
It won't show up in any kind of occupancy change.
It's going to be neutral occupancy but it'll be a significantly improved spread and a dramatic improvement to the quality of the tenant mix and the credit quality of the centers.
So that's the kind of thing we're in a unique spot in and we see that for the next couple of years.
And our next question is from Quentin Velleley with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I'm here with Michael Bilerman.
Just in terms of the Set Up Shop incubator initiative I'm just wondering if you could expand a little bit on that.
And in particular is the initiative going to be part of core occupancy and leasing statistics or is it sort of going to be separated out and part of your ancillary income program? And I'm also curious just how much sort of capital that you're looking at investing and what kind of incremental returns you're hopeful of getting.
Okay.
Quentin it's a great question and something that we've been extremely pleased.
As I mentioned in the script we're only a few weeks into this and the reaction has been overwhelming.
One thing I wanted to add that I didn't mention in the prepared remarks is that there are certain agencies we're partnered up with loosely.
SCORE is one.
That's a resource organization for the SBA and this an organization of retired business professionals who help young entrepreneurs start business grow a business expand their business.
And they're providing lots of leads for us and it's very exciting.
It's got over 13 000 members nationally.
So this is really taking off in a way I didn't even expect and we'll roll it out quickly.
In terms of investment next to nothing.
There may be an exception but right now the plan is these are short-term deals get people going with their business.
And none of the negotiations we have going right now where the deals we've signed involve any investment on the part of DDR.
As we've talked about previously the initial few months we're reducing our exposure increasing our recoveries with CAM and taxes and insurance and that's all positive.
Our plan is to include these in the lease rate.
We'll watch them closely but again no investment immediate recovery improvement and the hope is that we're finding some entrepreneurs that are going to be long-term stable tenants and grow the business and we're bringing bodies to the centers.
So it's all been extremely positive.
As we currently compute our occupancy Quentin anything under a year is not included.
If it's a year or over it is included in our occupancy numbers.
So if there were -- and we anticipate that these particular transactions will be over a year.
If there are situations where it is under a year it will not be included.
But in most cases it will be included because we anticipate the term to be over 12 months.
Yes and we are going with 2.5 years Quentin as we've discussed.
And again the game plan is to turn these into longer-term leases.
And our next question is from Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neil.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> As the Internet companies over the holidays noted the increased cost in their shipping expense it seems to have weighed on profits.
Dan do you see that increase in shipping expense could drive more online retailers to open up physical stores? Or you really think that the driver is going to be more what happens with sales tax? Well I think it's all part of this sort of a holistic story.
It's interesting the -- we have seen -- we've talked about this in the past and now we're starting to see signs of Amazon inquiring and looking for a bricks-and-mortar location.
I think the reason why it makes sense to do that is roughly 5% of retail sales in the United States currently occurs over the Internet and 95% happens in bricks-and-mortar.
And if you're a retailer at some point I think you have to make a decision as to what is my strategy to try to access the 95% of the retail sales that are occurring in this country as opposed to just hanging out with the 5% that may someday grow to 10% but still means you're missing the 90% that's occurring.
So I do think that there is -- if you're going to talk about growth and margin there's a huge issue obviously.
I mean Amazon does a lot of sales but they can't make up for bad margin with more sales.
So I think the model is under pressure.
And I think the model when it becomes under pressure requires retailers to look at alternative distribution of goods because that's what they do.
And when 95% of the distribution of goods in this country occur in bricks-and-mortar and if you're a retailer you should be in bricks-and-mortar.
And no different than if you are in the 95% camp and 5% and maybe someday 10% will be happening over the Internet you should be in that business too which is exactly what we're seeing our retailers do in a dramatic way.
So I think you need a real comprehensive strategy on both ends of the spectrum.
But I do think we're going to see much much more pressure on the Internet retailers to: number one actually show profit.
Show profit that is reasonable based on the volume because otherwise the model simply becomes somewhat questionable if they are unable to produce the same type of margin that bricks-and-mortar retailers produce with really a lower expense structure in many cases.
So I think the sales tax is part of it.
I think that'll help.
I don't think that's going to be the driver one way or the other.
I think it's where the consumer buys their goods ultimately is the driver to what your retail strategy is.
And I think you're going to see it happen on both ends of the spectrum but I do think Internet retailers are going to have to figure out how to access the 90% to 95% of the retail sales that are occurring in the United States today and that are not occurring on the Internet.
And our next question is from Jay Habermann with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question Dan on strategy.
As your portfolio becomes more prime and obviously less NOI from the non-prime I'm just curious how you're thinking about CapEx for some of the non-prime centers.
Are you seeking to increase occupancy to sort of accelerate the sales? Are you looking to just sell the asset as is? And I guess also you had mentioned maybe sort of selling some of the JV assets.
I'm just wondering if we might see sort of any unwinding of any partnerships this year.
Well Jay the answer to the first question is a little bit of both.
I can tell you that there are many situations where it is not worth the dollars -- the enhanced dollars the capitalized value of the enhanced dollars of waiting for lease-up on assets that aren't going to move the needle one way or the other.
So we're being very very prudent with our CapEx.
Where we have obvious lease-up potential and we get a decent return on that lease-up potential we are pursuing that.
But the capitalized value on just pure lease-up on some of these assets that we're selling -- but again they're very very small.
The rents are very very low.
And the cap rate is typically pretty high.
So you're really not talking about any cost-benefit analysis by waiting particularly if we have alternative investments where we can redeploy that capital in a more prudent manner.
In regard to our joint ventures we're constantly working with our joint venture partners to do what is prudent not just for their shareholders but for our shareholders.
And if the market presents opportunities for us to unwind certain ventures we will do that.
We have done quite a bit of that in the last year or so and I think that will continue as we want to simplify our story.
And we want to partner with large institutions like Blackstone -- which helps simplify the story not complicate the story versus multiple joint ventures with smaller partners with sometimes an uncertain future on the back end.
And our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess this question's for David.
When do you think we're going to see your operating and reported FFO per share converge I guess and the impairments and charges start to dissipate? And then specific to this quarter I was just curious what was behind the $200 million impairment in your unconsolidated JVs and why your share seemed so small.
We've seen considerable convergence over the past couple of years between our operating FFO and FFO.
Most of that is because we've cleaned up a number of aspects of the business.
We've acknowledged some of the write-downs related to 2006 and '07 investment activity.
And we think we're in a much stronger position today.
We provide operating FFO because we do think it's the appropriate run rate number but that also leads to exactly your question: when will it be the run rate? And we think we're very close to that today.
The charges the noncash items that impact that spread are getting smaller and we would expect that to continue.
That said we are going to run the business to get the best long-term outcome for our shareholders and in some cases that does mean recognizing a loss now rather than just sitting on something and carrying it at book value.
So I think there's the potential to continue to see some sort of noise there but do think directionally you've seen it get a lot smaller and we would expect that to continue.
Specifically on the joint venture financials the write-down related to one of the joint ventures associated with the Inland transaction where DDR -- to your question specifically: why was our write-down so much smaller? DDR had written down in the past our portion of the venture.
However the venture itself had not taken that charge so that's why you saw a large charge at the joint-venture level and an extremely small one at the DDR level.
And our next question comes from Tom Truxillo with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions on balance sheet here.
Obviously you've done a great job in increasing your liquidity and extending your debt maturity.
But by doing that you've also kind of limited your ability to further reduce debt at least easily reduce debt.
Does that mean it's fair to say that you think EBITDA growth is going to be mainly responsible for getting you to that leverage goal of 6 to 7x? And then as a follow-on and kind of just as importantly because it seems to be the most -- the focus of agencies right now you've done a good job of reducing the cost of your debt as well.
If your debt reduction opportunities are limited are there other opportunities to kind of decrease your cost of debt so that you improve that coverage? Or again is that coverage improvement going to primarily come from EBITDA growth? I do think EBITDA growth will be the primary driver on a go-forward basis.
On a look-back basis the majority of the leverage improvement related to lower debt with EBITDA that was on a same-store basis growing but on an overall basis because of asset sales was still flat to declining.
On a go-forward basis I think EBITDA growth will be dramatically more important to that metric but it's not at all to say that we won't continue to reduce debt.
And I think we do have continuing opportunities to reduce debt.
We're proud to have a much longer duration profile on our debt.
But we still have $200 million of maturities this year and $300 million to $400 million -- $300 million to $500 million for the next several years so there's still opportunities to reduce debt.
It's not as if everything is fixed for 10 years where there's no good way to get at it.
And so I still think there's  some opportunities there but I would absolutely say that [ph] growth is more important driver of debt to EBITDA.
The [ph] improvements on a look-forward basis and we think that hopefully we're making them more and more visible through continued same-store NOI growth as well as primarily redevelopment and a joint venture related to [indiscernible] basis development EBITDA that is improving consistently.
The second question regarding our cost of debts.
We've done a lot over the past couple of years in terms of duration extension where we've had to say we're taking much more expensive debt replacing cheaper debt but we're getting the duration that we think is crucial to our long-term cost of capital.
Today we think we're in a situation where we can generally replace maturing debt with cheaper debt as we look out over the next year and especially as we look out a few years and you think about the 9 5/8% notes that mature in '16 and other higher coupon debt in the out years.
I think there is select opportunities where we could think about refinancing our preferred equity at a lower rate.
So while we don't have massive amounts of debt maturing over the next couple of years which we obviously view as a positive generally we do still think there are enough ways where we can take advantage of the current low cost of capital to refinance debt lower and improve our fixed-charge coverage ratio.
And you've seen that exactly with some of the financings during the quarter where we're taking out low- to mid 3% debt and replacing debt generally at a couple-of-hundred-basis-point higher level.
And our next question is from Carol Kemple with Hilliard Lyons.
Research Division</strong> What was your spread between leased and occupancy in the quarter? In our account it was 240 basis points.
Research Division</strong> And where do you see that by the end of 2012? Well let me -- it should be narrower but one of the pleasant surprises in the quarter was the fact it didn't narrow anywhere near as much as I thought.
And that's a real credit to the amount of deals the deal velocity we saw in the fourth quarter because there were certainly a significant number of move-ins.
And the deal velocity exceeded what I had thought going into the quarter and that's obviously good news.
And we see that trend continuing.
So in the past I typically answer that question where we should see this narrow and the fact is we've seen it consistently in that 200 to 250 260 basis point spread.
And that's okay.
The fact that we've got a lot of signed leases that haven't commenced rent yet and will in later 2012 and early 2013 is a very good thing.
We consistently wait for this to narrow not yet to historic levels which as you know were sub-100.
But in that 150 to 175 ranges will be consistently projected because we do not see leasing velocity -- or we hadn't thought that leasing velocity would keep up at the pace that it obviously has.
And you start doing -- over the last 3 years we've done roughly 11 million feet of leasing a year.
Those are very big numbers for us.
And we keep waiting for big quarters to end up with a more quiet quarter because again sometimes the tenant -- it takes a while to refill the queue.
But right now the way the market has been and the way the retailers are receiving our portfolio we're seeing consistent velocity that is keeping the gap wider than we would have thought.
And like Paul said that's the good news.
That's the good news because occupancy continues to go up the leased rate continues to go up and the velocity continues to stay fairly constant.
And it'll be interesting to see how long that will continue but it's something that we're very pleased with obviously.
And our next question is from Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Paul you talked about consolidating a couple of hundred small shop spaces into bigger boxes earlier.
Curious about the TI [ph] cost associated with that or the overall CapEx cost.
And also interested in knowing a little more about what is the ultimate net effective rent on those boxes versus what you were able to achieve on the small shop space.
Yes Cedric the capital investment is very consistent with what we've seen across any of our re-leasing averages somewhere in the mid-teens.
And the good news on the consolidations and I think we've talked about this on prior calls is that the -- we're seeing investment on the part of the retailers.
That was not their position 3 or 3.5 years ago but that's been very consistent with some of the guys who want to downsize whether it's one of the office guys or a Best Buy or a Jo-Ann's or an Old Navy specifically.
They're putting money into the deal so we're not seeing any extraordinary level of investment and the net effective rents are right in there with our averages.
They're going to be in that $13 $14 a foot range.
So there's no significant difference just because of the consolidation.
Keep in mind some of the consolidated spaces were chronically vacant spaces.
We used a couple examples and if you look into the investor presentation as I mentioned I mean this was stuff that hadn't earned us anything for several years.
And so we're in there with the mid-teens or somewhere in that vicinity on rent with a typical investment and it's all of a sudden producing in a big way when it hadn't produced in years for us.
And our next question comes with a follow-up from Samit Parikh with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask you about Brazil and just the future plans there really and I guess 3 projects delivering in the next 2 years.
Is there any insight you can give us sort of on future investment plans how much more greenfield development you plan to do in the near term? And pretty much that's about it.
That's a great question.
It's a question we ask ourselves all the time.
Right now we have 3 greenfield projects as you mentioned under construction.
We acquired another piece of property for a future project in Brazil and it's a market that we have to monitor as we go.
Brazil has been very exciting.
It's been very positive for us in a lot of ways but it's an emerging market and where there's emerging market there's volatility.
And things can change very quickly in those markets and we're aware of that.
That's why we have structured our transaction there by doing the IPO with maximum flexibility for us.
We have no plans to exit Brazil at this point in time and in fact we'd still see great opportunity and great value creation in Brazil.
We have a team of about 145 people in Brazil.
We have an outstanding development and leasing team that are out looking for opportunities on a regular basis.
We're going back and looking at how we can maximize value at our existing assets as well do an aggressive redevelopment program.
We continue to see multiple tenants interested in coming to Brazil that aren't there now.
And we continue to see great growth of the middle class and disposable income increasing at sort of historic levels.
So we'll continue to monitor that situation.
It's part of our -- it's absolutely part of our platform.
Right now it's about 8% of our NOI.
When the centers open the 3 centers that you mentioned it will be in that 12% to 13% of our NOI and we'll continue to monitor it going from there.
But right now we've always been very prudent in Brazil in looking at the development opportunities and we will continue to do that.
But as we look forward in Brazil it's hard to talk really about a market like Brazil on a 5-year plan because 5 years is an awful long time in a market like that.
And as David mentioned earlier we're seeing year-to-year changes pretty dramatic.
Even though the numbers are still very compelling they go up and down pretty dramatically from a same-store NOI perspective in particular.
So we'll continue monitor that and make sure that we're capitalizing on the opportunities and maximizing the value.
Another way we address it is just our financing activity down there where because of the IPO almost exactly 12 months ago we do sit on a considerable amount of cash that will represent the equity that funds most of that activity.
And so I think we're careful and prudent not to combine financial risk along with the operating development and emerging market risk that Dan referred to.
So I think that's where we see an important balance where we can take advantage of those opportunities but do so in a very low leverage and at this point even negative leverage net cash fashion and we think that's a prudent way to participate.
And our next question comes from Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to the leasing velocity commentary.
It sounds like it's persisted longer than you had expected.
Just wondering in terms of the 2012 occupancy guidance what kind of leasing velocity is baked into that? I mean it seems like it's been in the call it 500 000 square feet a quarter.
And then as part of that just wondering what your expeditions around the renewal rate will be for 2012.
Okay.
On the velocity we're expecting slightly below what we achieved in 2011 but I'd tell you our first quarter has kicked off in a big way.
And we may address that at some other point but right now that's what's baked into our full year occupancy.
The thing to remember is the level of demand.
I know we haven't talked a lot about it on this call but we have in the past.
There's a tremendous amount of demand out there and there is still no new supply.
And that is what's driving the deal velocity.
And as I mentioned in my example of Dick's replacing a weaker retailer that's not even going to show up in the occupancy rate.
But it is going to show up in the deal velocity and we're going to see more of that.
So we're expecting strong velocity again and we're seeing no signs of slowing down at this point.
Renewal rate hasn't changed at all.
We've typically been in that high-80s in terms of a percentage of renewals but we're taking a much more particular and selective stance even with the renewals and that again is based on the demand.
So we feel good about where we are with the '12 renewals.
We expect no dip -- in fact improvement in the retention rate on renewals and again we can be more selective in how we're going after those renewals in terms of rate and based on the level of demand out there today.
And our next question comes from Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> What do you think the yields are on those Brazilian developments number one? And then would you look anywhere else besides Brazil that's x U.S.
for other opportunities? The yields on an unlevered cash on cost basis Rich are about in the middle teens on a very consistent basis as with a lot of developments.
And talking to others and from past experience in emerging markets they start higher than that.
So I'm happy to tell you that when we approved the deals they started higher than that but that's not really where they come in.
They come in more in the middle teens.
And we think that that's a good number to go on moving forward.
Right now we're not looking to go anywhere else.
Our plate is full.
If you look at our domestic our Puerto Rico redevelopment portfolio and you look at what's going on in Brazil and what we think can happen in Brazil moving forward we think that is a sufficient amount of risk and a sufficient amount of opportunity for us to grow our business in a prudent manner.
Yes those are markets where we think we have an advantage -- operating platform our team our knowledge.
And I just can't say we could make the case for anywhere besides that at this point that we have that same advantage and operating platform and information.
And our next question comes from Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> David just a quick question where do you see overall CapEx levels for 2012? And then tied to that as well you've had a couple of dividend increases over the past 1 or 2 quarters.
Does it feel like the next increase is coming it's more of a 2013 event at this point? Yes on the CapEx side we have been seeing elevated levels of total CapEx because the leasing velocity has been so high so I think we're proud that the CapEx has been higher because it's been tied to velocity while CapEx per square foot has still been relatively low.
It's just been a much larger volume of square feet.
I think as we continue to see a positive leasing environment we continue to see momentum there we continue to see the economics of leases move more in our favor part of that shows up in better leasing spreads.
And part of it shows up very importantly in lower CapEx per square foot.
So I do think you'll still see CapEx in '12 that is above our historic norm but you'll probably see it trend down on an operating leasing CapEx basis forgetting redevelopment.
You'll see that trend down simply because the economics continue to get more in our favor even though the amount of square footage is still going to be quite high.
Secondly on the dividend 2012 did represent an important transition -- or 2011 excuse me did represent an important transition year for us where we moved from the extreme caution of retaining basically as much capital as we could back to a much more normalized payout ratio.
And we did that through several bumps throughout the year.
We had articulated until we had dealt with a majority of our maturities this management team really felt uncomfortable recommending increases to our board.
And so when we saw the volume of refinancing activity we were able to do early in 2011 made the case that the dividend can start getting higher from there and our board agreed and approved that.
We do believe with what was approved for the first quarter of 2012 and the way that we tried to talk about it in our guidance where we guided to a $0.48 annual figure we do think we're back to a more normal policy at this point where we absolutely forecast growth near-term and long-term in cash flow from this portfolio.
And we think you'll see that show up in increased dividends over time.
But I would expect at this point unless something meaningfully changed that we'd be back in a position where we announce an annual dividend policy -- obviously approved each quarter but where you'd expect to see the growth come once a year and then a consistent policy for the remaining 3 quarters of the year.
And we have a follow-up question from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of just putting some of your comments together in terms of increasing the proportion of prime assets and continuing to delever and simplify the story if we look at the EDT transaction with Blackstone I guess was there a consideration of buying a larger equity stake or even the whole portfolio? It just seems that you sort of had the inside running on the deal.
You know the assets intimately.
7.4% cap rate with occupancy upside sort of suggests that whilst most of them are sort of core assets there's that plus in that there's additional upside to them.
And the ingoing yield was attractive so I'm just sort of curious on how you guys thought about that.
Well I'll start.
We thought about it a lot because -- I think you're exactly right Quentin.
We saw the same things that you saw.
Obviously it would have been totally contradictory to our strategy to consider increasing our debt levels to acquire more of the portfolio.
And we weren't really in love with our price of equity at the time to issue more equity to increase our position.
We feel that that was -- there are times when it makes sense to issue equity below NAV.
We felt that this was a prudent way to do it because again it could help us delever without diluting our FFO.
But to take a much bigger stake was a much greater cost we felt.
So we like the opportunity and we wish our balance sheet was in a position to have been more aggressive on the transaction but we felt that we weren't quite there yet.
And that's one of the reasons.
And I think probably the most important reason why we negotiated so hard for the right of first offer on the 10 best assets in the portfolio because I'm confident that we'll get another shot at increasing our position in the 10 assets that recovered the most.
And when we do get that shot we feel very comfortable also that our balance sheet will be in much better shape than it was last month to take advantage of that opportunity.
So we get another bite at the apple and it's our job to work hard to make sure that we're in a position to maximize the benefit of that opportunity.
And we have a follow-up question from Jeffrey Donnelly with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes can you tell us what your same-store NOI and leasing spreads were in the quarter at your pro rata share or perhaps just for the continental U.S.? I'm just curious what the effect is without Puerto Rico and Brazil.
On the spreads they're calculated at 100%.
We didn't break it down by pro rata share.
On the spreads you're not going to see much of a difference there just because Brazil isn't that large of a portion and because you get such significant annual bumps even though you're seeing incredible NOI growth down there.
A lot of it through bumps and not leasing spreads that are that different than what we experience here although they are a little bit higher.
So I'd say on the spread side there's not going to be much of a difference.
On the overall same-store NOI throughout the year we've been at about a 70 basis point spread between the results at 100% compared to the results at our pro rata share.
And the main driver of that was the significantly higher results -- higher same-store NOI in Brazil.
We think that will -- that spread will be reduced as we look out to next year.
And so our guidance that we've talked about for next year of 2% to 3% same-store NOI growth is actually on a pro rata basis because we expect that spread to be much smaller.
And we have a follow-up from the line of Ki Bin Kim with Macquarie.
A similar question.
How do you account for FX and same-store NOI? Is it the completely exclusive? Yes we basically say what's the local growth.
And so the level of FX is fixed for both periods.
So obviously you do see our actual bottom line financial results impacted by FX because we have to translate for income statement purposes at whatever the appropriate rate for the period is.
But for same-store NOI we think the appropriate way to look at it -- we think the question that you're trying to get to is how are the assets growing in local terms not how did the currency change.
And certainly our investment in Brazil is not dependent -- or wasn't a gamble on exchange rates.
It was on the opportunity we see with the assets and so our same-store stats are all reported on a fixed-FX basis.
So there's no benefits -- or in the current period more likely where you'd have a detriment.
But none of that is reflected in same-store NOI.
It is however of course reflected in the income statement at whatever the current period translation rate is.
And a follow-up question from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the G&amp;A you had a charge of $1.4 million in the quarter for executive separation.
What was that exactly? And do you think you have more separation charges to come this year? As you know Rich we continue to build the team here and we continue to pursue individuals that we think could have a dramatic impact on continuing to build the franchise.
And that means that you have to make tough decisions at year end on individuals that have been working here some of them for quite some time.
And that would just be normal policy-driven separation charges for a few our members of our executive committee who are no longer with us and we've replaced with people that we feel can have a bigger impact on the organization.
And another follow-up from Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neil.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
When you guys look at your landholdings or mothballed developments are any of those -- do you think any of those will be suitable for an outlet where one of the outlet developers would be more interested in that land than may make sense for you guys? We've looked at that Alex and in fact in my 12 years here we looked at that on a pretty consistent basis.
And we actually did sell one piece of land many years ago that is now a very successful outlet.
But their criteria is very very specific for their business and not always consistent with ours.
We do -- obviously we have great relationships with the people that are the leaders in that field.
We have talked to them on a regular basis about our landholdings because we are aggressively trying to reduce it.
But as of now I would say the likelihood of that happening is pretty slim because again their standards and their requirements are a little different than ours.
Also as you know a lot of the outlets have -- need a respectable distance from full-price retail particularly those that are generated by large and super regional malls.
And a lot of our sites are very close to malls.
And so the overlap would preclude leasing in some cases.
So we think about that we look at it we get excited when we hear about the great success and expansion that the outlet guys are having.
And we certainly go to them with our land portfolio but I think the likelihood of a transaction is pretty low.
Ladies and gentlemen with no further questions this concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back to management for closing remarks.
Again we'd like to thank you all for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with you at the conclusion of the first quarter.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2012 DDR Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jasmine and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I will now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today Mr.
Samir Khanal Senior Director of Investor Relations.
You may proceed.
Good morning and thanks for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from President and CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and Chief Financial Officer David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Samir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
We continue to be very pleased with our operating results performance of our platform sales results and growth aspirations of our retail partners and the receptivity we continue to receive from the capital markets.
All factors when combined continue to provide consistent performance long-term value creation and a simplified story that continues to enjoy a very positive momentum.
Paul and David will provide you with more details in a moment but suffice it to say we are very pleased with our progress and remained firmly committed to the strategic objectives that we have articulated to the market over the past few years.
The strategy is working and we have no reason to doubt its continued success.
Undesirable assets are being sold; quality assets are being bought; vacancy is being leased and occupancy rates continue to grow with improved credit quality of cash flows; projects are being redeveloped providing new store opportunities for our retail partners; access to capital is abundant as leverage metrics continue to improve and our maturity profile continues to expand; and NAV continues to grow as financial engineering and short-term FFO focus continues to become a distant memory.
So overall we are very pleased and see continued runway for continued positive results moving forward.
Before turning the call over to Paul I'd like to share with you one observation that I have noticed over the past few months as I have traveled to meet with many of you through the non-deal roadshow process.
Whether it's folks trying to grab catchy headlines at the expense of actual retail operating results or individuals attempting to paint a specific business with an inappropriately broadbrush it's important to keep in mind that the success of our tenants is completely dependent on the merchandising presented to the consumer by our retailers and the receptivity that that consumer has to the inventory contained in the store.
While many attempt to link the issues of our retailer like Best Buy with the fate of other junior anchor retailers it's important to keep in mind that comparing the market conditions of a Best Buy to the market conditions of a T.J.
Maxx or Bed Bath &amp; Beyond for example is equal to comparing the results of Sears to that of a department store such as Macy's.
There simply is no link.
These are vastly different companies with vastly different strategies different merchandising expertise and therefore vastly different results.
There is no broad generalization that one can make intelligently about merchandising except the obvious conclusion that great merchants win and bad merchants lose.
And since we live in a world with great transparency guessing and sweeping generalization is simply not necessary.
The future of the department store is not linked to the fate of a struggling company no differently than the future of a junior anchor is linked to the fate of a struggling co-tenant especially when they consistently trade in different merchandise at a different price point.
The numbers are what they are.
That is why retailers that operate side-by-side in the same asset consistently show vastly different results.
It's not primarily about the real estate and it's not primarily about the box.
It's what's inside the box that matters and will ultimately determine the success or failure of a retail concept.
It's not about whether you operate in a mall outlet center power center or grocery anchored neighborhood center it's about the merchandise you present to the consumer as a merchant whose primary task is to distribute the right goods at the right time at the right price.
Clearly certain retail asset classes are better suited for some retailers over others.
That is why some of us have unique proprietary relationships with our top tenants.
And quality real estate absolutely enhances the opportunity to succeed.
However if you are a lousy merchant in the best Simon mall or outlet center or a lousy merchant in the best regency or federal neighborhood center or a lousy merchant in the best DDR power center the real estate will not bail you out.
We have seen this play out time and time again since the inception of the shopping center and this fact will not change.
Retailers win on product and not on just location marketing public relations and image campaigns.
While those aspects are important as part of the business they will not prevail if they drive consumers into the store for a consistently disappointing experience.
Again that is why you see vacancy in assets at superior locations with enviable overall sales productivity and we also see surprising structural vacancy at the most celebrated and well-managed portfolios that produce the highest sales per square foot results in all of retail.
The real estate provides the opportunity for sure but clearly not all retailers are successful in capitalizing.
So as retailers in every asset class are forced to retool their merchandising strategy to adjust to the changing needs and demands of the consumer it is important to keep in mind that effort is very individual and makes almost no statement about the visibility of the asset class in general.
Some will adapt and some will disappear.
Either speaks directly to the retailer merchandising strategy the response to competition and the confidence of the corporate merchant group.
At the end of the day while there are many aspects of the retail business that must be considered none is more important than the merchandising strategy of the individual retailer and the consumer acceptance or rejection of the inventory contained within the 4 walls of the box whether that box is 2 000 square feet or 200 000 square feet.
As you think of the challenging business headlines for every retail segment whether at certain department stores at particular junior anchor grocer or even mom-and-pop results keep in mind that retail is an intensely competitive unprotected business.
Good ideas today are employed by your competitors tomorrow.
But strong competition breeds excellence for those well-prepared and talented enough to respond.
So like the retail real estate business platform matters for retailers as well and ultimately the merchandising strategy of the platform will determine the fate of an operator over time regardless of what may be happening in the space next door.
I'll now turn the call over to Paul.
Thank you Dan.
Today I want to call attention to one aspect of our re-leasing results that speaks volumes about the operational performance of our platform and that is the positive trends we are experiencing within our lease renewal results.
It's easy for these results to be overshadowed by the variety of good news being generated by our portfolio but renewals make the strongest and most economically meaningful statement about existing sales productivity profitability and asset quality.
In Q1 we had a record volume of renewals with 367 deals representing 2.3 million square feet of space.
This number is approximately 20% higher than the quarterly square foot average we achieved in 2011 which in and of itself was a record year.
This success is directly attributable to the quality of our portfolio combined with the landlord-friendly supply/demand dynamic.
Our results also highlight the fact that retailers are increasingly unwilling to lose an irreplaceable store at a prime asset.
Economically we executed these renewals at a 5.4% rental increase on a cash basis and more importantly on a pro rata basis to spread gross to 5.9%.
Similarly first quarter new deals were executed at a 6% rental increase.
And on a pro rata basis this spread is 300 basis points higher at 9%.
These spreads are bolstered by our continued efforts to dispose of non-prime assets to enhance our overall portfolio quality.
Clearly this strategy has been a great success and we continue to enjoy the addition of positive metrics through the substraction of lesser quality assets.
Importantly this quarter's renewal metrics represent a continuation of positive renewal spread that dates back to the second quarter of 2010.
Moreover as our overall occupancy number continues to increase and the supply/demand metric continues to favor the landlord community I fully expect renewal rates to stabilize in the mid- to high single digits going forward.
As also disclosed in our supplement renewals are achieved with little to no CapEx and require no downtime so the economic impact of these transactions is even more meaningful as we are enhancing overall portfolio rental growth without buying the gain.
As a result of strong overall first quarter activity our lease rate as of March 31 was 93.7%.
This represents a 10 basis point increase sequentially and a 110 basis point increase annually.
This increase is particularly impactful as historically we have seen an average decline in occupancy in the first quarter due to the seasonal nature of tenant fallout lease expirations and limited commencements.
It's also important to note that the first quarter stability is highly indicative of a vastly improved credit quality of cash flow and the strong credit profile of our key tenants.
Going forward we expect continued stability as our tenant watch list continues to be slim and dispositions when coupled with recent acquisitions additionally fortify that segment of our income stream.
From a leasing perspective we remain confident in our ability to maintain momentum throughout 2012 and we'll keep you posted on future occupancy guidance as the year progresses.
In that regard we will be attending RECon in Las Vegas in a few weeks where we will get additional color on the leasing environment for the remainder of 2012 and beyond.
Since we meet with our tenants on a regular basis we are rarely surprised by any news that comes out of RECon but we are always inquisitive as we determine our role in the delivery of space for future retailer open-to-buys that are often discussed in detail at this show.
As I'm sure many of you saw on our press release after the Best Buy store closing announcement the impact to us was negligible.
You may ask yourself why that was and the answer is very simple: the stores that populate our centers make money and that is the quintessential factor for a viable retailer making such a real estate decision.
In that regard you can also assume that the stores slated to close do not make money and the company would be more profitable without them.
Interestingly the decision to close had nothing to do with door size or how close to one of the coast the store was.
Also not shocking to us it had nothing to do with how many people reside in the 3-mile radius.
In fact the store closings announced included coveted markets such as New York City Boston Chicago Los Angeles San Francisco and D.C.
Markets that many have paid and will continue to pay a premium to enter.
Using a 7-mile range those actual store closings had average populations of about 1.5 million people with over $100 000 in average household income.
While these numbers are staggeringly impressive to Dan's earlier point they do not guarantee success.
That's 5 closed just 50 of their least profitable stores and economics drove the decision not demographics and not proximity to an ocean.
Smart investment decisions are based on operating results and profitability driven by merchandising.
And once again great ammos and great real estate cannot bail out poor performance.
Going forward we are encouraged that Best Buy is pursuing a management change and hopefully a revised merchandising strategy will not be far behind.
But once again this closure list proves that retail is a local business driven by local results and regardless of who occupies the space at any given time the results can and will be dramatically different.
This is why we stay close to our tenants evaluate our real estate accordingly and do not become intoxicated with numbers that often have no bearing on future success.
And finally as Dan mentioned there are winners and losers in the retail game of market share.
If you haven't already read the note published on Monday by Adrianne Shapira Managing Director and Retail Equity Analyst at Goldman Sachs you should.
Adrianne's note estimates the significant market share loss of J.
C.
Penney and points out who the obvious winners are in picking up that business most of whom are value-oriented retailers and key tenants in our portfolio.
This shift in market share goes well beyond this specific example.
Over the past decade we have seen a secular shift in the business away from department stores to value-oriented retailers such as Ross; TJX with its various concepts; Target; Bed Bath &amp; Beyond; and others.
As we all know retail is a game of taking market share and it's very reassuring to see our primary tenants capture the market share loss of a struggling competitor.
And with that I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $66.8 million or $0.24 per share for the first quarter.
Including nonoperating items FFO for the quarter was $59.7 million or $0.21 per share.
Nonoperating items were primarily lost on the retirement proportion of our 9 5/8% unsecured notes during the quarter.
Operating results and operating FFO per share came in above our internal projections as reflected in our guidance for slower growth in the first half of 2012.
We are pleased with our operating performance this quarter with pro rata same-store NOI growth of 2.3% including approximately 2% growth in our domestic portfolio.
And we continue to feel comfortable that these results will accelerate in each of the next 3 quarters of the year based upon the visible pipeline of signed leases.
Over the last few years you've seen us aggressively pursue opportunities to position DDR for above average long-term growth and net asset value while also lowering the company's risk profile and cost of capital.
And we are very pleased with what we've been able to accomplish in that regard so far in 2012.
Since the beginning of the year we raised close to $700 million of capital comprised of nearly $320 million of equity and over $350 million of debt with an average interest rate of 3.3% and term of 6.6 years.
During the first 4 months of the year we committed $340 million of investment in high-quality prime shopping centers all of which will be funded with proceeds from equity issued and asset sale proceeds.
Financing attractively priced acquisitions with equity and the proceeds of asset sales has allowed us to significantly grow our portfolio of unencumbered wholly-owned prime shopping centers.
Our recently high-quality balance sheet acquisitions in Chicago Portland and Phoenix were added to the unencumbered pool further improving the size and quality of that portfolio.
Today our unencumbered pool consists of 193 shopping centers that generate approximately $300 million of NOI.
During the first quarter we substantially addressed all of our 2012 consolidated debt maturities.
The debt capital I referred to earlier was used to retire $184 million of convertible notes that matured in March reduced outstanding balances on our revolving credit facilities and effectively prefund all of our 2012 mortgage debt maturities.
Remaining maturities consist of $223 million of unsecured notes maturing in October and $13 million of mortgage debt.
And we have nearly full availability on our $815 million revolving credit facilities.
We have no other unsecured bonds maturing in the next 3 years further enhancing our flexibility.
In March 31 our weighted average debt maturity was 4.5 years a significant improvement from 2.9 years at the end of 2009 and continued progress from the 3.9 years at the end of 2010 4.3 years at the end of 2011.
Our annual maturities are very manageable and we expect our cost of capital to continue to improve as well.
Fitch upgraded our credit rating in January and S&amp;P upgraded our outlook to positive in February.
Our progress since then is lowered leverage and strength in our maturity profile.
And we remain absolutely committed to lowering leverage further as we work to regain our consensus in investment grade ratings.
With respect to unconsolidated debt maturities our DDR TC venture has obtained commitments for the refinancing of the $540 million term loan and the $200 million revolving credit facility and we expect to close those 3- to 5-year financings in the coming weeks.
These transactions are direct the majority of our 2012 earnings consolidated maturities and we are actively making progress on the remainder.
In the first quarter we generated gross proceeds of $45 million through asset sales.
Included in these figures is $27 million from the sale of non-inc producing [non-income producing] assets including our development site in Yaroslavl 1 of 2 land assets [ph] in Russia.
An additional $81 million of assets are currently under contract for sale including $29 million of non-inc producing assets.
Since 2010 DDR has disposed of $1.3 billion of primarily non-prime assets in secondary and tertiary markets.
The non-prime assets sold were 72% leased and average household incomes and populations within a 7-mile radius were approximately $69 000 and 239 000 people respectively.
In comparison our $450 million of prime investments since 2011 were 96% leased and average household incomes and populations were approximately $84 000 and 360 000 people respectively.
As you can see through our capital recycling program we've been able to significantly strengthen the quality of the portfolio from demographic credit quality of cash flow and long-term NOI growth and stability perspective.
We are being very diligent in underwriting potential acquisitions and despite a competitive market we are pleased to be finding select off-market opportunities.
Since you probably noticed from our press release we've raised the low-end of our 2012 guidance by $0.02 and now project operating FFO per share of $1 to $1.04 for the full year up from the range of $0.98 to $1.04 originally provided in January.
Strong operating results during the first 4 months of the year relative to budget combined with the volume of tenant closures below what we projected in the lower end of our range drove the change in our 2012 guidance.
We continue to project same-store NOI growth of 2% to 3% for the year with the majority of this growth in the back half of 2012 and we are pleased to be comfortable in raising our guidance at this time despite accelerated steps to improve portfolio and balance sheet quality.
While EBITDA and NAV per share growth continue to be our focus we are encouraged to guide to our first year of FFO per share growth in 5 years and we expect this trend to continue.
At this point operator we would be happy to turn the call over for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from the line of Mr.
Craig Smith with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Dan or Paul or whoever I'm just wondering have the best power centers in the nation already been built? Are we kind of approaching some sort of maturity? And it seems like when development slowed it was more cyclical but as time passes you start to think it may be somewhat systemic? I think that's a great question Craig and I don't think we really know the answer to that.
We know that there's not a lot of great power centers being built and I don't think there's going to be a lot being built going forward and certainly in the near future.
I do think there's going to be additional opportunity over time because there are lifecycles to retail projects.
As we see all retail projects have a lifecycle and there's going to be an opportunity to recycle some of those properties and with new formats new merchandising strategies new tenants there is going to be an opportunity at some point for growth of development in our business.
But I don't think it's going to happen anytime soon.
And I think that as we continue to watch market share shift to the primary tenants and power centers that will beg the question of whether there should be additional external growth to accommodate that market share shift and we're going to have to address that going forward.
But I think we're going to start having that conversation a lot more in the next 12 months and the reason is as 2012 open-to-buys I think are in good shape.
2013 I think we will find -- and when we talked to tenants in Vegas are not in great shape.
And certainly 2014 are certainly not in great shape.
And meeting open-to-buy requirements is going to put an awful lot of pressure on the retailer.
What that actually does for development and whether that generates new opportunity we'll have to wait and see.
But it is definitely a topic that is going to be discussed thoroughly and I think it's going to become a more substantial discussion in the next 12 months.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I know this gets talked about every quarter and all of you guys have talked about getting a better sense for the leasing environment at ICSC but just wanted to hear your updated thoughts.
The lease to commence occupancy GAAP is at 200 basis points now you've talked about the potential for that narrowing down to maybe 150 to 175 or have been in the longer term backed down to a more normal [Audio Gap].
The leasing velocity's been good and the leased rate keeps increasing.
So I'm wondering after another quarter of leasing embedded in your guidance where do you see the company at yearend in terms of both the leased rate and the leased to occupancy GAAP? And David you talked about higher same-store NOI growth sort of at the back half of the year is that because of timing of lease commencement? Christy this is Paul and I'll start with the spread between the commenced and leased and the leased occupancy.
We're comfortable 4 months into the year with our prior guidance of 100-basis-point improvement over yearend 2011 in occupancy and it's still early.
We don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves so we're comfortable with that number.
There might possibly be some adjustments as we close on the EDT Blackstone transaction later in the second quarter.
But again we're comfortable with the 100-basis-point improvement.
In terms of the spread you and I talked about this for many quarters now it's -- we're in uncharted waters with the 200 basis points spread between commenced and leased rate and it has to come down.
It hasn't come down as quickly as we thought.
It actually came down a little bit in the first quarter and part of that was fewer move outs and some activity in Brazil but the fact is it has to come down as we move closer and closer to a full occupancy number.
But I wouldn't even venture a guess because we've been wrong before in terms of where that spread's going to be over the next few quarters.
But it's certainly not going to get down to that historic rate of 50 to 100 basis points by the end of this year.
We still have that spread but it has to come down.
And on the back half of your question Christy the higher same-store NOI growth later in the year.
The direction of your question was exactly in line with the way we're looking at it and budgeting it.
It's really mostly signed leases that commence later this year that drive that growth and on top of that you're comping a period where we were getting back some blockbuster and border space in the back half of last year so I think it's very strong results forecasted based on visible leasing as well as a period where we did take a little bit of a hit late in fourth quarter.
You saw that go into the first quarter and we comfortably expect an acceleration in same-store NOI as we look out over the rest of the year.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> If I just kind of stay on the leasing side and look at your disclosure by size you continue to make progress on the small shops and there was 70-basis-point improvement on the under 2 500 but then it kind of went back a little bit on the 5 000 to 20 000 square feet.
It sounds like you're pretty constructive on kind of based on what you see regaining that momentum but is there any specific in terms of that you mentioned maybe Blockbuster maybe rolled into the first quarter as well? But in terms of the 5 000 to 20 000 square feet anything noteworthy there in terms of the 50-basis-point or so decline? And then on the small shops is it too early to say that Set Up Shop could be doing anything for the small guys? Yes let me start with the smallest side Paul it's been a real focus obviously of ours and some of our peers at 2 500 and less.
And Set Up Shop while it's not moving the needle.
It certainly has some positive.
We've been pleasantly surprised we probably have about 15 deals signed or close to being signed in less than only 2 months of this initiative.
It really has been a pleasant surprise.
And we're going to move on and as we've announced recently we're going to roll it out in Florida.
It doesn't sound like a big deal but if there's 15 deals done in Atlanta we only identified about 100 specific spaces for the program so immediately we're picking up on our recovery rate in those centers.
And hopefully as we continue to work with the new tenants and establish their business we're going to have some long-term play at that some significantly higher rents but that's not the entire story behind the improvement in the 2 500.
Consolidation of shop space is a big deal and that really has been more of an impact on that smallest space versus the 5 to 10 or even the 5 to 20.
Since 2010 I think we've been there and we have this in our investor presentation about 100 -- 300 units almost 800 000 square feet that we have combined to larger units with players like Ulta and Shoe Carnival and Kirkland's and Carter's.
So that's all good news.
And we'll continue to -- I look at the first quarter in terms of the 5 to 20 as a -- where that declines rather lowest square footage improved it's just a blood.
That space will come back.
Again we're just focused on the small shop space.
They've been the big beneficiary of the consolidation whether it's expanding existing units or combining 3 units into one tenant such as PetSmart.
But again it's a real focus of ours and we're pleased with the improvements today.
It might be worth taking a look we do have a revised investor presentation online.
And there is -- we do discuss at length on Page 34 where we talked about small shop absorption and what's happening in the portfolio and on Page 49 we talked about small shop consolidation.
And it's really what Paul was talking about.
So while the absorption rate continues to improve so move-ins are exceeding move-outs fairly dramatically and that is something that didn't occur obviously in the last couple of years and we've also started to materially impact the portfolio from a consolidation perspective.
So if you go to the investor presentation that we have on our website those 2 sections I think are pretty illustrative of what we're seeing in the market.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Jason White with Green Street Advisors.
I just had a quick question.
Hopefully you could provide some color on breaking out the releasing spreads and the same-property NOIs for the U.S.
and Brazilian portfolios.
Yes on the same-store NOI I think we wanted to be responsive to feedback we got regarding not just the internal way that the operating platform here looks at all the assets is the same so look at 100% view.
We wanted to make sure we were addressing what the investment community thought was most valuable so we have added for good amount of disclosure on a pro rata operating stats and so what we disclosed was that at 100% same-store NOI was 2.9%; on a pro rata basis looking at our economic ownership interest in all the assets it was 2.3%; and if we dissect that number between domestic and Brazil Brazil was still by far the highest at around 9%; domestic same-store NOI growth was around 2% for the quarter.
On leasing spread there hasn't been that much of a difference between the 2 whether you're looking back or on a forecast basis looking forward largely because while the growth overall has been higher in Brazil a lot of that is captured through more significant annual rental bumps and so they really seem spread in Brazil have not been meaningfully different than domestically.
Certain quarters they've been higher certain quarters they've been lower.
In general they've probably been slightly higher but not a material difference there just because so much has picked up from the annual bumps and so the end of the lease isn't as meaningful down there for the releasing spread.
And also on the renewal and new deal spreads the difference with a pro rata it's important to note that point up a strength of the wholly-owned portfolio and that's one of the reasons we're showing this.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I'm on with Jordan Sadler as well.
Dan I appreciate your comments at the -- in your prepared remarks about the merchandising of retailers and I was just wondering how do you underwrite or evaluate that view with your decisions to sign leases today should we read into that that DDR has become more selective with regard to signing leases with new tenants? And then also how do you sort of view new leases versus renewals with all that in mind? Can you elaborate on that a bit? Sure Todd.
It's a great question.
And we have become more selective because we paid a price.
We've made some mistakes down the line primarily not in leases that we wrote ourselves.
But on the acquisition side really not being critical enough of some of the leases that were on in assets that we acquired when we didn't have great faith in some of the merchandising strategy and some of the retailers that we paid full price for and that's something that we are being very careful not just in who we sign leases with but how we're evaluating acquisition opportunities as well.
The way we mitigate that really is by spending a lot of time with the tenants and not just meeting with real estate department but are often meeting with merchants or talking with the financial folks about what their business plan and their business model is.
But retail is an incredibly treacherous business because really it is a voracious consumer of capital and if you're wrong if you miss in any given season or in some cases with some of the tenants that are out there you miss in multiple quarters over several years it absolutely devours your cash situation.
And so while there are many tenants out there that have very little debt and have lots of cash that can go away very quickly if you're wrong and if you're repeatedly wrong.
So we have to be very very sensitive to it.
We have -- fortunately we have a number of people in this company starting at the Vice President level on-off that has spent a lot of time working for retailers.
And I think that gives us an advantage because when we walk through a store we understand what to look for.
And I think we also understand what questions to ask when we meet with retailers we can get a good feel for what the strategy is.
There are clearly tenants that we're not anxious to do business with and it's not because they're not great people it's not because they don't have beautiful stores it's because we're not so sure how sustainable the business model is based on what we see when we tour the stores and that is something that we discuss on a regular basis.
So it comes up it comes up in conversation we have become much more selective.
As our occupancy rate goes up you become even more selective because you have the opportunity to do so.
And I don't see any reason why that won't continue based on the leasing trends that we see.
The selectivity is also another positive dividend from the philosophical change from an FFO per share focused company to a net asset value per share focused company.
And if you don't have that philosophy right at the top it's going to drive every little decision whether you think they'd be tied into seniormost level philosophy or not.
And I'll tell you in the past when you're underwriting who is going to contribute the most to FFO per share next year.
You cared less about how much capital you might be putting into a suboptimal tenant you cared less about credit quality and you cared more about what that day one headline rent was going to be.
And at this point when we're saying the goal is what makes this portfolio as valuable as possible over time with a relatively low risk profile it means let's be very cautious about putting capital into deals with tenants we don't feel great about and it also means someone paying you a little less today but its cash flow stream might be valued at a higher multiple or lower cap rate could be very important for us and so you see that philosophy coming down and driving that selectivity also.
I think it's worth pointing out just one example to what both Dan and David were talking about where we had an existing tenant replace For Your Entertainment FYE in 2 centers current on their rent with a lot of term and we had the ability to do 2 [indiscernible] deals.
That's the position we're in now with the prime assets where we could terminate and achieve little bit of a fee from FYE and put in a much much stronger long-term player index.
Your next question will come from the line of Carol Kemple with Hilliard Lyons.
Research Division</strong> In your results when you talk about at a 100% ownership is that assuming that everything in a joint venture you all own 100%? Or what's kind of difference between that and a pro rata basis? Yes that's exactly right Carol.
And historically I think because the internal focus and the way that our operating departments look at it it is we own this entire portfolio we are responsible for leasing and managing this entire portfolio.
And so internally to make sure that our people are just as focused that we do share a duty we have on behalf of a partner even if DDR only owns 10% or the greater financial impact of that on our results we own 100%.
From an Investor Relations and accounting standpoint we've got to be focused on the pro rata figures in terms of what has been the most economic impact.
But the reality is individual leasing professionals are working their hardest to lease all of our assets and in many cases aren't even exactly aware of how something is owned.
And so for us we had historically reported everything on a 100% basis simply because internally that is how the operating department look at it but have certainly wanted to respond to feedback we've gotten over the past year about the value of pro rata statistics and so that's why we've added that disclosure.
So the numbers comparable to prior periods are the at 100% the pro rata disclosures is something we added this quarter and that we will keep going on a go-forward basis.
I think it's also important to note that some of the numbers when you look at it on a pro rata basis are somewhat surprising.
One of the things I think many people assume was that you didn't do pro rata because the numbers would have been inferior if you did it on a consolidated basis.
But if you really look at the numbers and you go back to what Paul said during his script for the first quarter new deals were executed at a 6% rental increase but on a pro rata basis the spread was at 9% rental increase.
So actually the whole young portfolio in many respects is performing at a higher-level than some of the other assets that we had in joint venture.
So I think that's -- there's some very good news to be had when looking at it both from a consolidated and a pro rata basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about some of the lease stats where you have the noncomparable space.
It's been give or take 20% to 25% of total leasing just under 5% of the total portfolio of the last 12 to 18 months.
And I'm just curious sort of what impact -- because you don't give the spreads but what sort of impact has that had on sort of underlying same-store NOI in terms of the growth of the business? And then just David can you just clarify just -- I know we're dealing with decimal points but U.S.
you said was about 2% is it -- can you just give the -- is it 1.5%? Is it 1.7%? Is it 2.2%? And does it include Puerto Rico? And if we could get the disclosure on a country basis going forward so I don't have to ask it on the call that would be helpful as well.
Sure Michael a couple things.
One for just domestic U.S.
consolidated assets the same-store NOI growth was exactly 2%.
Puerto Rico this quarter happened to be slightly lower than that and so including Puerto Rico with that hybrid domestic you'd be slightly below 2% at 1.9% for the consolidated domestic portfolio with Puerto Rico included.
And so we're happy to give more information there.
One of the challenges is of course Sonae Sierra Brasil is a public company at this point.
Sonae Sierra Brasil has not reported their first quarter earnings and they are traditionally on a period that is slightly after ours.
And so there are some stats that just because they are a public company with other shareholders that were simply not going to be able to give in this great detail and that are going to have to come out of the detailed disclosure that they provide.
The one thing that I'll say about the leasing split between comparable and noncomparable is just a nomenclature issue.
That is not meant to be what's defined in our same-store.
So our same-store relates to which assets haven't changed don't have redevelopment activity and have been owned for the requisite period of time.
It's not simply a comparable noncomparable being defined as what's in same-store NOI and what's not in same-store NOI.
A large portion of that noncomparable could be in same-store NOI it's just the space has been changed.
In one way or another it could be in some cases assets that we acquired from England or someone else where they just haven't been leased and that's a period of time where we simply don't have comparable information and so it's not meant to be some secret number that we have that we go out of our way to disclose.
There isn't a comparable calculation that would make any sense to disclose there and so I think that's why we've consistently pointed people to the renewal spread as a much more legitimate economic indicator.
But what's going on with rental rates we provide the disclosure on new leasing but did want to make sure you have that distinction.
The comparable versus noncomparable as defined here is not consistent with same-store versus non-same-store.
It could be a lot of different reasons that it gets into that other bucket.
And the other reason why renewal rates are the right indicator and a good fuel for what's happening in the portfolio is because it makes something in any given quarter between 70% and 80% of the total deal volume that occurs.
So when you're putting up the numbers that we're putting up and you have real good numbers on 70% to 80% of that it really is the indicator of what's happening in the portfolio.
That's why you see such a wide variety of new deal spreads throughout the industry because some folks do a lot of deals that are new and some people do 5 deals a quarter that our new.
And it has a huge impact on what the actual spread is.
So we're very focused.
As Paul mentioned in the script we're very focused on the renewals and we think that that's a good leading indicator on the health of the portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with UBS.
Research Division</strong> And following up on the renewal rates discussion you talked about leasing spreads being sustainable in the mid- to high single digits.
And just looking at your lease expirations schedule for the less than 10 000 square-foot space it seems like the average expiring rent for 2012 is much higher at about $30 a foot than the portfolio average.
Is there something sort of weird there going on in terms of the space mix? Or should we be worried at all about spreads narrowing on that space this year? Yes there is.
There is something -- that's a Brazil story Christy.
There's some centers turning on their 10-year term on it so we're seeing a high percentage of renewals in the Brazil portfolio.
And that's really what's driving that less than 10 000 square foot base rent number up.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dan I think you mentioned the 2013 to 2014 open-to-buys and rent is there any chance this can lead to more redevelopment and possibly improve non-prime assets to the point where it's prime again? Yes I think it will.
I think that's exactly right Rich.
We are seeing a situations now where projects are coming up on the redevelopment platform and we are converting some of the assets from non-prime to prime as a result of tenant interest.
And I think that will increase as folks come to the realization that development is not going to accelerate dramatically anytime soon.
And I do think though when you go to Vegas and you walk around you will see a lot of development projects that are being presented.
Many more I think this year than you've seen in past years but I'm not so sure they get built.
So I do think the opportunity and what you have the space that you have going forward should be worth more to tenants.
And it will prompt I think expansion of the redevelopment if not acceleration of the redevelopment program.
I think it's going to be very very necessary for the tenants to look at redevelopment opportunities to look at prototype size to increase their flexibility to look at even new concepts Rich because many of these concepts are there.
And the opportunities to enter into markets may not be at the existing price point it might be with new merchandise at a different price point.
I think we're going to a fascinating period of time where over the next 2 or 3 years we're going to see the retail business evolve in a way that's going to be very very exciting and that's why we spent like I mentioned earlier so much time with the tenants because you never get the same answer twice.
There's a lot of things happening that's moving very very quickly and we need to stay in front of it.
Redevelopment is something that I think will continue to be prominent.
And I know a lot of folks are talking about it and many of our peers are doing a great job with it.
I wouldn't be surprised if it accelerated even further.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I figure I'd give it one more shot.
Where I was going with the non-comp space was just given that it's -- in the last 15 months is 3.3 million square feet and I fully recognize that renewals is almost 8 million square feet over the last 15 months and that's even well over 10% of the portfolio.
But I'm just trying to get a handle on this 3.3 million square feet that's been leased over the last 15 months it's almost 5% of the portfolio.
What was underlying -- how were those leases affecting 2012? Is it a substantial contributor? Or is it more of a downsize opportunities where rent on a basis is coming down? Just to really understand what that impact is on the financials.
It's a substantial contributor Mike.
And downsizing opportunities do not mean rent is coming down by the way.
In many cases it means rent is going up.
And there's some good examples of that in the investor presentation that's online.
So the assumption that the rent is coming down on the downsize particularly in the prime asset where you're not in a distress situation you're going to see rents go up it's an opportunity to mark-to-market.
So that's why we like downsizing that's why we're pushing for downsizing.
The new deals they're a substantial contributor because they were vacant for the most parts.
And when those numbers come online it usually takes more than a year to see the full contribution if that's really sort of your question.
Because as you know most of our tenants don't open at any time during the year.
And whenever we do deals we're lucky if we get a partial year in the year that they open.
And then you have to wait until the next year to get the full year.
So the contribution for the year in which the deal is done sometimes is 0 sometimes it's minimal but it's significant the following full year that you get the impact of the rent.
And that's why you're seeing the same sort of NOI in the portfolio go up over historical averages even though the leasing velocity has been great the benefit for 2012 is really for deals that were done in 2011 and some actually that were done in 2010 but you don't get the full year benefit until 2012.
Same thing is going happen in '11 for 2013 and same thing will happen in 2014 for the deals that are being done in 2012.
So the contribution is significant.
We're not giving rent away.
The basis in those space is usually 0 because they've been vacant for an extended period of time and are consolidated deals and downsizing.
The truth is we don't have to do them if we don't make money and we're not doing them if we don't make money and if it's not positive to the overall NOI growth at the asset level.
And at this time we have no further questions.
I would like to turn the call over to the DDR management for closing remarks.
Thank you very much for joining us and we look forward to touching base with you at the end of the next quarter.
Have a good day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful call -- have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 DDR Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Chanel and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Samir Khanal Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from President and CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and Chief Financial Officer David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand that those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Samir and good morning everyone.
As we navigate through the slow summer months of the retail environment with the overhang of our presidential election adding uncertainty in the market we at DDR find ourselves in a position of strength with tremendous opportunity.
June retail sales results were below expectations for most retailers but not for all and most importantly not for many of our key tenants.
Off-price retailers and discount stores grabbed profitable market share with sales results beating expectations and earnings guidance revised upwardly.
Moreover store opening plans for our retail partners were generally maintained or raised and the secular negative trend in the traditional grocery business most recently highlighted by the SUPERVALU situation will continue to benefit our prime portfolio in the long-term.
From a capital markets perspective we've made further progress with our balance sheet by opportunistically accessing the unsecured market and most recently the preferred market at very attractive rates resulting in a lower cost of capital and an improved maturity profile.
With regard to our capital recycling and portfolio management activities we continue to prune the portfolio of nonprime assets and weak retailers and source acquisitions of prime power centers while simultaneously simplifying our story.
The quality of our portfolio and the credit quality of our cash flows have never been better and the outlook for continued improvement is encouraging.
Overall we are very pleased with the consistency of our operating results and the performance of our platform the sales results and the market share gains of our key retailers the continued success of our capital recycling program and the continued improvement in our balance sheet to the execution of our capital markets strategy.
While our progress has been steady and consistent we are constantly reminded of our surroundings and specifically the concerns of the market most recently regarding an economic slowdown.
The questions we've been hearing indicate a market searching for clarity regarding the growth outlook for our retailers the propensity for consumers to continue spending and how this translates to the real estate portion of the equation.
Given the various moving pieces it is important to note that retailers make domestic real estate decisions based on sales and profit forecasts and their cost and access to capital which remains very strong as opposed to any particular election cycle or events in Europe.
We continue to work with our retailers to meet their growth aspirations in a supply-constrained environment and there has been no indication of a slowdown.
In terms of the consumer we don't have to guess where they are shopping and spending their money on everyday products.
Ready-to-wear is being purchased at off-price retailers that offer branded and private label goods at a discount price as the vast majority of consumers seek bargains and promotional pricing presented in a simple manner.
One only needs to look at the recent results of J.
C.
Penney and the recently-announced pricing policy adjustment to confirm this fact.
Groceries are being purchased at large discount stores warehouse clubs and specialty grocers.
Consumers in this economic environment more than ever demand value and convenience as they look to maximize their dollar.
This plays to our strength.
While there is certainly reason for us to be mindful and cautious of the macro environment in which we currently operate there is no good reason to be negative now or in the foreseeable future particularly based on the sales and profitability of our retail partners and the visibility of our property level cash flows.
Please remember leases are executed well in advance of projected openings in our guidance which includes continued same-store NOI growth in Q3 and Q4 accounts for those contractual obligations.
Before turning the call over to Paul I would like to address the effectuation of a strategic objective at our company as it relates to our development pipeline and the disclosure you likely reviewed in our supplemental after our earnings release last night.
During the second quarter we made a $20 million investment in a fully entitled and 100% leased development site in Charlotte North Carolina.
The project known as Belgate is nearly a 900 000 square foot power center that features an IKEA Walmart Supercenter and a 170 000 square feet of junior anchor space.
This is the only IKEA between Atlanta and Washington D.C.
which makes us a truly unique regional site.
The project is expected to fully open in spring 2013.
Belgate represents an innovative approach to meeting the growth aspirations of our retail partners without assuming the risk associated with traditional development.
As you've heard us mention since the formulation of our strategic plan our development strategy has been to monetize our existing land which is well underway and find new projects that enable us to leverage our platform and present upsized returns without assuming standard or historical development risks.
While we have reviewed many projects over the past few years we were consistently unenthused with the offerings.
Belgate however represents one of the few opportunities to make an investment in a development project that has certainty of execution and that will realize development-like returns without taking traditional development risk.
We anticipate that our cash-on-cost unlevered yield for this project will comfortably exceed 10%.
The criteria for these investments have been fully entitled with verifiable tenant demand no major due diligence items outstanding and appropriate risk-adjusted unlevered cash-on-cost yield make projects like Bellgate very difficult to find.
Bellgate however meets the qualifications and we are very pleased with this opportunity to build another prime asset and add this to our portfolio.
I will now turn the call over to Paul.
Thank you Dan.
As evidenced by another quarter of high leasing production we continue to see strong demand for space in our portfolio.
A combination of continuing growth from market share winning retailers and limited new supply is resulting in competition for space and positive trends in terms of occupancy gains and leasing spreads.
During the second quarter we executed 200 new deals for 900 000 square feet at a spread of 10.7%.
We also executed 226 renewals for 1.8 million square feet at a spread of 6.1% our highest renewal spread in 15 quarters.
Combined spreads were up 6.8% overall but more significantly up 8.3% on a pro rata basis.
Before diving deeper into what we're seeing in terms of retailer demand and growth strategies I want to point out the impact of the 46 assets acquired in the Blackstone joint venture on our leased rate for the second quarter and year end expectations.
Excluding the 46 assets that were acquired on June 20 we improved our leased rate to 94.1% as of the end of the second quarter a 40 basis point increase sequentially and a 110 basis point increase over second quarter 2011.
Including the 46 acquired assets the leased rate at the end of the second quarter was 93.7%.
Accordingly while we are still very comfortable with our previously guided leased rate for 2012 of over 94.5% absent the newly acquired Blackstone JV.
When included our annual expectation becomes approximately 94.1% due to the lower overall leased rate of that specific portfolio.
While the Blackstone JV portfolio puts short-term pressure on the overall leased rate the good news is the portfolio consists primarily of high-quality power centers that were previously undercapitalized.
As a result of the recapitalization of the venture we expect to realize the organic growth opportunity in this portfolio which will positively impact our numbers at the property level NOI and leasing fee line items going forward.
But regardless of the moving pieces leasing is strong occupancy continues to increase spreads are growing and our portfolio remains in very high demand.
Regardless of the speculation that near-term economic uncertainty may lead to a deceleration of store growth and so far that's all it is -- speculation.
The fact remains that quality retailers have strong financial positions and maintain aggressive open-to-buys.
Best-in-class retailers with strong brand recognition and competitive merchandising strategies will continue to grow market share through a variety of strategies including entering new markets developing new concepts and prototypes and acquiring other retailers.
Growing market share by entering new markets and expanding geographic presence is a traditional method of new store expansion.
We've already announced the successful launch of Anna's Linens and Shoe Carnival into Puerto Rico where they joined other domestic retailers such as PetSmart T.J.
Maxx and Burlington Coat Factory that have expanded on to the island in the past few years.
More recently we entered into 2 new deals with Dick's Sporting Goods as part of their first wave of stores in Salt Lake City.
We have facilitated Ross's entry into new markets with 2 of their initial stores in Chicago and 1 of their initial stores in St.
Louis with other opportunities in the pipeline.
Other examples of retailers looking to enter new markets include Publix expanding into Tennessee; Kirkland's to New Jersey; Trader Joe's to Colorado; and Walmart expanding their neighborhood market concept across the country.
While not market-specific Whole Foods has indicated they will absolutely need to enter new markets across the country to hit their growth projections and we are working very closely with them to help facilitate their strategy.
A timely example of a growing retailer entering new markets in an aggressive way is Five Below.
As the largest landlord to Five Below we have helped them enter several new markets and most recently completed 5 deals for their initial stores in Atlanta.
Notably 2 of these stores were created through small shops consolidation and the other 3 locations were the result of filling residuals base from downsized Old Navy Jo-Ann and Office Depot boxes at substantial rent gains.
The residual space resulting from these downsizings is 100% leased and we increased the rent per square foot by an average of 65%.
The initial results of the Five Below IPO highlight the confidence investors have in their business model and it should not be overlooked that every one of their 60-plus stores planned for 2013 will be in power centers.
Tilly's is another example of a retailer with a recent [Audio Gap] taking their concept nationwide with 45 new stores planned for 2013.
This action sports retailer has adapted its merchandise mix to one with nationally strong surf skate and motocross brands and they view power centers as their primary focus for new stores.
We recently facilitated their entry into the Columbus Ohio market and we have several more deals across the country in the pipeline.
Another dynamic we are seeing is traditional mall retailers particularly fashion retailers looking to grow in the power center format.
One example is Gap with their factory stores.
Our first factory store location recently opened in Boston in a downsized Old Navy.
And we're actively working with Gap on several other Gap and Banana Republic factory store locations.
Kirkland's is a retailer that made a strategic shift away from malls a few years ago and as a result we're up to 11 locations with them.
Lane Bryant Torrid Carter's Crazy 8 and Aeropostale are also example of traditional mall retailers expanding their store base in power centers and with whom we have completed recent deals.
Frequency of shopping trips and dramatically reduced occupancy costs which leads to superior operating margin are the 2 factors most often cited as the drivers behind the retailers' decision to focus on power centers.
In addition to entering new markets and in response to clear consumer preference many retailers are growing by developing new concepts or accelerating expansion of their loft [ph] priced brands.
An example of this is Bloomingdale's Outlet which we've recently worked with to facilitate their entry into the Chicago market.
Another concept which is growing aggressively is Nordstrom Rack whom we now have opened in 5 of our centers and recently finalized the sixth deal as we facilitate their entry into Columbus.
Other new concepts include Field &amp; Stream and True Runner by Dick's Sporting Goods Sports Editions [ph] by Hibbett Sports Steel [ph] by Save Stores [ph] and Forever 21's 20 000 square foot concept.
These new concepts are being introduced by established well-funded existing retailers with proven and successful track record that have spent significant capital to test these concepts know their customer and merchandise accordingly.
In a limited new supply and low cost of capital environment another growth avenue for retailers is through the acquisition of other retailers.
The recent acquisition of Cost Plus World Market by Bed Bath &amp; Beyond and Ascena's acquisition of Charming Shoppes are 2 great examples of strong credit quality retailers capitalizing on this opportunity.
Given that their previous unimpressive financial standing precluded them from being candidates for growth we had both Cost Plus and Charming Shoppes on our tenant watch list.
They represented a combined 70 basis points of our pro rata annual base rent.
But now with strong credit and proven merchants overseeing these operations we have removed them from our watch list as they have healthier overall balance sheets improved operational strategies and new and exciting expansion plans.
To that point we're in the process of finalizing 2 deals with Cost Plus as Bed Bath &amp; Beyond is clearly looking to take advantage of this concept's growth potential.
Both of these deals were previously on our hold list.
In summary successful retailers are not discouraged by macroeconomic news.
In fact many view volatility as an opportunity to propel growth and expand market share.
When you combine that desire for growth the financial strength of our key tenants the preference for power centers by the retailers' dominating market share gains the improving credit quality of cash flow in the vastly improved quality of our portfolio as endorsed by our leasing activity and overall tenant performance.
We are very excited about these trends.
Then adding the lack of new supply into the equation makes me very confident that we will continue to generate solid operational improvement for the foreseeable future.
And I'll now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $71.6 million or $0.25 per share for the second quarter slightly ahead of our plan.
Including nonoperating items FFO for the quarter was $6.5 million higher at $78.1 million or $0.27 per share.
Nonoperating items were primarily net gains resulting from our aggressive capital recycling program offset somewhat by losses related to repurchase of $34 million of our 9.625% notes due in 2016.
Operating FFO per share was 9% above 2011 clearly indicating that our operating performance is now flowing to the bottom line.
We were able to achieve attractive pricing on new debt which allowed us to accomplish a significant amount of refinancing that will positively impact our earnings and fixed charge coverage ratio in the coming quarters.
Perhaps most importantly the weighted average maturity of these new financings is 6.3 years and as a result our consolidated debt duration at June 30 was approximately 5 years the longest in the company's history and a significant improvement from 2.9 years at the end of 2009.
Subsequent to quarter end we issued $200 million of 6.5% redeemable Class J preferred shares to fund the redemption of the 7.5% Class I preferred shares.
The new shares are callable in 5 years and the annual fixed charge savings are $1.7 million.
Midway through the year we have substantially addressed all of our 2012 debt maturities.
Our $300 million bond offering in June funded the repayment of the $223 million of unsecured notes due in October and reduced borrowings on the line of credit.
In addition we addressed the majority of our 2012 unconsolidated debt maturities primarily through the 5-year refinancing for the 2 large debt facilities in our TIAA-CREF joint venture amounting to approximately $700 million.
Remaining 2012 consolidated debt maturities consists of $13 million of mortgage debt and our share of remaining unconsolidated maturities is $107 million.
We expect to refinance these loans at attractive terms and we also have about 80% capacity on our $815 million revolving credit facilities today.
Further DDR has no remaining unsecured consolidated debt maturities for nearly 3 years and has made considerable progress on refinancing 2013's secured maturities and adding prime assets to the unencumbered pool which we expect to finalize in the coming months.
Today we are absolutely prepared to withstand volatile capital markets.
In addition having less debt and longer-term -- and a longer-term more balanced debt profile our exposure to variable rate debt has declined considerably.
Variable rate debt as a percentage of total debt stood at 9% at the end of June compared to 29% at the end of 2009.
While we have made considerable progress in lowering the company's risk profile over the past 2.5 years we acknowledge that there's more work to do.
DDR remains absolutely committed to continuing to lower leverage and aggressively pursuing additional investment grade ratings.
The operating environment remains favorable to retail REITs of scale with high-quality operating platforms and combined with redevelopment initiatives coming online further monetization of our land bank and our above-average retention of free cash flow we project that our debt-to-EBITDA will continue to decline.
We continue to strengthen the quality of our portfolio with our sector-leading capital recycling program.
During the first half of the year proceeds from nonprime asset sales were $126 million and an additional $26 million of fully owned assets are currently under contract for sale.
Nonprime properties sold during the first half of 2012 have average trade area household incomes of $63 000 21% below DDR's prime portfolio and an average trade area population of 173 000 people 46% below DDR's prime portfolio.
Net proceeds from asset sales combined with common equity issued through our ATM program were used to fund the acquisitions of 3 very high-quality large-format prime power centers: Brookside Marketplace in Chicago Tanasbourne Town Center in Portland and the Arrowhead Crossing in Phoenix.
These properties have average lease rates of 95% average trade area household incomes of $81 000 and average trade area populations of over 500 000 people.
Further we believe that there are opportunities to leverage our operating platform to create incremental value at these assets each of which has been added to our large and growing unencumbered pool.
Subsequent to quarter end we acquired our partner's 50% ownership interest in Ahwatukee Foothills Towne Center a 675 000 square foot prime power center located in Phoenix Arizona.
DDR has managed this property for 15 years.
The shopping center is over 94% leased has average trade area household income of over $80 000 on average and average trade area population of over 500 000 people and is anchored by Sprouts AMC Ross PETCO and Jo-Ann.
We are also in the process of completing the acquisition of Tucson Spectrum a large-format prime shopping center in Tucson Arizona anchored by Target Home Depot Food City Ross Marshalls J.
C.
Penney Sports Authority and Bed Bath &amp; Beyond.
The combined purchase price of these acquisitions is $200 million and we expect to capitalize these transactions consistent with recent acquisitions as we deploy asset sales and equity raised earlier this year and further improve the size and quality of our unencumbered asset pool.
In reviewing the second quarter performance and looking forward it is important to recognize that our sale of nonprime assets and redeployment of capital in the prime centers is making our operations much more efficient and we believe these improvements are sustainable.
While the initial impact of portfolio improvements is expected to be higher rental growth it is also worth noting that nonrecoverable operating expenses decreased bad debt continues to decrease and recurring capital expenditures should decrease.
All of which improve our profitability and ability to grow net asset value.
With 2 quarters now in the books we are reiterating our 2012 operating FFO per share guidance of $1 to $1.04 which we raised in May.
However the components have changed as balance sheet improvement has accelerated which comes at a short-term cost despite the long-term benefit and the Brazilian currency has depreciated well beyond our original budget.
Importantly on the other hand internal growth has been stronger than expected and we now expect 2012 same-store NOI growth to be at least 3% up from the initial guidance of 2% to 3%.
The drop in the Brazilian real has hurt our FFO per share by about $0.005 in the first half of this year and we expect the impact to be about $0.01 for the full year.
Accelerated refinancings will also take another $0.005 from 2012 FFO per share.
Despite all of these changes we are pleased to reiterate FFO guidance and believe that our recent actions position us even more strongly for FFO and NAV growth in the future.
2012 will mark the first year of FFO per share growth in the past 5 years and we believe that we are well prepared to generate multiple years of FFO and more importantly EBITDA and NAV growth to come.
At this point I'll stop and turn the call back over to Dan for closing remarks.
Thank you David.
Before turning the call over to questions I'd like to thank those of you that have recently participated in our perception study.
It has been 2 years since we last surveyed the market for feedback on strategy and communications with investors and analysts and we greatly appreciate the candid feedback you provided us once again.
We listened to your comments from the past and many of those suggestions influenced our strategic plan which we are now executing.
We will certainly listen again and I'm confident your ideas will continue to help make us a better company going forward.
Your opinions are valued and your judgment of our company is not taken lightly.
At this point we'd be happy to turn the call over to questions operator.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Paul Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on the land bank and your kind of efforts to monetize that.
I mean could you just talk about any movements there and whether some of the improvements we've had in the housing market could bring some of these efforts either on your behalf or on third-party interest kind of back to life and what kind of pipeline we see for making progress there? Paul this is Paul.
We've been making progress.
Year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter we've clearly seen some progress in our land bank and if you look in the supp [ph] even with the Belgate acquisition we're going to be net sellers of land for 2012.
And we are looking at everything with deals we're making whether it's with department stores for pads or parts of a parcel or for residential we look at all of that.
But we are seeing some progress and we'll continue to see some progress.
And that is what's reflected in the number you see in the supplement.
We're going to be net sellers of land even with an acquisition in 2012.
Yes.
Although the frustrating part last year was we were talking a lot about our goal of making progress on land sales but you were seeing very little of it show up in the transactional results and you were seeing even less of it show up in the income statement and I think this year you're certainly seeing more of that flow through.
There's a conscious effort internally to focus on these nonproducing asset sales.
And you've seen more of that come through which importantly not only generates the proceeds that can be used to reduce debt or reinvest in operating assets but also as you might have noticed in the operating expenses this quarter we also -- since we're not capitalizing expenses on most of that land you also see the improvement in operating expenses they come through when we sell this land.
So it has been a major focus.
You're starting to see more of it show-up and will see even more of that in coming quarters.
To your specific point on is the housing market having a significant impact there we're not necessarily seeing the single-family housing market have any direct impact there.
But multifamily as you know well has continued to be extremely hot for new development and there are some parcels of land where we would look at a higher and better use being non-retail.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> David just going to the balance sheet for a second.
You guys bought back your high coupon debt this quarter paying a premium.
I think in previous conversations you've said that tendering and then reissuing that some of your other peers have done you weren't as interested in.
But given your activity year-to-date of paying a premium to buy back the 9.625s would you consider just tendering for the whole thing reissuing a new lower coupon especially given the demand for corporate debt these days? Yes we certainly consider everything in terms of balance sheet improvement and improving net fixed charge coverage ratio.
I think what it comes down to for us is does the economics of it make sense.
Obviously the premium that we're paying for the 2016 notes or any of our other paper is really just prepaying that future interest.
And while you can show a charge 1 quarter and a better run rate going forward the reality is oftentimes in these tender reissue scenarios we haven't believed that there is a true economic benefit.
For our open market repurchases happening dramatically inside of a make whole sort of price we were generating a current yield on those purchases in the high-7s but more importantly a yield to maturity in the mid- to high-3s for the most part when we could issue longer duration debt that a yield to maturity as we did earlier this year through the term loan in the low- to mid-3s.
So I think for us it was a focus on economically is there a benefit to tender or to repurchase and reissue and we came away even though you could do it in smaller volumes.
But the open market repurchase and reissue had an economic benefit to us where the tender could have created a better run rate but only at the expense of all the prepaid interest we'd have to put up and the significantly greater premium that we'd have to pay for a tender and so economically we didn't think that makes sense for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a question in the prepared remarks you mentioned that the distress in the supermarket business and you mentioned SUPERVALU will benefit the prime portfolio in the long run.
Can you just elaborate a little bit on that? Well there's clearly a secular shift on where people are buying food.
And the traditional grocer which has often -- it was the opinion of many was often invincible to competition because everyone had to eat has proven to be very vulnerable to new trends new retailers better merchandising and better formats.
So while it is true that everyone does have to eat and everyone has to purchase food they don't have to do it at a traditional grocer.
And if you look at where the sales are going -- and it's right across the board.
It's the formats that I mentioned but it's also formats like dollar stores.
Because they sell a lot of boxed goods and a lot of dried goods that are competing directly with traditional grocers as well.
So we feel that the traditional grocer as it sits today is less dominant than it's been; specialty grocers Cost Plus -- I mean I'm sorry Costco and Sam's and warehouse clubs and supercenters and Target et cetera are all grabbing market share.
As you know Walmart today is the largest grocer in the United States and it wasn't not too long ago.
So there's clearly a shift away from traditional grocers and going to alternative uses and those are the alternative uses that populate our shopping centers.
And for that reason we feel that it will benefit us in the long run.
Our next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When I look at the noncomparable leases on Page 32 and as part of your new leases budget you do about twice as many noncomparable as comparable leases but unfortunately of course we don't have anything when it comes to a re-leasing spread.
Can you give us a sense of what those leases are in terms of the type of tenant you're able to attract for the boxes and the kind of quality of the properties that are included in here? Yes Cedrik as we've talked about before we do this count in the most conservative manner possible which is that 1-year look if you've been vacant for more than a year it's not going to be in the calculation.
But there are going to be other reasons that deals are not in the comp pool whether it's a different type of deal a consolidation of space for example would not be an accurate way to measure a spread.
The -- you've got a significant portion of the vacancy in that category of space vacant more than a year.
Then it involves varying qualities.
If we look in fact one of the things we get because this is a question which comes up quite often.
Look at if we included all of the deals in this calculation again it was obvious that we had a very strong new deals spread for this quarter.
It would have been up over 32% which obviously is not a true judge of market conditions and something we're not going to do.
But there's space in there that's never been leased it's first generation space the space that we acquired in some centers which had never been occupied since we'd owned it.
So it's a tremendous mix of space but for obvious reasons we're not going to include it.
Another thing that I think is important we should look at that spread cap as you know we're using the last rent versus the first rent.
There's no straight-lining on our spreads.
And again that's a very very conservative manner and way to look at the leasing spreads overall.
Final thing I'd add is we keep coming back to -- if you want to understand where trends are and what's happening with the market look at the renewal spread.
And as I said in my prepared remarks we have the largest renewal spread in 15 quarters.
That is a very very big deal and that's what we're seeing happening and that's also with the last rent first rent no straight-lining of that activity.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Truxillo Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> You guys have obviously made some good progress in reducing debt on your balance sheet and also lowering the cost of the capital.
Can you provide any comments on what you think that your run rate fixed charge coverage is right now given all the changes? And kind of where you see that going over the next 2 quarters with the EBITDA growth that you have baked into your guidance? Yes it's a great question Tom because especially the way the proceeds from forward equity offering hits in very late June.
We had the fixed charge impact of debt but you didn't have the excess equity proceeds beyond the Blackstone investment show up.
So I do think there's additional improvement built in.
Obviously the refinancing of the preferred equity leads to additional improvement and so I think from a fixed charge perspective a ratio that bottomed 2 years ago or 1.5 years ago in the high-1.6s to 1.7 area is up just north a little north of 1.8x today and I think we see a very visible path this year to get to 1.9 and in 2013 to get north of 2x which we think is an important metric.
It doesn't represent the end game.
It doesn't mean that once we get to 2x that the progress stops but I do think we see a very credible path from the 1.8 reported this quarter pro forma that's for a few transactions get to 1.9 and then get to 2x next year.
And so I think you'll continue to see progress on that metric.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And you guys -- part of the plan was to use some free cash flow to pay down debt.
You've since increased the dividend a couple of times.
Any comments on use of free cash flow that you generate now if you can increase the dividend again to kind of soak up some of that? Or if you see further opportunities to delever -- I know you don't have unsecured maturities coming due but you do have some security you can always buy back like you have been.
Yes we -- despite the increased dividend we still got by far I think the lowest payout ratio in the sector and therefore the highest free cash flow it's being retained in the sector.
And one way or another every one of those dollars is going to improving our debt-to-EBITDA ratios.
So a few years ago you were seeing more of that go purely to debt paydown.
Today you're seeing some of that going to redevelopment spending or the acquisition of operating assets.
So today you're seeing probably more of it going to the creation of new recurring growing and sustainable EBITDA rather than simply debt reduction.
As exactly as you point out there is less debt to be reduced.
And so you're seeing that free cash flow be redirected more often now to EBITDA increases and I think you're going to see that show up in a more significant way in our results over the coming quarters.
Our next question comes from Craig Schmidt Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I hope you haven't been already touched on but what do you think the volume of dispositions could be in the second half relative to what you were able to accomplish in the first half? This year somewhat the same as last year.
We took advantage of a market in the first half of the year that was stronger than expected.
Last year that paid off as it positioned us to not have to push on dispositions during an uncertain second half of the year.
Second half of the year for 2012 also looking a little less certain although we certainly haven't had any impact directly on transaction pricing.
But I do think you saw us accelerate a few more dispositions to the first half of the year.
It doesn't at all mean if we see the market hold up like this that you'll see us slow that math process down.
We'll continue to push.
The improvement in portfolio quality is a massive continued focus for us.
I think today you're seeing a few more opportunities for us to redeploy that into the acquisition of new prime centers.
And so we're not scared to beat guidance on dispositions.
And so you could see another $100 million or so of dispositions hit in the second half of the year.
They get redeployed in some of the high-quality acquisitions we've already identified or talked about.
And we've already been sitting down to have meetings about 2013 how can we continue to sell nonprime assets and improve the portfolio quality.
We're not stopping at that 90% prime metric.
We want to continue to upgrade the portfolio quality and best position ourselves to own a portfolio.
We can grow NAV [ph] the most overtime.
One of the things that's also important about the dispositions Craig which inspires us to move forward with the program aggressively is we really saw this year at RECon the impact of the portfolio improvement which is simply spending less time with retailers talking about bad assets and bad space and more time with retailers talking about prime assets and prime space.
And that has brought a lot of creativity as you could see from the deal flow and the leasing spreads.
It's improved our metrics.
Our bad debt is down as Dave mentioned in his script.
Our operating margins are wider.
It's just a -- it's a better business model today and a lot of that has to do with the fact that we have been a significant capital recycler.
In addition there are those tenants out there while we're not overly public about naming them specifically there are those tenants out there that we are actively looking to reduce our exposure to.
And we feel very comfortable that we're doing that for a good reason.
As a result as interest in certain asset with certain tenants surfaces even though the asset may not be at the very top of our sale list we certainly are considering it due to our desire to limit exposure to what we feel are tough credit tenants and our overall desire to improve the credit quality of our cash flows.
Our next question comes from Quentin Velleley Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just in the second half projections on the $403 million of ground-up development on hold the negative $69 million can you talk us through that? And then secondly the growth impairments and not your share I think there was about a total of $25 million of impairments on the land can you also just talk us through what that was? The -- Quentin starting with the -- what's reflected in that $66 million reduction back half those are deals by the way not included obviously the back half deals.
But negotiations whether they are for outright sales of an entire parcel or with anchor stores for pads on sites.
But I'm not in a position to give you the exact specifics but that's obviously stuff we have in our budget because these deals are well underway.
Yes.
As we've talked about before the gestation period on these land sale was always longer and so you've heard us talk about the progress there for a while.
I think to see it show up in our budget for the second half of the year means we've got a much higher level of confidence with these longer processes.
And longer due diligence periods are getting to a point where we should be able to execute on those and then show you that progress over the second half of the year even if those transactions take longer than a normal asset sale.
We're getting closer to the period where we should be able to show you that.
It's also as you referenced the tie-in to some of the impairments on the land there have been some situations either due to lack of entitlement progress or lack of progress with the municipality or just the fact that we are revisiting some of our assumptions on what would be possible on some of these land sites and revisiting our thought process and where that capital can be better deployed.
We have taken some impairments as we've lowered the probability that we do develop several of these sites and increasing instantly the probability that we sell them.
And so your accounting -- your impairment tax changes at that time to put a greater emphasis on liquidation price rather than on discounted value of future cash flows.
And so that has triggered a few impairments there.
Some of which the largest I think for this quarter was a site that we got in the Inland transaction and a few others were sites that we'd -- that we have acquired through other transactions.
And so I think you see a bit of that but it's only a precursor to the progress that we're making in monetizing that just an indication that that immediate or near-term liquidation price is less than what GAAP requires you to do in terms of valuing the asset on the - on discounted future cash flows and an assumption that you're going to develop the site.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Donnelly Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> A few of my questions have been answered but I was curious for your take on direction of cap rates on A versus B assets because I think there's something of a split view among your peers in terms of which segment just may be seeing greater relative improvement in the last quarter or so.
What's your sense there? And I guess as a follow-up from this point forward do you think the fundamentals for NOI growth and valuation growth favor A versus B? We're seeing improvement across the board and in pricing.
I think you still haven't seen a massive increase in transactional volume but you have seen more and more transparency that would indicate that the pricing has moved higher cap rates have moved to lower.
Across the board you get some incredible prints on coastal Class A centers and high-quality supply constrained markets going well below 6% cap rates at this point when those used to be low 6s deals.
But on the other side you're also seeing B assets that have been in the high-7s now in the low-7s or even at 7.
The toughest of the Class B assets has seen less progress but like you've seen improvement across the board in an environment where I think NOI growth is more credible.
Debt is cheap although not as available at sort of peak pricing periods in the past with a less reliable CMBS market today.
But with cheap dept out there as long as you're going to be sub-60% leverage I think that supports pricing across all property types.
When we look at where we see the greatest opportunity the strongest unlevered IRRs on a go-forward basis I do think it is going to be for the most part in the non-coastal Class A assets.
So we believe that the premium being paid for some of the sub-6 transactions it's hard to justify in rent growth over the coming years versus the opportunity for us particularly in some of the partner transactions where we think we've gotten somewhat better than market pricing.
For us to start out at a 7% cap rate and have extremely credible 2% to 3% if not higher growth and higher in some cases where there is a value-add component but we think the visibility of a very attractive IRR is the greatest there when looking at those Class A assets but not necessarily the trophy-caliber top 4 or 5 market and that's where you've seen us put capital out and I think it's safe to assume that if those top 20 to 40 markets where you'll continue to see us more likely to see opportunities because those opportunities are driven by the highest IRRs that we think are achievable.
I think it's also very important Jeff that when you look at NOI growth and cash flows you look at them on a risk-adjusted basis there are clearly opportunities in B and C assets where you can get significant NOI growth and value-add returns.
But at the same time the stability of that cash flow is somewhat weak.
The depth in the market it could be a little shaky and if you're a long-term holder that's a very different proposition than if you're a short-terms flipper.
And because we are a long-term holder we do feel that the NOI growth on a risk-adjusted basis and the operating fundamentals and A assets will exceed that of Bs and Cs on a risk-adjusted basis.
Our your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Paul you mentioned that some of the deals you have with a couple of retailers were on hold for various reasons.
And I was wondering is there any of that going on in the electronics with hhgregg or RadioShack and how do you guys feel about those 2 retailers in particular at this point? Very differently by the way between RadioShack and hhgregg Rich but yes clearly this is something we study and you and I have talked about this.
We are constantly watching all of our tenants and performance and categories.
And obviously when I was alluding to Cost Plus World Market as an example.
We were not in a position whether they wanted a site or a new site or an existing asset.
We were not going to make a deal given their current situation.
Big change obviously with the Bed Bath &amp; Beyond acquisition.
We are in no hurry to make additional deals with an hhgregg right now.
We talk to them all the time.
We've made a number of deals over the last few years.
We don't view them as any kind of immediate risk but it is a category we will watch obviously as we do with Best Buy.
RadioShack is a much different story and RadioShack I'm glad you brought it up.
And if something -- we've been watching these guys for a few years.
I mean we've continued to reduce in a very small way our exposure to RadioShack and if something should happen more dramatic with RadioShack in the near future we will not be unprepared on any of the locations.
One of the interesting things is somewhere in the 40% range of our exposure on a pro rata basis is in Puerto Rico.
And these locations absolutely cream their average sales per square foot of their domestic portfolio.
So should there be stores to close I'm quite confident those will be the last to close and should they all close at some point in time we are ready to release those debt as significant increases.
So you look at a company like RadioShack they have got to figure out themselves because there is no way we would do a new deal with them today.
And in fact we would go the other way and we are prepared to replace where necessary.
You have a follow-up from the line of Alex Goldfarb Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Dan just going to sales tax the online sales tax discussion on your peer's call ahead of you guys just curious your take if there is implemented a -- that online retailers are going to have to pay sales tax.
Just your thoughts for the smaller fledgling retailers sort of the next Charlotte Hobbs [ph] or next L.L.Bean-type retailers do you think this could curtail their growth if they are now burdened with having to collect sales tax from all the various jurisdictions? Or you think it's pretty manageable for small up-and-coming retailers? I think it's very manageable for small up-and-coming retailers and part of the analysis that has been done over time Alex is to survey a number of those folks through the various entities that are lobbying for a Main Street Fairness Act to see what the actual impact would be.
And it's not something that most retailers regardless of size can't handle.
It's something that has been consistently reviewed and I really don't think that the impact would be that great.
We have made great progress with Main Street Fairness and we do expect something to happen in that regard hopefully in the lame-duck session if not shortly thereafter.
And I think all retailers today regardless of whether they are Internet-based or bricks and mortar-based or omni-channel based which we hope most retailers are at this point in time are prepared for that.
This is not going to be a surprise.
This has been a long protracted discussion and a long protracted battle and anyone who quite frankly isn't prepared to deal with the eventuality of a fairness tax which is what this is a fairness -- a leveling of the playing field if you will.
If you're not prepared for that you're really not paying attention to your business and you probably have bigger problems.
So my feeling is that I don't think that this will catch anyone by surprise.
I think people are well-prepared and I don't think it will have really a negative impact on retailers at any level.
Our next question comes from Steve Sakwa ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Dan I was wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit about Amazon.
Obviously kind of relating to the last question they are not willing to start collecting sales tax but they're clearly building a lot more DCs across the country at least that sort of seems to be their plan and maybe eventually moving kind of broad-based to kind of same-day delivery.
And I'm just wondering how you sort of think about the proposition that they're offering the customer.
Obviously people have to start paying tax but they've now got convenience [ph] and how do you think that changes the landscape over the next decade? Well it's a great question Steve and I've great respect for Amazon.
I'm not quite sure why they're valued where they're valued and I'm not quite sure why they're not obligated to make money like every other retailer is.
And I think if they're held by this -- to the same standard as most every other retailer out there obviously people would be looking at them very differently.
They would probably be on some sort of watch list quite frankly if you're looking at a less than 1% operating margin on sales of their size.
I fully understand the need to invest in the future and I fully understand the need for their CapEx which is obviously as you referenced growing at a pretty dramatic rate.
I get it.
And I understand that they're building for the future but at a company that does over $60 billion in sales my question is when is the future? If the future is -- was the future at -- is it at $100 billion was it at $20 billion? Was -- is it $60 billion? So I think at some point in time Amazon -- the model has to show that it can make money and it hasn't done that yet.
If you listened to their call last week they kind of downplayed the same-day delivery notion a little bit.
It got played out much more in the press than it did on their call and I think -- I thought that was pretty surprising because that was something that everyone views as minimizing what's the competitive advantage for bricks and mortar which is that you can pick things up and having some gratification Amazon really can't provide you with that instant gratification.
So I -- Amazon it's an interesting case study.
I think it gets a lot more attention than quite frankly it probably deserves.
I think at some point in time they'll be held but to the same standards as the rest of the retail.
And when they're held to the same standards as the rest of retail I think there's a real question whether the model works from a profitability standpoint.
And while they continue to invest enormous sums of money in their business and I think to grow market share and I think that's a smart thing for them to do I think that investment on the capital side is masking the fact that operating margin is beyond thin.
And that's something that ultimately they're going to have to answer to and I'm not so sure the model can answer to it as its currently constructed.
.
And there are no further questions.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to management.
Thank you all very much for joining us and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2012 DDR Corp.'s Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Andrew and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Samir Khanal Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from President and CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and Chief Financial Officer David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 as filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Samir and good morning everyone.
Our third quarter results highlight the continuation and execution of our strategic plan and the operational benefits of our investment and portfolio pieces.
As you've heard me mention before the great thing about our business is that we don't have to guess about who's winning or losing the attention of the consumer.
As a result we are not surprised that our retailers continue to gain market share expand margins and aggressively seek new store opportunities all of which continue to benefit our portfolio operations.
Consistent with the various reports that have recently been published regarding the retail sector in general and power center tenants specifically the vast majority of our retailers continue to experience market share gains in general merchandise apparel domestics and grocery sales.
While there are certainly some structural issues that persist for specific retailers overall demand for space far outstrips supply and as a result we continue to see lease rate gains and strong same-store NOI growth across our portfolio.
While we are pleased to benefit from the continued strong performance of our assets cap rates have yet to reflect the stability and credit quality of cash flows commensurate with prime power centers.
Recently this has created a unique opportunity for us to accelerate our acquisitions activity while sourcing off-market transactions with a variety of our joint venture partners.
This effort has allowed us to achieve pricing that is 25 to 50 basis points wide of the already mispriced market cap rates while prudently financing to continue our deleveraging efforts.
Not only does this further simplify our story by reducing our number of joint venture partners it gives us access to a proprietary pipeline of low risk acquisitions that are not broadly marketed.
As you read in our third quarter transactions' press release we were a net buyer during the quarter and we expect to be a net buyer going forward particularly during this period of asset mispricing.
In the long term we all know that markets are efficient.
However no different than many of you whose job it is to identify market inefficiencies in the near term we are taking advantage of such opportunities that currently exist.
In addition to our ability to source off-market transactions at attractive pricing our recent upgrade to investment-grade from S&amp;P in the reiteration of our investment grade status coupled with an outlook upgrade from Moody's has allowed us to be more competitive from a cost of capital perspective.
Since the upgrade from S&amp;P in mid-September our bond spreads on tenured paper have tightened by approximately 100 basis points.
Our dramatically-reduced cost of capital has further enhanced our ability to make prudent investments on behalf of our shareholders and we expect this trend to continue.
We will also continue to actively execute our capital recycling program manage our balance sheet pursue additional positive feedback from the rating agency community and prudently pursue broad access to all forms of capital.
We are pleased with the progress we have made improving our overall cost of capital and the opportunities it has created to pursue attractive investments.
We are cognizant of the fact however that the market is too smart to let the current condition of asset mispricing to persist.
Asset pricing efficiency is sure to return to the marketplace as private and public market investors realize that long-term operating results in the high-quality power center space represents an extremely attractive investment opportunity on a relative and absolute basis.
As a result we expect further cap rate compression going forward enhanced value creation and NAV growth further supporting our desire to continue advancing our strategic direction.
At this point I would like to turn the call over to Paul.
Thank you Dan.
I'd like to spend some time today discussing the leasing environment and our expectations for holiday sales.
But first I will briefly address the quarterly results.
As evidenced by another quarter of strong leasing volume we continue to see robust demand and increasing competition for quality space resulting in positive trends in both occupancy and leasing spreads.
In the third quarter we executed 230 new deals for 1.2 million square feet.
This was the second highest level of quarterly leasing volume by square footage in company history and it was achieved with a new deal spread of 9.8%.
We also executed 286 renewals for 1.7 million square feet at a spread of 6.5% our highest renewal spread in 16 quarters.
Combined we leased 2.9 million square feet during the quarter which brings us to 8.9 million square feet year-to-date and over 42 million square feet leased in the past 15 quarters.
Combined spreads for the quarter were positive 7.0% representing the 10th consecutive quarter of positive leasing spreads.
As a result of these achievements our lease rate is now 94.0% up 30 basis points over the second quarter.
These strong results have been supported in large part by the dramatic shift in the supply and demand dynamic as today's most successful retailers seek new store growth opportunities and favor the high-quality power center format which offers the most sought after co-tenancy greatest access and visibility and dramatically-lower operating expenses.
We are not surprised by this growing trend and we expect this dynamic to continue supporting consistently strong operating metrics for the foreseeable future.
Our top 40 tenants alone are on track to open 77 million square feet of new stores in 2012 and project to open another 82 million square feet per year in 2013 and 2014.
In addition to the continued demand from anchor and junior anchor retailers there's equally strong demand for smaller space from retailers such as Ulta Five Below Tilly's Carter's Shoe Carnival Anna's Linens and Kirkland's.
These retailers are looking to aggressively open new stores and represent great candidates for small shop consolidation as well as ideal users of residual space from big-box downsizings in the 5 000 to 10 000 square-foot range.
Furthermore several traditional department store chains are continuing to aggressively expand their off-price divisions by opening new stores in our power centers specifically Nordstrom Rack Saks Off 5th and Bloomingdale's Outlet.
Fortunately our assets are in high demand by these retailers and we continue to source opportunities for these growing companies.
With only 16 million square feet or less than 1% of existing inventory of opening at retail expected to be delivered in 2013 demand for space is far outpacing supply.
As a result and despite having already achieved significant improvement in our lease rate we are not done leasing up the portfolio.
We see continued future growth from the combination of leasing the existent vacant boxes to releasing the boxes that we were actively trying to recapture from underperforming weaker credit tenants the vacancy from recent acquisitions and creative in-line leasing through small shop consolidation downsizings and our extremely successful Set Up Shop program.
A specific example of maximizing a recent acquisition by leveraging our operating platform is Brookside Marketplace in Tinley Park Illinois a suburb of Chicago.
This asset was acquired in the first quarter of this year and is anchored by Target Kohl's Dick's Sporting Goods HomeGoods PetSmart and Ulta also.
In just 7 months we have improved not only the merchandise mix but also increased occupancy and NOI.
We executed a new lease with Ross Dress for Less on a previously undeveloped parcel and are in final negotiations with a national credit retailer to consolidate a chronically-vacant small shop wing into a junior anchor box.
The addition of these 2 junior anchors combined with the lease-up of 2 of the previously undeveloped outparcels will further position this asset as the dominant power center in the market.
Once complete we will have added to the rent roll over 50 000 square feet of new rent paying GLA improved the lease rate from 90% to 99% increase NOI by 40% reduced exposure to small shop space by 10% and most importantly we will have improved our yield by 110 basis points over the acquisition cap rate to nearly 8%.
Another example of creating value in a recent acquisition is Ahwatukee Foothills in Phoenix Arizona a center we acquired from a joint venture partner in the third quarter.
This power center features anchor tenants such as Ross Dress for Less PETCO Jo-Ann Babies "R" Us AMC Theatres and Old Navy.
Here we relocated and downsized Roomstore furniture achieving a 50% positive comp on the new space.
We split Roomstore's former box and provided a new location for Sprouts Farmers Market adding a specialty grocery component to the power center driving additional daily foot traffic and adding value to the surrounding units.
We are finalizing a lease for the remaining portion of the former Roomstore box to accommodate a national junior anchor.
Combined this new activity will increase NOI by 15% improve occupancy from 90% to 95% and improve our acquisition by 60 basis points to over 7.5%.
Another opportunity for additional future growth is through downsizings.
For example at Easton Market in Columbus Ohio a 500 000 square-foot power center we recently completed the downsizing of a former Kittle's Furniture box and provided Nordstrom Rack with its first store in the Columbus market.
Additionally in the residual space we signed leases with Tilly's for its first store in the Columbus market and Carter's as they expand their presence in Columbus.
With the ability to mark this space to market we improved the rent per square foot by 80% on Nordstrom Rack space 150% on Tilly's space and 170% on the Carter's space.
Clearly the ability to grow through downsizing is impactful and we're pursuing these opportunities with several of our oversized tenants.
Overall we see numerous similar opportunities across our portfolio today and expect to uncover additional growth initiatives as we work with retailers to creatively meet their open to buys.
We are also growing through small shop consolidation.
Over the past 11 quarters we have consolidated 400 previously-vacant small shop units into 116 mid-box spaces representing 1.2 million square feet at an average rent of $14 per foot and highlighting the continued strong demand from retailers in the 5 000 to 10 000 square-foot range.
Over the same time frame we've increased our leased rate for units less than 5 000 square feet from 80% to 84.5% and have reduced our exposure to these units from 19% to 16.4% of total GLA.
We will continue to increase the lease rate of our small shop space with a long-term occupancy goal of over 90% while continuing to reduce exposure to the same category given its nature of lower credit quality tenants and higher unpredictable turnovers.
Overall the combination of maximizing acquisitions with the value-add leasing in the vacancy we are buying or creating consolidating small shops and aggressively pursuing downsizings will lead to continued growth across our portfolio.
Before I turn the call over to David I want to quickly remind everyone what we should watch for as we head into the holiday sales season.
Volatile headlines may suggest a slowing economy due to the uncertainty created by the election variable gas prices conditions in Europe or fluctuating consumer sentiment.
However it is important to remember that successful retailers continue to perform in the face of these headwinds and retailers are planning their holiday selling season accordingly.
What we do know is that the retailers who carry the right merchandise at the right price at the right time will undoubtedly thrive during the holiday sales season.
And when it comes to margins nothing is more important than controlling inventory levels and well-managed inventory levels will be the theme again this year.
Other positives this year include 2 extra shopping days a cooler selling season improving the prospects for winter goods and a continued consumer shift to value and convenience.
We will be very focused on the timing and percentages offered for holiday markdowns which often tell the story in advance of official results.
And I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $83 million or $0.27 per share for the third quarter slightly ahead of our projections and 12.5% above last year.
Including non-operating items FFO for the quarter was $30 million higher to $113 million or $0.37 per share.
Nonoperating items were primarily gains resulting from the acquisition of our joint venture partners interest offset partially by a write-off of issuance costs associated with the redemption of our Class I Preferred Shares in August.
We are very pleased to report another quarter of significant progress improving the quality of our balance sheet portfolio and our long-term growth prospects driven largely by the acquisition of high-quality attractively priced and financed prime power centers.
As we have said throughout the year and Dan just previously mentioned we've reached the current market for power centers represents a unique acquisition opportunity and we have and we'll continue to take advantage of that dynamic without compromising our investment discipline.
During the quarter we acquired 3 prime power centers for $250 million and year-to-date we have invested more than $600 million in primarily off-market purchases of prime power centers.
As the majority of these investments represent recapitalizations of legacy joint ventures and purchases of partners interest in shopping centers that we have leased and managed for many years we have mitigated risk and are confident in our continued opportunity to leverage our operating platform to improve initial yields consistent with the case studies cited by Paul.
We have continued to fund our growth initiatives in a manner that lowers leverage and risk and improves our long-term cost of capital.
Investments during the year were funded with proceeds from asset sales and the issuance of $435 million of new common equity.
Financed funding investments with equity we have grown our portfolio of unencumbered assets considerably.
During the year we've added 8 prime power centers comprised of 3.4 million square feet of GLA for the unencumbered asset pool.
And today this pool of assets is conservatively valued at $5.2 billion a significant increase from the $4.3 billion at the end of 2010.
In early October we renewed our aftermarket common equity program which provides us flexibility to issue up to $200 million of additional equity to fund growth initiatives going forward.
We don't take equity issuance lightly but we want to have an ATM program in place so that we can efficiently fund investments and further improve the balance sheet when we find opportunities.
We have been very active in the capital markets in 2012 and we're pleased with our ability to access numerous forms of capital during the year which has continued to extend our duration and lower our fixed charges.
In addition to our equity funded investments during the quarter we issued $200 million of 6.5% perpetual preferred equity and used the proceeds to redeem our 7.5% preferred shares.
We have also taken advantage of attractively priced long-term debt raising $650 million of unsecured debt and $1.2 billion of secured debt including our partner's share.
These 2012 financings have a weighted average maturity of 6.2 years and a weighted average interest rate of 4% and this capital was largely used to retire debt with a weighted average interest rate of 5.1%.
Last we were successful in accessing private equity capital during the year closing the new $1.4 billion joint venture with Blackstone in January.
Looking at future capital needs we have very little near-term debt maturing.
There are no remaining consolidated maturities in 2012 and no unsecured maturities until May of 2015.
Debt maturities in 2013 of approximately $390 million consists of secured mortgages the majority of which is a $350 million loan secured by 6 properties.
We recently received approval for a 7-year $265 million mortgage from a life insurance company secured by 4 assets with interest fixed at less than 4% to refinance 75% of this loan.
The balance will be funded by drawing on the $100 million accordion commitment of our 7-year unsecured term loan which will further expand our unencumbered asset pool increase our fixed charge coverage ratio lower our percentage of secured debt and further extend our debt duration.
In recognition of our considerable progress in the recent years recycling capital meaningfully improving the quality of our portfolio lowering leverage and increasing size of our unencumbered asset pool combined stronger-than-expected operating results Standard &amp; Poor's upgraded our bond ratings to BBB- in September.
And just last week Moody's upgraded our credit rating outlook to positive on their current Baa3 rating.
Although we are by no means done improving our balance sheet and lowering our cost of capital the recent progress with the rating agencies represents a meaningful acknowledgment of how much we have accomplished financially and operationally lower our risk profile.
DDR bonds are now investment grade rated by both S&amp;P and Moody's and we expect further improvement in EBITDA as well as the continued monetization of non-income producing assets to further improve our credit metrics and lower our cost of capital.
The more than $600 million of capital that we have invested during the year has funded the acquisitions of large format prime power centers and enhanced the quality of our portfolio and expand our presence in major MSAs such as Chicago Portland and Boston Dallas and Phoenix.
We have also improved the quality of our portfolio through dispositions.
And while we were net acquirers in the first 9 months of the year we are not finished pruning non-prime assets.
Through the first 9 months of the year we disposed of $137 million of non-prime assets.
And in early October we closed the $113 million sale of a 750 000 square-foot primarily lifestyle center owned in a joint venture.
We will continue to review the portfolio regularly to identify disposition candidates and currently have $164 million of assets under contract for sale.
During the year we have disposed of $46 million of non-income producing assets a significant increase from the $30 million of dispositions in the same period in 2011.
As you likely noticed from our press release our 2012 guidance remains $1 to $1.04 per share of operating FFO consistent with the first half of the year stronger-than-expected domestic performance continued in the third quarter and offset the considerable negative impact of a lower-than-expected Brazilian currency that has lowered FFO nearly $4 million year-to-date relative to last year.
We remain focused on growing EBITDA and NAV further improving our portfolio quality while lowering our leverage and risk all of which are translating to results that drive growth in FFO dividends and total returns over time.
With respect to 2013 we are in the process of finalizing our plans and expect to release guidance and significant assumptions underlying our expectations middle of January as we have in the past.
That said we are optimistic about our prospects for 2013 and expect solid earnings growth combined with the potential for strong relative growth in the dividend to generate an attractive total return in the coming years.
At this point I'll stop and turn the call over to the operator and we will begin addressing your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Craig Schmidt Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Your recent acquisitions have included some of the larger power centers in the country.
And given that you already own some midsized and very large power centers I wondered if you could outline the opportunities and challenges of these sort of ubersized power centers relative to sort of more midsized product.
Well Craig we're in a position right now where we really do feel that size matters.
We like larger centers for a number of reasons.
Number one they offer great co-tenancy variety to whatever retailers may be interested in occupying vacant space so there's a very diverse merchandise mix that we can offer to the consumer.
And probably most importantly we are definitely in an era of retail fluctuation.
And retail is evolving and flexibility is incredibly important.
And we like the fact that the large power centers aren't sitting on a 12-acre site -- and I'd much rather have a 60-acre site today where we have the flexibility to move buildings add buildings expand buildings take buildings down and whatever it may take to accommodate the evolution of the retail environment.
So the large power centers are attractive to us.
Tenant demand for those centers is extraordinarily high.
Co-tenancy is absolutely a high priority for retailers today and they give us maximum flexibility.
So as a result we will continue to pursue those centers.
The medium-sized power centers that we have offer a similar opportunity but just slightly less flexibility.
And given the current environment we obviously like having that flexibility in our back pocket.
Craig I think it's also worth pointing out that as we look at any acquisition regardless of the size of the power center we're seeing opportunity.
I think the examples I cited in the script were great examples of that where we're confident we are seeing something that maybe others aren't in terms of upside.
And I think it's just a less competitive acquisition environment.
While there's tons of capital out there across-the-board you just look at the transactional activity even just of the public companies let alone digging into the data of all the private companies and the volume of transactions and the competition that I think you're seeing for some of the smaller format centers in addition to the fundamental opportunity that Dan and Paul outlined we think this allowed us to achieve better pricing on some of the larger format centers in addition to having better growth profiles over time.
Your next question comes from Alex Goldfarb Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just -- you mentioned some outlets or outlet concepts that are opening up and touring your assets recently it sounds like there's more demand from some of these outlet concepts to open up at your centers.
Do you think that this cannibalizes the overall outlet market the sales for outlets or you think this will expand the pie? I think it expands the pie a little bit Alex.
I'll let Paul comment in a second but I think it expands the pie.
I think the outlet business is while it's an important and growing part of the retail environment in our country it's still relatively small.
I think you'll be -- you won't be surprised when a lot of the centers that are currently proposed don't get built.
I think they'll be far less built than is currently on the table.
And as a result these tenants like Gap and Saks Off 5th and Blooming's Outlet and Nordstrom Rack et cetera need growth opportunities.
And the spend structure of our asset class and going back to Craig's question about size and opportunity and flexibility gives them the ability to open new stores and satisfy their open to buys without relying on what could be somewhat questionable development projects that may or may not be delivered at any given time.
So I think there's plenty of room for growth.
I think that it's not likely that these stores will cannibalize anything else from the outlet business.
I think it's just retailers evolving their format and evolving their desires to attract the consumer who are interested in value and convenience and obviously our centers do that.
Yes Alex the 3 we mentioned in the script were the Rack and Blooming's Outlet and Saks Off 5th these guys have -- are very confident they can perform in the traditional center and that's what's really driving this.
And as Dan mentioned briefly Gap we're going to see nothing but negative movement with the traditional Gap stores in the mall locations.
But Gap outlet is the driver of the growth for that division and that's exciting.
They're quite comfortable in a center with -- discount-oriented center -- with a Ross or a TJ and a Bed Bath and they know they can achieve the same results or even better than they do in a traditional outlet setting.
And your next question comes from Todd Thomas KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> As you -- the question is as you think about your rollover next year what are your expectations for leasing spreads for non-anchor tenants? It looks like the expiring rent is fairly low.
It's about 10% below the portfolio average.
Are we through all of the pre-recession leases? And I'd imagine that you've been working on some of these deals how much visibility do you have on that right now? The visibility we do have Todd is that we will continue to increase the spreads on those non-anchor tenants.
One thing you have to be aware of when we -- when you grow the spread it will vary quarter to quarter.
You may have a quarter where the smaller space has a more positive spread than the anchor space.
The anchor space we're clearly beyond the recession and we actually have leased up most of that came back to us in '08 and '09 so you're looking at a more consistent growth rate in the spreads.
And I would tell you even in the non-anchors we hope to see continued improvement in those spreads.
And the next question we have comes from Paul Morgan Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your-- a couple of your operating metrics I mean you're at 94% occupancy.
You were from '05 to '07 kind of regularly in the 96% kind of territory and your lease spreads were sort of double around where they are now.
And you've obviously done a lot of work on improving the portfolio composition over the past 5 years.
I mean how quickly can we get to those levels and I guess presumably potentially exceed them and kind of over? What are the catalysts that you need to get there in terms of maybe market conditions? Well clearly the catalyst Paul is the lack of new supply and the continued demand and it's a great question as we think about it and we talk about it all the time.
I would've told you a few years ago that 95 95.5 might feel like full occupancy and what could be considered a new normal.
I don't feel that way anymore.
I can't tell you exactly when we'll get there but we're quite confident as we improve the quality of our assets of our portfolio and we continue to see strong demand and as we continue to reduce small shop the smallest shop space as a percentage of our total GLA that we're going to see that full occupancy number be a little higher.
When we hit that I don't know at this point but the momentum is good the demand is great and I'm confident it will be higher than we would've thought a few years ago.
And I think Paul's comments hit exactly on a same-store basis but don't forget that while he's trying to push occupancy as high as possible for the total portfolio Dan and I are trying to buy vacancy and find opportunities out there in the market and make his job more challenging by giving more inventory of that product.
We think that's where some of the most attractive returns are available where we know more about tenant demand than an existing owner and we can buy something very selectively in the high 80s 90% occupancy range like the example in Chicago that Paul talked about earlier and then challenge the leasing team to lease that up.
We've had great success with that so far.
But just when you think about those overall portfolio metrics you might see continued progress on that same-store pool but we hope we're successful in sourcing some attractively-priced vacancy that can lead to good returns and good NOI growth over the year or so after we initially make that acquisition.
And your next question comes from Jeff Donnelly Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dan you mentioned in your remarks that prime assets were mispriced or are mispriced.
And I think in last quarter's call David had touched upon how some of the top coastal markets might in fact be overpriced and that I think that A-quality product was seeing greater improvement in cap rates than other peers.
Can you guys give us a little more detail in your thinking about the mispricing maybe just where do you think it is today on prime where do you think it could be? Which cities can you think present the best opportunities and does that imply that the B product is also mispriced too? In general there is an extraordinary amount of capital out there chasing most if not all income-oriented opportunities particularly those that are perceived to be lower risk.
When you look at real estate in general and shopping centers in general a disproportionate amount of that capital has been focused exclusively on coastal markets.
A disproportionate amount of that capital has been focused largely on grocery-anchored product where thus far there hasn't been nearly as much capital focused on major MSAs but not necessarily with immediate ocean access that have larger footprints as Dan talked about earlier that usually do have a grocery component but along with that smaller format just grocery-anchored neighborhood center.
And so we think it's just an environment where there's less capital currently looking at the product we are and that's why you have seen us be a much larger acquirer this year because we do still think there's an opportunity there.
I would be cautious going too far to your question down the quality spectrum and saying what that means for B or even C assets because there is certainty a massive retailer demand overall but it is disproportionately focused on the higher-quality centers in larger MSAs.
Whether you can drive to the ocean in a day or not I think we're seeing good demand consistently for those higher-quality A centers even A- B+ centers.
When you get lower than that I think it's a challenge and that's why you haven't seen us active in that market and you probably won't.
So I think you've seen pricing there tighten a bit especially with maturing or improving CMBS market but that hasn't been where we've been focused and not where we see the most significant opportunity today.
And your next question comes from Quentin Velleley from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just following on in terms of acquisitions I get the sense that you're sort of potentially ready to ramp acquisitions can you maybe talk a little bit about the size of the current pipeline that you're seeing and also what your preference on funding that pipeline would be? Would you look to do it on a leverage mutual basis or sort of match fund deals with equity? The pipeline we're looking at continues to be significant as it has been for a while.
We continue to close a very small proportion of those deals simply because we are very focused on maintaining our investment discipline.
You know this company suffered mightily from losing that at times in the past and that is not at all lost on this management team or board.
And so I think it continues to be a very disciplined process where we look at a ton of stuff and end up buying a very small percentage of the overall product we look at.
I think we continue to be much more focused on one-off or very small portfolio opportunities.
We continue to be very focused on opportunities with assets that we've owned and managed.
Oftentimes a joint venture for many years given the lower risk profile there.
And so I think the profile of what we've seen throughout the course of this year is consistent with what we're looking at going forward.
We obviously think that we've got an operating platform that provides us information they've put us in an extremely strong position to underwrite assets.
In most cases that means we know too much to bid as aggressively as others.
And in some cases though it means we know more and can get a greater level of comfort.
And so I think you will see us continue to be active in major MSAs and large format prime power centers like we have been year-to-date.
From a funding perspective the natural means of funding that we've used over the past few years has been disposition of non-prime assets.
I think acquiring good assets is important for improving portfolio quality but selling the bad stuff is probably even more important in terms of the way it changes the overall metrics and the overall efficiency of an operating platform.
And so we'll continue to be active on the disposition front.
We acknowledge we were a little lower on dispositions during the quarter but we have quite a bit in the hopper through the fourth quarter so I think that'll continue to be a major driver through the end of this year as well as in the next year.
And to the extent that we see acquisition opportunities that exceed that we've obviously been open to funding that primarily with equity over the past year.
I think on a go forward basis equity would continue to be an important piece of that but again it's got to be driven by finding attractive enough opportunities to justify us selling equity to fund that.
So I think you can look at equity as a portion of the funding at least 1/2 of that so you're talking about transactions that are still going to be beneficial to the balance sheet.
But at this point with the dramatically improved cost of capital particularly related to our unsecured debt and I think you can also think about a portion of the transactions being funded with 10-year bond issuance now that we're talking about comfortably sub 4% levels for that capital but would still look to make transactions both balance sheet and portfolio quality-accretive and not just solving for FFO growth by throwing acquisitions on the line.
Just to expand a little bit on what David's saying Quentin.
In our investor presentation which is obviously online there's a list of proprietary pipeline joint venture assets that we have some sort of governance rights to.
And we have been very pleased with acquiring assets off-market assets that we already managed assets where we know where the opportunity is assets quite frankly that may have been capital-starved.
For example IBDT portfolio that we did with Blackstone where we knew there was a lot of pent-up demand and a lot of deals available a lot of opportunities to grow it's just that their venture was not in a position to take advantage of it so -- from a capital perspective.
So there's great opportunity.
We like to keep certain assets certainly in the family.
We're working with our joint venture partners on a regular basis to do that.
It's highly unlikely that we'll be involved in a market bid where you have multiple people coming in and bidding for an asset through a process.
That's something that often does not lead to the efficiency of pricing that we're looking for.
And your next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan I think a few quarters ago you talked about looking at a $750 million redevelopment pipeline over the next 5 years.
Now that you're increasing your acquisition activity what do you think it will mean for the redevelopment pipeline over time? Cedrik this is Paul.
I mean clearly the $750 million we initially talked about and are working towards include some future acquisitions.
As we continue to go we've identified quite a bit of that $750 million today some of that through our existing portfolio some of it through the recent acquisitions we talked about in the script.
So it's certainly something we consider in the $750 million as we plan out our final number going forward.
It obviously continues to be a very big part of our big growth initiative for us.
The spend continues to ramp up and we remain on track to spend about $120 million this year which is well in excess of the $30 million we spent last year and we'll see even more of that ramp up in 2013 and beyond.
But at this point we are not going beyond the initial $750 million as we do include future acquisitions as part of that initiative.
And your next question comes from the line of Tom Truxillo Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Obviously you guys have made tremendous strides in terms of your balance sheet and you've gotten recognition from that from the agencies finally.
Just looking forward you don't have a lot of maturities coming due.
You already took care of most of the '13s.
But your secured debt seems still relatively high for the peer group.
Can you provide any comments on continuing to look to use more unsecured debt and to continue to grow that unencumbered asset as secured debt matures in '14 and '15? Yes we are absolutely in agreement I think with the direction of your question.
Over time secured debt did get to be a higher and higher percentage of the balance sheet partially because of joint ventures and partially because even for consolidated asset there was a period of time a few years ago where secured was either the only thing available or a much more efficient means of financing.
We recognize that in the stronger environment that exists today where we do have opportunities for multiple sources of new capital that our interest in unsecured meaningfully exceeds our interest in secured.
And I think you'll continue to see the progress in the proportion of secured debt going down over time.
It's obviously a portion of the initiative with the 2013 refinancings where you will see mortgage debt replaced by unsecured debt.
I think we have an even more significant opportunity in '14 with an opportunity to further replace secured with unsecured.
The biggest individual maturity in '14 is the TALF CMBS deal that we've done a few years ago.
If you remember the challenges of that period of time being the first CMBS market back -- first CMBS field back in the market as well as the Fed's involvement in that process ended up with just the most stringent underwriting that's ever occurred for securitization.
And so I think today that leaves us with an extraordinarily under-levered pool that at minimum would allow us to remove a considerable number of assets and grow that unencumbered pool but could also let us easily replace some or all of that secured debt with unsecured.
So I think that's clearly the direction you see us going.
We made progress this year.
We'll make more progress next year.
Also as some of our joint ventures are rationalized whether it's just selling assets or whether it's us buying those assets you've seen a considerable number of those assets move from a joint venture structure where they almost have to have secured debt to a wholly-owned structure where we could look at it putting those in the unencumbered pool and effectively applying unsecured debt to those.
And so you've seen us make progress and you will see considerably more in the coming years that we will continue to show you on a regular basis including the refinancing activity we outlined for the very early 2013 maturity.
And the next question comes from Vincent Chao Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get your thoughts on sort of the initiatives by retailers like Wal-Mart to deliver online orders through their stores.
Just wondering if that's something you think -- are you seeing others adopt more and more of and whether or not you think that's really going to make a material difference in sort of the ongoing battle between sort of the online-only retailers versus the bricks and mortars guys.
That's a great question Vincent.
I'll tell you we are seeing a lot more of it and we're going to see even more of it.
It makes a heck of a lot of sense.
Buying online and pickup in-store is one way of not eroding margin.
One of the things that's happening as you look across the retail community is that as Internet sales in the traditional sense grow operating margin erodes because of the shipping costs in particular or the inability to charge for shipping you have to give free shipping.
So we think that shopping online buying in-store buying online pickup in-store buying online and returning in-store all of which are positive because it's bringing people to the store and to the acknowledgment of the convenience and the dominance of the brick and mortar location has all been very very positive.
So I think we're going to see buying online or -- and picking up in-store or shopping online and buying in-store all increase as smart retailers continue to evolve in a multichannel environment.
So I think -- and I also think it has a significant effect on profitability while it's also taking advantage of the consumers' demand for instant gratification.
People like to have what they want when they want it.
And if you see something online and you can go down the road and pick it up in the store that's a very very attractive way to communicate with the consumer and it's a very attractive and efficient way to distribute goods.
So I think we're going to continue to see various aspects of online in-store interaction.
But buying online pick up in-store shop online buy in-store the whole buying online and even return to store or exchange in-store is all going to become ever more active in our business.
Vincent it's also worth noting as we go into this holiday season we've heard many of the larger retailers the discounters the electronics guys and others talk about price matching and same-day delivery.
These guys are not sitting back.
They're obviously going after the business that the pure online plays are doing.
I also think it's one of the reasons why we're seeing a little bit less of the downsizing that had been previously reported because if shop online and pickup in-store accelerates which it is and then the real size of the store you may need lesser square footage of actual selling space but you might need more stockroom space because you have people coming to pick up.
The competitive advantage is of course that you can get same-day goods and in order to have same-day goods you must have a sufficient inventory levels to deliver those same-day goods.
So I think that's why you see some hesitation from some of the retailers that have previously talked about downsizing and from actually executing the downsizing strategy because they're not quite sure exactly how the store is going to weigh out and how much stockroom space they need as they continue to push for a store relationship between online and the consumer.
And your next question comes from Alex Goldfarb Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Yes just following up that question are you guys seeing more retailers trying to reinvigorate the concept of a genuine sales force? I mean if you look at what happened at Best Buy or Circuit City they didn't really have salespeople.
So you've got customers walking into the store touching the product going on their iPhone ordering it which seems crazy.
Are you seeing more retailers rediscover the importance of having a well-trained commission-based sales force? Or is that not really how they're tackling the Internet? Alex they've rediscovered the need for that.
That's where we are right now.
I mean I think there's still a lot to be proven.
As far as with the electronics guys and in Best Buy specifically there is no doubt where they are focused and that's almost to the appleseque in terms of their sales staff and how they treat and educate the customer.
But right now I would tell you that it's probably at the stage where they've identified we have to do that and we're seeing some initiatives on the part of retailers and some progress but they've still got a long way to go.
You can see it more and more from the -- especially that category.
And while I think having a professional sales force and a motivated sales force is important it's not nearly as important as having the right merchandise in the store.
And a great sales force trying to sell bad merchandise won't work.
So while I think that's important I don't think anyone should think that that's going to be the solution for stores that are struggling in gaining consumer acceptance of their merchandise.
And it'll take some time in some cases for some of the retailers to realize that.
But again no matter how good your sales folks are if you don't have the right product in the store and some of the retailers you mentioned Alex are exactly what the issue is they don't have the right merchandise in the store a good sales force is not going to help.
And just like great real estate cannot bail out a bad retailer.
Great real estate cannot bail out a bad merchant.
The consumer is just simply too smart.
And your next question comes from Cedrik Lachance Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on Brazil actually.
Can you comment a little bit on the performance of your portfolio in Brazil currently? And then what was the impact of the Brazilian operations to your reported same-store NOI this quarter? Conditions in Brazil continue to be relatively strong.
We'd characterize it as an absolute deceleration from last year but I think we tried to be very candid at that time in saying that we thought the results and the growth in 2011 was unsustainable.
And so while the full results from the third quarter will come out when Sonae Sierra Brazil reports results early next week I think we can say that conditions continue to be relatively strong growth in the high single-digits has replaced growth in the high teens from 12 months ago.
It's been further impaired by currency the depreciated 20-ish percent 15% to 20% depending on what exact period you're looking at.
And so it's certainly been a drag on our overall results when you have that currency overlay on the decelerated growth for this year.
It's still a market where we see a considerable opportunity for our operating assets and for the remaining condo development.
Enthusiasm works but certainly a slower growth environment and last year's assets still stronger growth than we see available just about anywhere else from a macro standpoint.
It did have a slightly positive benefit to same-store NOI for the quarter.
So on a pro-rata basis the 3.7% same-store NOI growth that we reported was improved by approximately 20 basis points relative to what it would have been on a just-domestic basis.
So a slight help but 3.5% versus 3.7% and really very strong numbers and much less of a skew relative to last year when Brazil was a meaningful driver of the overall same-store results.
So this year you are seeing the overwhelming majority of that growth come domestically but Brazil continues to be a bit of a helpful driver and we would expect that to continue.
And your next question comes from Samit Parikh from ISI.
Research Division</strong> David earlier this year you were out repurchasing your 9.625% unsecured.
Is DDR still in the market repurchasing longer-dated unsecured? Year-to-date we have repurchased $60 million of our 9 5/8 2016 notes.
I think at the time we were buying those we made the case that while it's a no-brainer from a current yield perspective more importantly from a yield to maturity perspective were we able to raise longer-term capital at a lower yield to maturity than what the 16s were trading at.
So from a true economic standpoint we were better off by effectively prepaying a portion of that interest and getting to replace it with new cheaper debt had not only the current yield benefit but a true economic benefit.
Where we look at pricing today as well as the relatively low liquidity in those bonds we haven't seen opportunities recently and so you did not see us back in.
In the third quarter I think we've bought more of our debt back in the open market than any REIT by a pretty significant amount and so we're constantly aware of what's going on in that market both in terms of our incremental cost of capital to fund that as well as where our bonds are trading but we haven't seen opportunities lately the way that we did earlier in the year.
So it's something we continue to monitor but haven't been active real recently and also when we think about a tender for those bonds and anything close to make whole sort of pricing I think that is just a premium and an extremely low yield maturity at which we'd be buying those back where -- while you might have a current yield benefit we just don't see the economic gain to DDR from prepaying those.
We'll continue to be opportunistic but we didn't see anything happen in the third quarter.
And your next question comes from Michael Mueller JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the acquisitions a lot of what you've done it looks like it's on balance sheet you've been buying out partner interest.
And I know Dan you mentioned there are partnership or JV agreements where you have certain rights.
If we look down the road say 3 years or 5 years and look at the JVs that are remaining and outstanding today because it's -- do we get -- do you have the sense that that number's going to be very different a few years from now? Yes I do think that we expect the number of joint ventures to be different as we look out a few years.
It's already changed pretty significantly from a point when we had 15 to almost 20 total joint ventures including a number of one-off joint ventures.
And today we're right around 10.
I do think that we make a case that there's a value to that business there's value to us being able to run out what we think is certainly the highest-quality operating portfolio out there.
There's value to having access to private equity which might be priced differently in certain points of the cycle than what public equity is available at.
But I think that historic perspective of let's work with as many people as possible even on very small joint ventures is one that we just don't think makes a lot of sense going forward.
So I think you could expect that number to certainly be smaller as we look out a few years but a smaller number of larger potentially joint ventures than the average size of our venture today and with higher quality best of breed sort of partners that have a long-term alignment of interest.
And so when you've seen us add people like Blackstone to that mix it doesn't necessarily have a perfect alignment of interest because they do have a little greater interest in debt and a little shorter-term timeline and to recognize their profits versus our longer-term ownership mindset.
I do think you've seen us actively work on a larger deal with a group like that rather than some of these one-off transactions you've seen in the past and we've been actively working our way out of some of those smaller ventures and I think you could expect to see that continue and us deal with less people on a joint venture basis going forward.
And I would now like to turn the call over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us this morning.
For those of us who are -- those of our friends on the call who are still having difficulty with power and telephones et cetera we appreciate the efforts and we hope that you get a sense of normalcy back as soon as possible.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 DDR Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Lisa and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Samir Khanal Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and President and CFO David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Samir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Let me start by reiterating that we are very pleased with our fourth quarter and 2012 results and even more pleased with our 2013 guidance and dividend increase.
None of which should be a surprise given the transformation of our portfolio through significant capital recycling rebuilding our balance sheet and the successful execution of our numerous other strategic objectives and corporate initiatives that David and Paul will address in more detail momentarily.
However before that I'd like to address the macroeconomic backdrop we see in 2013.
There have been several headlines and conversations regarding headwinds facing the consumer particularly concern surrounding fiscal policy higher payroll taxes and less supportive interest rate expectations.
While there was certainly merit to these concerns I encourage you to look at the factors that truly influence the consumer and consistently translate into retail sales.
Recent improvements in the jobs market coupled with wage increases and rising home prices continue to serve as tailwinds for the consumer.
Specifically in December American incomes posted the greatest increase since 2004 with personal income growth of 2.6% according to the Commerce Department.
Moreover consumer net worth continues to improve with rising home prices and personal balance sheets reflect increased strength and liquidity as debt service payments as a percent of disposable income are near an all-time low.
All of this led to strong retail sales in January and increases in full year guidance for many of our key retailers in the value driven sectors.
While there are certainly plenty of risk in the market caused by instability in Washington and elsewhere the consumer continues to tell us that the most important factors that influence retail sales are jobs and wages.
It's not consumer confidence payroll taxes events in Europe or even gas prices.
We have seen this quarter-after-quarter and month-after-month with each passing retail sales report.
With wage growth and greater job stability we continue to see increases in retail sales to those retailers who deserve it most and those market share gains are visibly going to several of our key retailers.
Markets clearly have a psychology and as we've seen in recent months this market has shrugged off legislative dysfunctionality that created justifiable cause for concern.
The greatest downside risk for the continued momentum is that we legislate ourselves back into a recession and while I think that's very unlikely certainly not outside of the realm of possibility given past action and conduct from our leaders in Washington.
However the consumers once again proving to be resilient and our portfolio continues to enjoy the macro tailwinds that benefited us in 2012 and continue in 2013.
The clear consumer preference is for value and convenience.
What does this mean for DDR? As you saw in our 2013 guidance press release we are expecting FFO growth of 6% at the midpoint driven by continued improvements in operational metrics as well as our capital recycling efforts to advance the improvement in portfolio quality.
Retailers continue to seek new store growth in a supply-constrained market and our portfolio has become a first look for several of the fastest-growing most financially successful retailers.
As a result we expect to increase our portfolio lease rate to 95% grow same-store NOI between 2% and 3% while improving our credit quality of cash flow beyond the current historic levels.
Additionally our revamped balance sheet and reduced cost of capital from its prudent transactional volume and we continue to find attractive investment opportunities relative to current market pricing.
We are not done growing our portfolio improving our balance sheet or executing any of our strategic objectives.
As a result 2013 will be the continuation of our effort to actively monitor and participate in market opportunities as we prudently pursue the creation of long-term shareholder value.
I'll now turn the call over to Paul to discuss portfolio operations.
Thanks Dan.
Before spending some time discussing the current leasing environment recent retail sales results and 2013 guidance I would like to highlight our accomplishments in the fourth quarter which led to continued improvement across our portfolio.
In the fourth quarter we executed 471 new leases and renewals for 2.4 million square feet.
Spreads on renewals were up 6.8% and new leasing spreads were up 11.7%.
More importantly on a pro rata basis new deal spreads were 260 basis points higher at 14.3%.
Combined leasing spreads were positive 7.6% and on a pro rata basis spreads were 20 basis points higher at 7.8%.
For the full year we executed 1 958 new leases and renewals for 11.3 million square feet resulting in a year end lease rate of 94.2%.
This represents a 20 basis point improvement sequentially.
As evidenced by another quarter of double digit new deal spreads and our strongest renewals spread in 16 quarters the current leasing environment coupled with our improved portfolio quality is clearly having a positive impact on our portfolio metrics.
Same-store NOI was up 4.3% at 100% and 4.4% pro rata for the fourth quarter.
And it's worth noting that our consolidated U.S.
portfolio was up over 5% for the quarter.
Regarding 2013 our expectations for same-store NOI growth is 2% to 3%.
As mentioned in our guidance we expect to recognize the majority of this growth in the back half of 2013 due to the timing of move-outs and 2013 rent commencements.
Importantly the majority of this growth is already committed through leasing completed prior to year end 2012.
Of approximately 7.5 million square feet of lease expirations in 2013 55% were renewed or took options prior to year end and the positive results of those deals are reflected in the renewal spreads we've reported.
Given the strong head start to 2013 we are confident that we will achieve a high retention rate for renewals and continue to grow our renewal spreads in 2013.
Additionally as of the end of the fourth quarter we have completed over 60% of the new deals with a budgeted rent commencement date in 2013.
Our optimism going into 2013 is based on our progress to date our deep pipeline of potential new deals the lack of new supply and the growing demand we continue to experience across our portfolio.
On a macro basis in 2013 less than 16 million square feet of new open air space will be developed with only a fraction of that space being competitive with our prime power centers.
In addition 30 of our top tenants alone have combined open-to-buys for more than 150 million square feet in the next 2 years.
This dynamic results in a more strategic approach to leasing allowing for the retenanting of underperforming tenants with high credit quality retailers the rightsizing of boxes and the consolidation of historically vacant small shop space.
Even with less obvious vacancy in our portfolio we are confident we will creatively lease another 11 million square feet of space in 2013.
As it relates to our retail outlook I'd like to first update you on our takeaways from a year of retailer meetings portfolio reviews and market observations.
2012 marked a year of greater cooperation flexibility and agility on behalf of retailers.
Nearly every retailer with whom we met highlighted flexibility and store size and configuration as being crucial in this low supply market.
Examples of this include anchor retailers such as Walmart with their small neighborhood market footprint box users such as TJX Dick's Sporting Goods and Bed Bath &amp; Beyond with their ability to take a variety of space configurations and mid-box users such as Shoe Carnival Five Below and Tilly's all of which are aggressively expanding in the power center sector with high levels of flexibility in store size and configuration.
Another recurring theme during our discussions was e-commerce.
While nearly every retailer discussed future investments in e-commerce none said that it would be at the expense of new brick-and-mortar locations as margins clearly remain in store not online.
Retailers further emphasized the importance of maintaining and improving profit primarily through margin expansion.
Given this importance of margins in the relationship to sales I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing holiday winners and losers.
While headlines and opinions were volatile our value and convenience-oriented retailers were consistent winners.
They not only won market share but maintained or improved margins.
Ross and TJX are great examples as they both outperformed the retail sector by posting positive same-store comps of 6% and raised guidance after Christmas and then again after reporting strong January results.
Even less often discussed power center retailers such as Stein Mart and Pier One participated in the market share grab posting high single digit comps and reporting that they were able to grow market share without negatively impacting margins.
Target is an example of a retailer that is not willing to sacrifice margin for the benefit of sales.
Over the holiday season their sales were relatively flat which might have appeared disappointing on the surface.
Through disciplined inventory management and controlled promotional events they were able to maintain a strong margin level allowing them to guide to a meet or beat for fourth quarter earnings.
You've heard me say this before sales are nice but margins are better.
Conversely traditional department stores such as JCPenney Sears and Bon-Ton continue to post anemic sales while watching their margins erode putting their market share up for grabs and resulting in disappointing earnings.
We expect this trend of winners and losers to continue and are confident that our tenants are the obvious beneficiary of consumer preferences and market share gains.
We also continue to see a significant shift in consumer spending patterns in the grocery segment.
Competition for traditional grocers includes discounters such as Walmart and Target warehouse clubs such as Sam's Sam's Club BJ's and Costco and specialty grocers such as Whole Foods Sprouts Farmers Market Trader Joe's and the Fresh Market.
We expect this trend to continue given that traditional grocers operate with razor-thin margins making it difficult to compete with the low-cost discount and warehouse club providers on one end as well as specialty grocers that continue to carve out a strong high price point niche.
The bottom line is that the traditional grocer is being squeezed at both ends and this dynamic based on reported market share gains has no end in sight.
As we continue to experience these changes in consumer shopping patterns our strategy to improve the quality of our portfolio and to align ourselves with high credit value and convenience-oriented retailers has remained consistent.
In the last 3 years we've leased 34 million square feet and 1/3 of that space was leased to high credit retailers such as Walmart Target Kohl's Dick's Sporting Goods T.J.
Maxx Marshalls HomeGoods Ross Bed Bath &amp; Beyond buybuy Baby World Market PetSmart and others.
These are the retailers winning the wallets of the consumer every day.
Given our growing exposure to best-in-class retailers our strong start to the year and the continued shift in consumer spending preferences we expect strong deal velocity in 2013 resulting in a positive impact on rental spreads.
And I'll now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO for the fourth quarter was $84 million or $0.27 per share slightly ahead of our plans.
Including non-operating items FFO for the quarter was $62 million or $0.20 per share.
Non-operating items during the quarter were mainly a noncash loss from the deconsolidation of developed land in Canada and transaction costs related to the recapture of an anchor pattern fine shopping center in Pasadena California.
For the full year operating FFO was $312 million or $1.03 per share an increase of 6.2% over 2011 results.
From an investment standpoint the fourth quarter was another period of strong execution of our strategic objective to improve the quality of our portfolio while lowering leverage and risk and preparing the company for long-term growth at the same time.
In December we purchased 2 market dominant power centers in North Carolina for $151 million funded primarily with $75 million of new common equity as well as our share of asset sale proceeds during the quarter of $62 million.
Carolina Pavilion in Charlotte was acquired for $106 million and Poyner Place in Raleigh for $45 million.
These properties have a combined lease rate of 95% average trade area household incomes of $80 000 and trade area populations of 590 000 people.
Carolina Pavilion was purchased in an off-market transaction from Blackstone and features anchor tenants such as Target Kohl's Nordstrom Rack Ross buybuy Baby Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Jo-Ann and AMC Theatres.
Additionally 2 new national retailers PetSmart and Golfsmith will soon join the Carolina Pavilion anchor lineup filling a portion of the 85 000 square feet of currently vacant space.
Poyner Place features anchor tenants such as Target Ross Old Navy World Market Shoe Carnival and Pier One.
Carolina Pavilion and Poyner Place are not secured by mortgages and have been added to our growing high-quality unencumbered asset pool.
For the full year we closed $2.1 billion of acquisitions our share of which was $760 million.
Investments in 2012 were funded mainly with $511 million of new common equity issued throughout the year and our share of disposition proceeds which were $239 million.
It is very important to note that 2012 disposition proceeds include the sale of nearly $100 million of non-income-producing assets.
We were pleased with the increased level of non-income-producing assets sales in 2012 and expect to continue this monetization process in 2013.
Our capital recycling efforts over the last 5 years have resulted in significant value creation for all DDR stakeholders and position the company well for strong revenue growth in the future.
The great majority of high-quality attractively priced prime power centers that we acquired in 2012 were off-market transactions properties that we have managed for many years and sourced through relationships with existing partners.
The tenancy in these centers include some of our closest retail partners and the nation's most profitable retailers including 11 Targets 20 TJX concepts 19 Bed Baths 10 Ross's and 9 Dick's Sporting Goods.
We continue to match fund investments with equity further improving our balance sheet and growing our portfolio of unencumbered prime shopping centers.
During the year we added 8 large-scale power centers to the unencumbered asset pool increasing our unencumbered NOI by 18%.
Today over 60% of our consolidated NOI is generated by the unencumbered asset pool which provides us the greatest opportunity to leverage the DDR operating platform.
The last 4 months were also a period of strong execution of our strategic objective to opportunistically raise attractively priced capital.
In November we issued $150 million of 10-year unsecured notes at a yield to maturity of 3.5% by reopening our 2022 bond offering at a premium to par.
And in January we announced the $1.2 billion refinancing of our unsecured revolving credit facilities and secured term loans significantly extending debt duration and lowering interest cost.
Our new $815 million unsecured revolving credit facilities mature in 2018 and pricing is currently LIBOR plus 140 basis points a decrease of 25 basis points from the rate on the prior facilities.
Further annual facility fees were reduced by -- were reduced to 30 basis points.
Our new $400 million secured term loan also matures in 2018.
Pricing is currently set at LIBOR plus 155 basis points a decrease of 15 basis points from the prior rate.
Also the size of the term loan was reduced from $500 million with proceeds from the November bond issuance advancing our goal of lowering secured debt.
During 2012 we closed $1.2 billion of long-term financing with an average maturity of 7.9 years and interest fixed at 3.8% with the proceeds used to retire nearly $1 billion of 4.8% debt.
Our aggressive capital raising efforts over the past few years have certainly lowered our overall cost of capital balanced our debt maturities and positioned us well for growth.
We have no near-term capital needs with only $41 million of debt maturing in 2013 no unsecured debt maturities until 2015 and nearly 80% capacity on our revolving credit facilities.
As you know in January we issued 2013 guidance on operating FFO of $1.07 to $1.11 per share.
As Paul mentioned earlier our guidance assumes same-store NOI growth 2% to 3% weighted towards the second half of the year.
$250 million of acquisitions and $200 million of dispositions including $50 million of non-income-producing asset sales.
We were pleased to meaningfully exceed our guidance for acquisitions and dispositions in 2012 and hope to be able to do so again.
However we will not compromise our investment discipline and we will only pursue attractively priced acquisitions with strong long-term growth prospects in major markets of leading tenants.
As Dan mentioned earlier in recognition of our significantly reduced risk profile our Board of Directors approved a $0.135 per share common stock dividend for the first quarter of 2013 a 12.5% increase over 2012's quarterly rate.
At an annualized level of $0.54 per share this represents payout ratio of 50% of our operating FFO.
The strength of our operating platform high credit quality of our cash flows and access to competitively priced capital should continue in 2013 and beyond and we expect further strong relative growth in the dividend over the next few years while still generating significant free cash flow for reinvestment.
Earlier this month we announced the new dividend reinvestment Direct Share purchase plan which provides a convenient and efficient opportunity for new investors to purchase DDR shares and for existing shareholders to increase their holdings while also enjoying the benefit of compound returns through reinvestment of the dividend.
The Investor Relations section of our website has a page devoted to the benefits of the new plan with instructions on how to enroll.
Finally we are pleased to announce that we will be hosting an Investor Day this fall in Charlotte on October 10.
In addition to a corporate update we will include case studies and a tour of significant recent investment activity which highlights our thoughtful and opportunistic capital allocation strategy.
We hope that you will be able to join us.
At this point I'll stop and turn the call over to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question has to do with the lack of new development and what that means to the retailers.
I think you touched on it in your comments; they're being more flexible.
I'm wondering if also they're more willing to accept increases on renewals because of that difficulty.
And are we seeing any -- trying to seek out alternative avenues like triple net leases to open freestanding stores or anything like that? Yes Craig as we've talked about consistently while there will be a little bit of new development in this sector it's going to have very very little if any impact on the dynamic we talk about all the time and it absolutely does change.
You see it in the spreads.
In our negotiations there's a reason we see our spreads continue to increase and our rent continue to increase and that's because they need space.
That drives the creative approach we take to our leasing where we're now in a position that we weren't in 4 years ago where we can get people out get the right people in and clearly they're willing to pay for it.
In terms of the triple net aspect that doesn't work for everybody.
I mean there are very few retailers that can go it alone if you will.
Certainly some of the larger boxes like the Walmart and the home supply guys and Target and some examples.
But it would not work for a Bed Bath &amp; Beyond as one example to do a freestanding triple net deal.
It's just -- they like to function in shopping centers anchored by people like Walmart and Target so it's not a real opportunity.
It's -- and you've heard me say this before they will struggle to hit their open-to-buys and their growth expectations but that again works very very well for us and our job is to figure out how to get them in how to get those winning retailers into our centers and continue to improve the mix credit quality and the rent.
I think the other thing to keep in mind Craig is that development is not just determined on the financial viability of the project because I cannot remember a time in the 27 years I've been in this business where the entitlement process is more burdensome and there's more risk associated with it.
Whether it be local state or federal entitlements for projects the risk profile has expanded dramatically the amount of upfront capital needed for development to put at risk has been dramatically increased.
And of course the certainty of execution is not there.
So even though I think tenants -- the natural and sort of the intuitive thought is that tenants are having a hard time finding space which is driving rent spreads and one of the things that they can do is maybe pay less than they're paying us but pay more than they would previously for new development project to spark development.
That doesn't mean that it's going to happen because even if the faucet was turned on today the average entitlement process for a project of our size -- keep in mind ours are larger than some of the others in the sector -- is 2 to 3 years to get through the entitlement process.
So even if the spigot was turned on you wouldn't see anything new for quite some time and I'm not encouraged by what I see in the municipal side or the governmental side of cooperation to spur development.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> You guys are clearly a power center company.
Small shop spaces is a -- no pun intended -- is a small part of the business.
But just curious there's been strong rebound that we've seen in the results from your peers.
And while it is small for you guys just sort of curious what improvements you've seen in your small shop space both on an occupancy perhaps rent.
And then also if you can remind us the percent of your portfolio that is small shop.
Right.
In the under 5 000 square foot category Alex which we refer to as a small shop we're about 16% which is down over the course of the year about 100 basis points.
So that's one of our objectives obviously to reduce the amount of small shop space in our portfolio.
In the fourth quarter if you look at the supplemental we were down a little bit in occupancy in that category but that's solely related to the sale of some assets in Brazil.
Obviously a lot of small shop space that was at a fairly high lease rate.
The absence of the sale of the Brazil assets we would have shown about a 30 basis point improvement in our occupancy in the small shop space.
So I would tell you that there's no perfect measurement.
I think 15% of portfolio in that smaller space is about right.
Obviously it's got to be the right space and the right asset.
That's about 1 million square feet less than we have today and we achieved it through small shop consolidation asset sales redevelopment.
And in terms of the deals the spreads were right on with the -- and we see some fluctuation quarter-to-quarter between the spreads for the box space versus the small shops.
But this quarter as an example we saw right about that double digit increase in new deal spreads on the small shops.
So we're going to continue to make progress.
Some of our initiatives have been very successful such as Set Up Shop and the Franchise Connect program.
But again I want to drive it a little lower in terms of exposure maybe another 100 basis points to get it somewhere in that 15%.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On your same-store NOI guidance of 2% to 3% and then your comment that you expect that to be back-end loaded.
I mean can you just help me kind of triangulate that with what you did in 2012 along with your -- I mean it sounds like you're expecting at least as much pickup in occupancy lease spreads at least as strong.
I'm just trying to see what would prompt a slowdown to that level for the full year given kind of the strength that you're talking about through kind of all the other relevant metrics.
And then should we expect flatter than that number for the first part of the year? And would that be true with occupancy as well and then ramping late in the year? Paul we generally expect 2013 to look somewhat like what you saw in 2012.
The supply-demand dynamics Paul talked about earlier are still very strong and certainly landlord favorable.
Last year we guided to 2% to 3% with a back-end load to that and so that's the same guidance for this year.
I think we hope to see the same outperformance of that but where we stand today I think we believe it's prudent to be at that 2% to 3% range and hope we can exceed it.
The seasonality does drive more of that to the latter half of the year.
Obviously retailers are not agnostic as to when they open.
And so we do always face a little greater level of move-outs in the earlier part of the year and openings in the second half of the year.
So I think that leads to the back-end loading so you could see some deceleration in the first half of the year but I think we feel very comfortable with the ability to at least meet the 2% to 3% guidance that we've outlined for same-store NOI for 2013.
And as you mentioned comprised of both the occupancy increases to the same-store pool which you don't always see flow to the bottom line because we have been adding inventory through acquisitions of some vacancy.
But on a same-store basis certainly expect to see the occupancy increase as well as continued positive rental spreads in the high single low double digits and a considerable volume of leasing activity that justifies our ability to push those rents.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just in 2012 you'd effectively match funded that $760 million of acquisitions with equity asset sales and retained earnings.
I know in 2013 your guidance for acquisition is only $250 million.
But if you do beat that significantly how are you thinking about funding that? Would you continue to match fund with equity? Or would you now be happy to do more of it on a leverage-neutral basis? For us the first part of it has to be can we source attractively priced acquisition opportunities? We were pleased with what we were able to find in 2012.
And we think there are opportunities out there in 2013 but the driver will be can we find what we believe to be well priced low-risk acquisition opportunities where we can take an asset and plug it into our platform and get a good initial return and growth after that? So I think the deals are going to drive the volume of activity rather than just the funding considerations.
But obviously the funding of those transactions is crucially important when you look at the overall picture for DDR.
Exactly as you said last year we did overwhelmingly fund acquisition activity with new common equity.
It was important for us to not only improve portfolio quality but also to show noticeable balance sheet improvement by disproportionately funding those deals with equity.
On a go-forward basis to the extent that we do find attractively priced acquisition opportunities I think it's reasonable to expect that the net portion of that so the portion of that that exceeds disposition activity will be somewhat funded with new common equity.
If we can justify the attractiveness of the deals I think we would add additional equity to fund those but I do think the proportion of that equity would probably be lower than it was in 2012 and so a greater balance in 2013.
Where acquisition opportunities that we find are going to improve portfolio quality you will see continued balance sheet improvement.
But also I think there can be a portion of debt funding on those acquisitions where you do also see a better balance where instead of FFO neutrality from fully equity-funded acquisitions you have some amount of benefit to FFO from funding a portion of the net investment activity with debt.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> If we're thinking about the 80 basis point leased increase guidance for this year for 2013 I guess the question is do you see the same sort of increase on an occupancy basis? And then where specifically is it coming from? Is it more pure big-box leasing? Is it small shop leasing or is it kind of combining the small shops? So is it one aspect of that stuff that's really driving the increase? Well in terms of the guidance first of all in comparison to the occupied rate Michael I see that moving pretty much in lockstep.
We were about 120 basis points spread between occupied and leased at the end of the third quarter as well as the fourth quarter.
And as you've noted over the several quarters I mean down significantly from that peak spread of 300 still not back to that 50 to 100 kind of normalized spread between occupied and leased.
So I would see over the course of '13 that we stay in that 100 -- there'll be fluctuations obviously by quarter but 100 to 150 basis points and gradually as we get closer to that full occupancy number we will see it get under 100 basis points.
But I would think that we're going to have a spread that's pretty consistent with 120 basis points we reported for the third and fourth quarters.
Box space drives the leasing just because it's bigger space and that happens through whether it's filling vacancy replacing existing tenants consolidations of small shop space redevelopments.
Those are the guys and you see that in our demand book and as we've talked about some of the winning retailers out there who are growing in big numbers they are the ones that are going to continue to drive it.
Again on the small shop as I mentioned earlier we're going to see continued improvement in the lease up but we're also going to dispose of some of that also through asset sales or through the redevelopment avenue.
I think one of the other things to keep in mind Mike is -- to keep an eye on is the small shop consolidation effort because it's been an extremely successful.
And in a supply constrained market the creation of space -- that's where I think Paul mentioned in his script that we'll creatively lease another 11 million square feet.
It's not intuitively obvious from looking at our portfolio which is going to be a 95% lease exactly where that 11 million square feet comes from except for the fact that tenants are extremely flexible right now.
We do have a desire as Paul mentioned to reduce our small -- our exposure to small shop space.
And when you combine all that it's going to give us a great opportunity to consolidate small shop space into box users or juniors.
So I think that's going to be an interesting statistic to follow through the course of the year because we're going to basically have to create space in order to meet the growth demands of our retailers and even being creative isn't going to solve the problem that tenants under enormous pressure to find growth opportunities and are having difficulty doing so.
It's good for the rent story it's going to be good for the occupancy story.
It will be good for the lease rate story.
I'm not convinced it's going to be great for the development story yet as I mentioned earlier but I think creatively consolidating small shop space is going to be a trend that is with us for a very long time.
Your next question comes from the line of Samit Parikh of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question to the back half weighted NOI guidance.
Just in your guidance are you assuming a historical average level of move-outs call it for Q1 and early Q2? Or are you assuming sort of the same level that you saw in 2012 as to what you'll see in 2013? Samit we're assuming about the same level as 2012.
One great example I think is Fashion Bug.
We're always going to see more move-outs early in the year than we will later in the year.
And that's why you see the inconsistency if you will in the same-store NOI number over the quarters.
Fashion Bug we've got 19 right now they're all closing at the end -- early in the first quarter over half of them are leased.
But obviously there's going to be downtime.
And that's just one example of what we see.
With the move-outs a lot of it is already leased and it's reflected in the lease rate but you're not going to see those income producing till later in the year.
But it's a consistent story year-after-year.
We don't see any movement up or down.
We anticipate about the same number of move-outs early in this first quarter.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you spoke about the mispricing of assets in the marketplace for some larger format power centers.
So I was just wondering do you still see that pricing disconnect today or has the pricing come in a bit over the last few months? And maybe some comments on just pricing for the properties that you're underwriting today would be helpful.
Well we do see continued pricing disconnect on what we're underwriting that come in a little bit and there has been some cap rate compression on some of the large power centers that we're looking at currently primarily because year end sales results were very good and the balance sheets and their credit quality of the cash flow is very attractive to some institutional capital.
So we are seeing a little bit but not enough to discourage us from pursuing some of these assets aggressively.
We think that if you look at some of the other sectors and some of the alternative investments we still feel that power centers are attractively priced.
We feel that our portfolio could create value and assets that others look at as core we look at as core plus.
We have very very close relationship with the tenants that are giving us a lot of direction on assets that they think could be more than they currently are.
A number of the assets are still owned today by over-levered or undercapitalized private owners who need to figure out a strategy on what to do with the asset and we're to help.
So I think that you'll continue to see us effectively access the market.
Like David said I'll be very disappointed if we hit our guided number of $250 million of acquisitions and I fully expect that we'll exceed it.
Your next question comes from the line of Wes Golladay with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just going back to this guidance of $250 million of acquisitions.
In light of what you guys did last year and the improvement of the cost of capital I guess what is holding you back from meaningfully exceeding that goal? Is it the volume -- lack of deal volume you're seeing? Or are you waiting for more dispositions to fund the acquisitions? Wes last year we guided to $150 million of acquisitions and our share by year end we ended up closing on $760 million of acquisition activity.
So it will be opportunity driven and we do think this is a very achievable number based on what we're seeing today as well as just being early in the year and we think our relationships will continue to source some attractive and unique opportunities.
I think the biggest risk for us to only achieving or even not achieving the $250 million of acquisitions is the pricing for power centers goes up significantly in the near term.
I characterize that as a risk to the acquisition opportunity but I don't think that's a risk to the company overall as we're obviously very well positioned for that trade.
So to the extent that the environment remains as it has been recently -- and of course things sort of slowed down around year end and they're just actively ramping up again for '13 where transactional activity is becoming a bit more significant and we are still seeing an acquisition opportunity that allows us to find some assets without having to compromise our discipline.
To the extent that environment continues we think the $250 million is extremely achievable.
To the extent that asset pricing goes up significantly we think that our portfolio is very well positioned for that but we are active in the market and hope that we can exceed that guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Truxillo with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> David obviously you guys have done tremendous work in getting your balance sheet in order.
But if I look at your 5-year plan you still have about a turn of leverage either way you look at it pro rata or consolidated a turn of leverage that you need to go down in order to meet your 5-year plan.
And you only have about 1.5 years left to do it.
So I guess the question kind of goes back to acquisition pace and the earlier question on how you fund that.
Don't you kind of have to acquire more assets and with an equity heavy focus on funding those acquisitions in order to accomplish these goals? I certainly wouldn't say we have to acquire more assets or fund it with all equity.
I think that's certainly one tool.
In our normal investor slide deck we show the various sources of opportunity to lower debt to EBITDA from free cash flow from the non-income-producing asset sales.
I think one of them that's going to be more important on a go-forward basis is we've been ramping up the redevelopment program and putting additional capital into there as well as ramping up development in Brazil.
You've been putting more capital into some of those activities where you haven't seen the EBITDA come out the other side.
And so I do think there remain a number of significant and important levers for us to continue to reduce debt to EBITDA acquisitions that are somewhat equity funded is absolutely one of those.
It was a key for us last year and I think it can still be an important one for us going forward but it's certainly not the only arrow that we have to achieve those goals.
I'd also note one thing that's difficult when you look at these stats for any individual period is the acquisition activity was disproportionately in the second half of 2012.
So year end balance sheet is reflecting the entirety of the debt that was taken on or of the funding that was done for those deals however were reflecting much less in a year of the actual EBITDA that's coming from that.
So even though the Blackstone deal was announced in early January it didn't close until midyear and the majority of other transactional activity was all in the second half.
The $150 million of North Carolina deals we closed in the fourth quarter were in the last 10 days of December.
And so I think there are -- there is a good case for some built-in improvement to those metrics just because of showing a point in time balance sheet that reflects the funding of transactions but not by any means reflecting certainly not a full year but in a lot of cases not even a full quarter for the fourth quarter of that EBITDA.
So I think there are quite a few ways that we expect to continue to reduce debt to EBITDA on a consistent basis.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Cedrik Lachance with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to keep asking questions about acquisitions but when you look at your joint ventures how important do you think they can turn out to be as a source of acquisitions over the next 2 or 3 years? I think it's going to be a great source of acquisitions Cedrik because number one the great thing about that relationship is that the underwriting and the due diligence risk is basically removed from any of those assets.
So we can be very very confident in not only the performance of the asset but the appropriateness of our pricing.
So we do have an internal preference to acquire assets from joint venture partners particularly assets that we have a long operating history with and many of the assets that we actually built.
So I think that is an area of absolute focus for us on an internal basis.
That being said we are obviously active in -- outside we can't rely on that solely because we don't control when those assets trade.
But we do certainly have great relationships with our partners who own the assets that we want to own and we will continue to pursue that as a primary opportunity to provide us product.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Rosivach with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> You had -- digging in you had a really big move in the development projects primarily on hold line.
It was 409 September 30 and now you're down to 273.
And it looks encouraging because obviously you didn't have $130 million of impairments.
So I thought maybe you could walk through what you sold and maybe did some stuff get promoted that there were some old predevelopments that now actually makes sense to build? Yes there are a few different pieces of that.
I think most importantly we did have our largest quarter of sale activity in terms of non-income-producing assets in the fourth quarter including one large site in Toronto and a number in the U.S.
one significant one that now shows up as a development in progress.
The first part of that was an asset -- was a land sale to a major anchor for that project.
So not only cash in the door but also a project that moves into the CIP line as we've now gotten an anchor building their store and certainly increased value of the land next door as we think about the opportunity to monetize these sites.
Some of it is going to be a land sale and in certain circumstances we'll certainly evaluate whether it makes sense for us to build box space given how strong the demand is next to that.
So I think that was another important part of that as some -- as at least one asset moved from on hold into CIP.
We continue to make progress on asset sales.
We've talked about it the monetization of non-income-producing assets for several years and I think it's been an area of disappointment internally that it has taken so long but the fourth quarter was certainly a highlight for us both in terms of what we got sold as well as certain projects where a portion was sold and then a portion moves into CIP and may end up being space that we develop over the next several years.
Your next question comes -- is a follow-up from the line of Alex Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just going to Brazil quickly.
Obviously we heard from GGP that potentially they may do a direct investment down there.
You guys have been pretty clear in the past that you would only execute through Sonae Sierra.
So assuming -- just want to confirm one that is still the case; two how you think about Brazil especially given that there were few minority interests where the company is sold out of or Sonae Sierra sold out of.
So should we expect more dispositions from down there? And then what should we expect on the acquisition/development frontline? Should we expect more of that or just a steady-state? Well first we are only interested in investing in Brazil through our Sonae Sierra entity.
We have a very strong partnership there.
We're actively involved in the operations of the company.
We have 154 I believe employees down there and David Paul and I are very active with our partners in Portugal and we're very pleased with the relationship.
So we would not be looking for direct investment opportunities in Brazil at this time.
Yes we've got a good team down there.
They're executing on the plan we were active late in the year in selling some nonprime assets.
I think that's part of the DDR mentality that we've been practicing for a number of years how we best position the portfolio as a whole for long-term growth.
There are a lot of aspects to that that relate almost exclusively and directly to the operating platform but there's some of that that is on the investment side where we need to be redeploying capital out of what we believe to be slower growth investments and in the higher growth investments and so that's exactly what you saw with Sonae Sierra Brazil's announced dispositions in the latter half of the year.
And so I think you take that capital out of nonprime assets in that market.
And for Sonae Sierra Brazil that that largely is getting then reinvested into a couple greenfield developments that we have underway and in lease-up today.
We're also evaluating acquisitions in that market but that's certainly a challenging endeavor down there.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Truxillo with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a simple question first.
Do you think you will accomplish those leverage goals you laid out in the 5-year plan in the next 1.5 years given that if you give yourself credit for a run rate of EBITDA that would be consistent with recognizing a full year of your acquisitions? And then two if you do accomplish that goal given the work that you guys have done in improving the portfolio a greater percentage of prime assets large or unencumbered asset base much better balance sheet do you look at those metrics and compare yourselves to your higher-rated peers and think that you'll continue to move up kind of the credit rating spectrum? The first one will we accomplish the goals we've outlined? Yes we will.
I would like to give a more conservative answer but Dan gave me a dirty look.
So I think we can be very clear on that one.
As we built back credibility over the past couple of years an important part of that has been telling people what we were going to do and then executing on it not changing that plan not deviating from that not explaining here's why it was hard or this is what changed.
So I think we want to absolutely indicate that we continue down the path that we've outlined.
That includes the improved balance sheet the improved portfolio quality but also growth to the bottom line that you'll see more going forward and so I think we believe all that's achievable.
And to the second part yes we absolutely comp ourselves to more higher -- more highly rated peers.
We even further comp ourselves to the best of breed aspirational sort of peers in the industry as a whole.
And I think we've tried to be clear in our investor presentations that we're not done yet.
We're proud of the accomplishments over the past couple of years but we're not done yet.
And we do consistently reset those goals internally to make sure that we're challenged to continue to improve.
So I think for a long time the story was very clear and simple that we needed to get back to a consensus investment grade rating on our bonds.
Having achieved that it certainly doesn't mean we're done.
We do think over the next several years that there are additional steps to that.
I think Moody's positive outlook on our investment grade rating with the potential to move that a notch higher is a clear indication of that.
And we continue to look to make more progress on our leverage metrics and hope that those fixed income investors as well as the rating agencies recognize that and reward that with further upgrades over the next several years.
I would now like to turn the presentation back over to DDR management.
Thank you very much for joining us and we look forward to speaking with you with our first quarter results.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2013 DDR Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Janet and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Samir Khanal Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and President and CFO David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday this release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Samir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Over the past several quarters and most recently in our year-end review report we have openly articulated our aspirations to earn blue chip status in the REIT space and in the market generally.
According to the New York Stock Exchange and notwithstanding the requirements of market capitalization a blue chip is a corporation with a national reputation for quality reliability and the ability to operate profitably in good times and in bad.
As a management team we continue to execute our strategic plan and our focus remains on building and maintaining a high-quality organization that delivers consistent and compelling results across all business segments quarter-after-quarter and year-after-year.
Our shareholders can expect quality and reliability and with continued performance and discipline we are confident our strategic direction will lead to achieving our goals.
Now that we are a quarter into the year I would like to address what the market can expect from DDR today and going forward.
Operationally the market can expect us to not only lease more than 10 million square feet and raise occupancy as previously guided but to do so with minimal CapEx while raising rental rates achieving true organic growth and not playing the role of subordinate lender to retailers.
CAM charges will increase below the rate of inflation in an effort to operate more efficiently and give our tenants room to breathe as we optimize our portfolio-wide occupancy cost ratio and focus on the opportunity to raise rents.
Financially the market can expect us to continue to de-lever by growing EBITDA while funding acquisitions with discipline and primary consideration given to NAV accretion although we realize that FFO cannot and will not be ignored.
Capital allocation decisions will continue to be evaluated on a risk-adjusted basis with consideration for alternative and best uses of our shareholders' capital.
In that regard I'm pleased to announce that our 900 000 square foot power center development in Charlotte anchored by Walmart and Ikea will open 100% lease this summer is on plan to generate an unlevered cash on cost return in excess of 10% and marks our first domestic ground-up development project in 4 years as we continue to carefully evaluate development opportunities on a risk-adjusted basis.
Our proactive redevelopment in Pasadena that included the recent buyout of Macy's is another example of our efforts to enhance long-term NAV as our current redevelopment pipeline is also trending at a 10% unlevered cash on cost return.
And our continued acquisition of prime power centers in top MSAs highlights our ability to creatively source attractively-priced acquisition opportunities many of which have enhanced our efforts to simplify our story by reducing the number of joint ventures.
Our capital recycling activity will remain focused on disposing of non-prime and non-income producing assets to fund future acquisitions of prime power centers.
While we have successfully taken advantage of the mispricing of power centers over the past several quarters we are beginning to see cap rates for our asset class tighten as more buyers see the value and stability offered by strong credit quality of cash flow from the retailers that continue to profitably win market share.
As our cost of capital continues to compress the market can expect us to remain active on the acquisition front but primarily on off-market transactions where we have proprietary governance rights minimal due diligence risk and where both our partners and our investors benefit from certainty of execution based on our familiarity with the assets.
David will discuss this in more detail in a moment.
With regard to the retail landscape the market can rely on this management team to stay intimately involved in the continued evolution of retailers their concepts and strategies and consumer trends and behaviors.
We will continue to invest in our travel budget to ensure we are staying in front of our retail partners understand their needs and growth aspirations and align our operations and portfolio to capitalize on these opportunities.
Whether it be bricks and mortar Internet or omni-channel we are obsessed with the retail business and its evolution and will continue to follow even closer than ever before.
Organizationally and culturally the market should continue to expect us to reward excellence based on performance not simply tenure.
Our organization has been built on merit and we will continue to place an emphasis on excellence as we recruit develop and retain talent.
We will remain very active in the industry via NAV and ICSC and involved in supporting our business as it relates to significant political issues like Main Street Fairness FIRPTA and compressive tax reform.
Regarding our communications efforts we will continue to be accessible to both the buy side and the sell side for conferences non-deal roadshows and personal visits and our disclosure and transparency will continue to evolve to meet the needs of the investment community.
We will continue to pursue social media opportunities and invite all stakeholders and constituents to follow us on Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Pinterest and ddr.com where we provide fresh crisp and most importantly relevant content that not only highlights our company but speaks to our business and the trends we are seeing in the market on a macro level.
Additionally we are cognizant of our obligation to corporate social responsibility and we have taken action to ensure our efforts are aligned with best practices and recognized by all key stakeholders.
You can learn more about our corporate social responsibility efforts by visiting www.ddr.com/csr.
Lastly we continue to invest in technology to efficiently improve our relations and day-to-day interactions with our tenants.
We are developing a tenant customer service portal through our website and our internal lease 360 program through Salesforce allows us to collectively understand a 360-degree view of the entire customer experience with each merchant in our portfolio.
In summary we continue to reach for blue chip status at all levels of the organization with every initiative in both our actions and results.
We understand that such status must be earned over time and is predicated on consistent and reliable financial and operational performance and being a prudent steward of shareholder capital.
At DDR we are a progressive and forward-looking organization in all that we do and we remain committed to achieving our stated goals for the benefit of all stakeholders.
I will now turn the call over to Paul.
Thank you Dan.
Over the past 4 years we have leased over 40 million square feet of space to high-credit best-in-class retailers dramatically improving our portfolio of tenant mix and credit profile and contributing to significant gains in our leased rate and same-store NOI.
As a result of the progress we've made one might think there is less obvious vacancy remaining in our portfolio and there is.
But strong platforms don't need obvious vacancy to produce continued gains.
When you review our embedded organic growth driven by an improved leased rate across the portfolio continued improvement in deal spreads a higher retention rate our ability to purposely create vacancy through downsizings and lease terminations and the advantageous supply and demand dynamic the story gets even better.
These trends and market conditions when combined with our platform will result in occupancy gains and organic growth similar to the stellar numbers that we have achieved over the past few years.
And with the continued improvement in asset quality and the integration of recent acquisitions these results may exceed prior performance.
Starting with our embedded growth as discussed on prior calls our 94.4% leased rate is a forward-looking metric.
Within this 94.4% is 1.2 million square feet of currently signed but not yet rent-paying leases which doesn't include renewals or new leases for currently occupied spaces that will vacate in the future.
So based on current leasing velocity we are very optimistic about our ability to add to our leased rate.
Over the past few years we increased our leased rate by 160 basis points and fully expect to achieve a comparable increase over the next few	years.
Occupancy gains through lease-up is the most obvious opportunity for future organic growth and importantly we will achieve this improvement in leased rate through an equal amount of lease-up in our big box and shop space.
If the economy continues to grow as projected it may even be possible to exceed expectations particularly in the shop space category.
Some of you have expressed concern that our box space of greater than 10 000 square feet is currently 97% leased leaving no room for improvement in this important category.
Please know that we confidently expect to achieve a leased rate of least 98.5% in this category representing over 1 million square feet of new rent-paying space and it is important to note that pricing power in the market resides within the 10 000 square foot plus units which enhances the growth prospects for this portion of the portfolio.
Similarly our shop space of units less than 10 000 square feet is approximately 86% leased.
We have increased the leased rate in this category by 130 basis points over the first quarter of 2012 and that gives me great confidence that we will achieve a leased rate of over 90% in this category.
This million square feet of new rent-paying shop space will be a result of lease-up fewer move-outs and the consolidation of space for a variety of aggressively growing retailers such as Shoe Carnival Five Below Carter's Ulta Tilly's Rue21 Vitamin Shoppe and others.
Deal spreads are another key component of the story.
Just as we've turned the negative spreads of a few years ago to positive new deal spreads of 10.7% at 100% and 11.9% on a pro rata basis in the first quarter we expect continued improvement in new deal spreads.
Recapturing and marking historic leases to today's growing market ramp levels clearly provides yet another opportunity for continued organic growth.
While new deal spreads continued to improve so do our renewal spreads.
This was evidenced by our first quarter results where we achieved renewal spreads of 7% at 100% and again even better on a pro rata basis at 7.5%.
This marks our highest renewal spread in over 4 years and is a great indicator of future rent per square foot growth.
With limited existing quality space available retailers are more concerned about losing a store than we are about getting a space back and retailers are unwilling to sacrifice long-term sales growth for short-term savings by relocating based on deal economics alone.
Sales and margin will always drive a good merchant's decision not real estate economics.
In addition to the improving renewal spreads we're projecting a year-end retention rate of 90% up from the low 80%s of just a few years ago.
As renewals require no downtime or CapEx this stabilized cash flow set the basis for growth while providing the opportunity to re-tenant where we deem appropriate.
Further illustrating the confidence retailers have in their business and their unwillingness to give up quality real estate 60% of our first quarter renewals were comprised of tenants exercising an option which is up significantly from 40% just 3 years ago.
Furthermore 75% of our total renewals for 2013 are already complete.
With this strong retention rate we're able to take a more strategic approach to leasing by recapturing target spaces to purposely create vacancy and re-merchandise centers with higher credit best-in-class retailers.
There are a variety of ways in which we're accomplishing this.
First we're pursuing termination opportunities with dark or poorly performing retailers resulting in termination fee income and re-tenanting at higher rents per square foot while creating additional traffic and strong co-tenancy for additional leasing opportunities.
For example we replaced FYE with Dick's Sporting Goods in 2 Salt Lake City location replaced Books-A-Million with Cost Plus in Charlotte and replaced A.C.
Moore and a local furniture operator with T.J.
Maxx and Golfsmith in Greensboro.
As the supply and demand metric continues to favor the landlord and our tenant open-to-buys continue to grow we expect these profitable re-merchandising opportunities to accelerate.
Additionally we continue to meet regularly with retailers on downsizing opportunities resulting in a more profitable rightsized merchant paying a higher rent per square foot plus the benefit of residual space which we can mark-to-market.
We are currently discussing downsizing opportunities with all 3  office products retailers and are making exciting progress in that area.
While it is difficult to quantify the amount of square footage that downsizings will ultimately represent due to the ongoing re-merchandising plans of some of our tenants we are committed to aggressively pursuing all opportunity in executing this strategy.
In summary from a growth and revenue perspective we are very excited about all that we have accomplished including the improvement to our portfolio quality and the current leased rate but we are far from finished.
Our operating platform coupled with the various growth prospects I've outlined collectively enhance our ability to deliver organic growth similar to the impressive numbers delivered over the past few years.
Given our strategic initiatives and a more positive macro environment there is the potential to exceed.
And I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $86 million or $0.27 per share for the first quarter 13% above last year.
Including non-operating items FFO was $82.5 million or $0.26 per share.
Non-operating items were primarily the noncash write-off of financing cost related to the refinancing of our unsecured revolving credit facilities and secured term loan as part of the maturity that occurred in January.
We are pleased to continue to upgrade the quality of our portfolio during the quarter with the acquisition of attractively-priced prime assets located in major MSAs and the disposition of non-prime properties and non-income-producing assets.
The prudent funding of investments continues as well which has significantly advanced our objective to improve the balance sheet.
We will continue to lower our cost of capital by extending duration improving our fixed charge coverage ratio and lowering leverage while also growing EBITDA through portfolio lease-up and external growth primarily off-market acquisitions and select redevelopment and expansion of our prime shopping centers.
We were net acquirers in the first quarter as we purchased 2 prime assets for $81 million in the major markets of Dallas and Oakland expanding relationships with high credit quality retailers such as Walmart Whole Foods T.J.
Maxx and PETCO.
Our joint ventures continue to provide an additional pipeline of unique acquisition opportunities as well and in late April we acquired our partner's 85% interest in 5 prime power centers located in the southeastern MSAs of Atlanta Tampa and Richmond for $94 million.
We have managed and leased centers for over 6 years and this low-risk investment was funded primarily with proceeds from asset sales and the issuance of $45 million of common shares in April.
The 5 prime power centers totaled 1.3 million square feet are currently 98% leased and are anchored by national credit quality tenants such as Walmart Target Costco Home Depot T.J.
Maxx Ross PetSmart Michaels and Fresh Market.
We have now acquired 9 prime shopping centers valued at $450 million from joint ventures since the beginning of 2012 as our proprietary pipeline of JV assets continues to be a key source for acquisitions as well as an attractive and efficient means to liquidity for our partners.
These recent acquisitions will not be encumbered by mortgage debt and are now included in our high-quality unencumbered asset pool.
Annualized NOI of the unencumbered asset pool has increased to a significant 13% from the first quarter of 2012.
Net investment activity has been funded with proceeds from asset sales as well as new common equity.
During the first quarter we accessed ATM program and issued 2.3 million common shares in an average price of $17.57 generating gross proceeds of $40 million.
Including April we have issued 4.8 million shares of common equity for $85 million in 2013 to fund our acquisitions.
We do not take equity issuance lightly and are very aware of its high cost.
And we would only consider further issuance if the investment was attractive enough to justify it.
We continue to sell non-prime assets during the quarter with $46 million of dispositions amounting to $35 million at DDR's share.
We currently have $83 million in non-prime assets currently under contract for sale and this very active capital recycling strategy has significantly improved our portfolio and enhanced the credit quality of our cash flows.
During the first quarter we continued to opportunistically access attractively-priced long-term debt closing $1.2 billion of consolidated financings as we proactively refinanced our credit facilities and secured term loan well in advance of maturity.
These refinancings advanced our objectives to extend duration lower the cost of capital and reduce secured debt.
The new $815 million unsecured revolving credit facilities and $400 million secured term loan mature in 2018 and pricing was reduced by 20 basis points on average.
At the end of the quarter our weighted average consolidated debt duration was 5.2 years a significant improvement from 4.3  years at the end of 2011.
Looking at future capital needs we have less than $1 million in consolidated maturities and only $23 million of our share of unconsolidated maturities remaining in 2013 and no unsecured maturities until May 2015.
We also issued $150 million of 6.25% perpetual preferred equity in early April 25 basis points below the 6.5% preferred equity issuance in July of last year.
The proceeds were reused to redeem $150 million of our 7 3/8 preferred shares.
While the lower rate will provide significant annual interest savings in future years the overlap between the issuance of Class K shares and the redemption of Class H shares results in little of this benefit being recognized in 2013.
We continue to project 2013 operating FFO per share of $1.07  to $1.11 which at the midpoint represents 6% growth over 2012 one of the strongest expected growth rates in our sector.
While we are happy with the earnings outperformance this quarter we also acknowledge it is very early in the year and we are not adjusting guidance at this time as we continue to monitor operating performance transaction timing and size and capital market opportunities.
We remain focused on EBITDA and NAV growth through the lease-up of our portfolios selective redevelopment and development opportunities and off-market acquisitions.
We are confident that improvement in these metrics combined with our significantly improved balance sheet and lower cost of capital can create considerable incremental value for DDR shareholders.
At this point I'll turn the call back to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Samit Parikh with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Dan and David your recovery ratio and NOI margins have really improved year-over-year and continue to sort of move up.
And the CapEx is really remaining low right now.
Can you sort of just explain how you feel those will move going forward for the remainder of the year? Yes.
I would certainly agree with you that we've seen improvements in that recovery ratio.
And I think it is very important to note there are a lot of these items that we'll talk about each quarter in terms of improving portfolio quality higher credit quality of cash flows but the question then comes up how does that actually flow into results? And it doesn't happen immediately but I do think it's exactly why the improved trend you're seeing in those ratios has occurred and is sustainable on a go-forward basis.
It represents the sale of non-prime assets that usually have lower or declining recovery ratios it represents the acquisition of higher quality assets with higher occupancy and with better credit quality of cash flows.
And so you do see a sustained improvement in those metrics that doesn't happen immediately when those transactions are made but over time as those results flow into our overall operating results you'll certainly get that improvement in recovery ratios that is reflective of portfolio quality.
It's also reflective of the continued lease-up that we've had that certainly benefits those results as well as overall just a landlord-favorable environment where we have been able to put less CapEx into deals and yet it still generated record leasing volumes and industry-leading leasing volumes.
And so I think some of the metrics you highlighted are particularly important because they aren't the top headline metrics when you think about the focus that gets paid to a same-store NOI and the focus that gets put on re-leasing spreads but a lot of these improvements in real operating stats lower CapEx lower bad debts higher recovery ratios are extremely important to the overall economics of deals and the overall economics for our portfolio.
And we do think this improvement is sustainable going forward and we do you think there can be more to come on those items.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if there was any more news on the DDR Blackstone group acquisition of 7 shopping centers? Craig we -- as you know we continue to be active in the market.
And we have a terrific relationship with Blackstone and we are pursuing that opportunity with them.
Lots of things can happen in these transactions and which is why we have hesitated to announce anything historically until it's closed particularly in the markets -- in the market that we're in today.
But I think it's safe to assume that because of our relationship with Blackstone and the fact that the assets in question are prime power centers that we absolutely have interest and we are pursuing it in conjunction with Blackstone in a structure similar to the structure that we established with them last year with the EDT acquisition.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You opened with talking about your aim to be a blue chip and I had a kind of follow-up on that.
Where do you think kind of among all those different elements the biggest gap where DDR is right now versus the blue chip group that you're looking to join? And is there anything you're looking to do to narrow that gap on an accelerated basis whether -- I don't know whether you think it's kind of the non-prime share of your portfolio or your leverage or other factors? Or is it really just something that's going to have to take time and there's really no way for you to accelerate it? Yes.
I think you're exactly right Paul.
I mean the way we accelerate is by performing on a consistent basis quarter-over-quarter year-over-year and it's very difficult to accelerate it otherwise.
Now there's some absolute blue chip companies certainly in our mind that have very extensive non-prime portfolios but yet they still perform on a very very high level and on a very consistent basis.
So I think with us it's time.
I think the market has appropriately looked at DDR as a show-me story and that we needed to prove a lot in regard to our strategy and then the execution of the strategy.
I think we've come a long way in doing that.
But I do think it will take more time for us to achieve that status.
And I think it's not an operational metric as much as it's -- or any 1 operational metric.
I think it's giving good guidance it's delivering on what we say we're going to be delivering it's being a prudent steward of shareholder capital over an extended period of time.
And I think it -- you sort of merge into it.
I don't think -- I think it's a process.
I don't think it's an event.
I don't think you wake up one day and you say "Geez we're blue-chip and the market thinks we're blue chip." I think it's going to happen over time and we're very focused on that and -- which is one of the reason why we're so disciplined in our approach to our strategic plan and we're very careful on how we articulate the message to the market because we just don't want to disappoint.
So I think time will help us and obviously in that period of time our consistency of performance would be the quintessential element I think in order for us to be successful.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question.
As occupancy in the portfolio continues to rise here I guess the space that's left to lease is a little more challenging space to lease overall.
And Dan you mentioned that we should expect to see lower CapEx in the future and this quarter I recognize it's just one quarter but we've seen net effective rents for new leases down relative to 2012 both landlord work and tenant allowances are up slightly.
But this space is more difficult to lease.
Can you just help reconcile the view that landlord CapEx will decrease? I would think it might go the other way? Yes Todd this is Paul.
We feel very good about how we controlled CapEx on our new deals and will continue to.
You're always going to see a little volatility a little fluctuation quarter-by-quarter based on the deals that are made.
It's important when you look at that net effective rent page in the supplement to understand that we're trying to show the spread really if you will between the starting rent and the net effective rent which continues to be pretty tight.
Again always going to be fluctuations.
But if you look at a lower net effective rent the net number this quarter really is a function of lower starting rent and that clearly goes back to the type of deals that are made.
If you're making more box deals in a quarter you're going to have a lower starting rent than more small-shop deals.
So we feel very good about it.
You should expect to continue to see some volatility quarter-to-quarter but we have it under control and the trend is absolutely in our favor.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Schaffer with Sandler O'Neill.
So I was wondering given the strong open-to-buy tenants and the shortage of box space I was wondering if you can comment on the competitive nature of these tenants introducing bidding wars for the space.
Or if this -- are these open-to-buy numbers are just traditionally well over availability? There's clearly more competition and we've been talking about that really for about the past -- almost 2 years now Andrew.
Back 4 years ago I was very clear in mentioning that if somebody came and there was a taker for space we were all for it unless the filled space couldn't afford any more vacancy.
That has -- that's done a 180.
There's a lot of competition.
It doesn't always have to be similar lines of business for the retailers either.
You may have a hardlines retailer competing with a softlines retailer.
And that's exactly what we're seeing though.
There's -- these guys while they are being very careful about how they talk about their open-to-buys and their commitment to the Street to meet those open-to-buys there's clear competition.
And that's clearly what's driving the new deal spreads and what we see continuing to drive it for the next couple of years.
We've talked a lot on these calls about how the limited new development that will be done will not have any significant impact on these dynamics and that's still the case today.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question about the acquisition that were made during the quarter especially the buyout of your partners.
Was that portfolio already at 98% leased? Just kind of curious what the potential upside you see is on those assets? I think for those specific assets that we have managed for 6 years there's a good story about what we've accomplished in the venture over the past few years to get the occupancy that high.
But in line with Paul's comments earlier we still certainly look at highly-leased centers as still an opportunity not just a risk of losing that.
And so we're pleased that with our partner we were able to generate considerable lease-up in that portfolio but obviously because we're acquiring them we do think there's more to go over the next several years as we see opportunities to increase rents and increase NOI in those centers.
I think one of the things also to keep in mind even at centers that are 97% 98% leased and we see this all the time is that there's always opportunities in good real estate.
That's why the quality of the real estate is so important on these acquisitions because we do have downsizing opportunities we do have tenants that will leave.
Do we have tenants that will leave? We don't even know who they are yet but they will.
And you really don't have a hard time backfilling that space and the mark-to-market opportunities are pretty exciting.
So whether it's a consolidation of small shop space because tenants come and go over time or downsizing of boxes and just making sure that the retail community knows that we are creatively looking at ways to expand some of those assets and to increase the NOI good things happen to good real estate.
And I think this is going to be another example of that.
Yes.
And if we would have been buying a 98% leased portfolio from a third party I think there's a little more credence to the comment about a concern about downside versus upside.
But this is a situation where we've known these assets for a long time and I think gives us extraordinary confidence that Dan's exact comments are what we can experience over the next few years as we see potential further opportunities even in a portfolio that's highly leased like this one.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You've made good progress on the sale of your non-prime assets over time yet -- and I realize they only represent about 10% of the portfolio in terms of NOI.
But when I think about the number it's still 1/3 of your assets.
And Dan you were talking about making a point kind of a show-me story making a point to the Street.
Is there some reason you can't accelerate the disposition of that portfolio? Is it debt-related? Is it JV partnership-related something like that? Or is there some way to I guess drive that forward faster? Yes there are a few reasons several of which you mentioned Rich.
And I think first the perspective overall that's important to have is we have sold dramatically more than anyone in this sector.
Over the past several years we have done the overwhelming majority of that through one-off transactions which can be slower at times or less press release-worthy but we believe do end up with better execution.
On the specifics of what's left in terms of the non-prime pool you're exactly right.
There are some wholly-owned assets that are tied up in debt pools that make that a challenge or make it economically unattractive to sell even if you'd like the underlying asset pricing.
There are other penalties that go along with that.
There are a number of assets in joint venture where it's simply not our decision.
However we do have some very thoughtful partners that have seen an improving pricing environment today and certainly are more active in pursuing the strategy we've talked to them about for a while in liquidating some of their non-prime assets.
And so the portfolio we bought in April was accompanied by a number of assets that we will not be buying that are going to market.
And so we expect to continue to make progress on that metric but not in a massive portfolio fashion.
More in the measured pace that we've gone about where you can continue to see progress every quarter but not just looking to do the massive portfolio deal.
We are encouraged by the sale environment where an improving CMBS market is particularly important for the sale of non-prime assets which is generally how those are financed.
And as you get a more and more attractive and aggressive CMBS market I think it only makes the environment more receptive to off-selling assets and so I think you'll continue to see us active on that front both on a wholly-owned basis and within our joint ventures.
Also I think some of the larger numbers too are the single-tenant assets and that -- and we do have some term issues there.
It's very difficult to sell assets today to a leveraged buyer who have with less than 10 years of term left on the lease.
We have a number of single-tenant assets in the 6 to 7 year some even fewer than that and these are assets that are doing extremely well.
So your faced with a question do you go and ask the tenant to renew their lease early which will cost you a lot of money? Or do you just hang in there knowing full well that they are going to exercise their options and they are going to renew the lease and then make the property immediately saleable? So those are discussions we have all the time Rich.
But the asset it's a large number of assets but they're often very very small assets rather relatively insignificant asset.
And as we -- as you noted in your comment represents roughly 10% of our NOI and declining each year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason White with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious when you look at acquisitions what role do demographics play? And do you have a threshold where you need to clear certain level demographics or is it really just part of the mosaic that drives you to make an acquisition or to turn one down? Well demographics are absolutely a part of the consideration.
They're not independent of all the other factors including performance of the asset tenant sales population trends things of that nature.
But the demographics are a decent sanity check.
The problem with the demographic reports that we see on a consistent basis is they take the ring approach not the market share not the trade area approach.
And when you look at centers that are typically our size it's easy to draw a ring and say this is the trade area but if you talk to the tenants and you ask them what their trade area is it's extraordinarily different.
No retailer just draws a circle.
That's why while we provide a retailer with some demographic information they typically ignore it.
I mean I could tell you and I'm sure Paul will confirm we were on the department store side of the business it was very of developers to show us demographic reports and trade area reports but we absolutely ignored them and did our own.
Because the retailer knows the market better than anyone who's just drawing rings.
So while demographics I think are interesting and I think they're a good sanity check they don't you a great story in a lot of cases.
We can point to an awful lot of very very very good centers where tenants make a lot of money in a light demographic area and we can also point you to a lot of terrible terrible centers in very high demographic urban areas or suburban areas.
So it really is on a case-by-case basis.
In other asset classes it's not the same.
In multi-family and residential even in office it's very different.
It's very different.
Demographics tell a much clearer story.
But we have so many diverse retailers who have so many proprietary trade areas and they know who the consumer is and how they reach their consumers.
And that -- it's a nice sanity check but it doesn't drive necessarily the decision because if it did that you'd buy a lot of very very bad assets in some high demographic areas.
And a lot of people are doing that.
Your next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just with the positive commentary on fundamentals occupancy heading to 98% on the box space and growing market rents and pricing power firming cap rates.
How far are we from more widespread development across the market? And how should we be thinking about this cycle versus the prior cycle? That's a great question Quentin and we get it.
People intuitively assume that when you have the situation we're in now with the supply and demand metric and just the open-to-buys continuing to grow that one would think that development's going to become more prevalent.
But it just hasn't for a number of different reasons.
Number one in our particular sector on a risk-adjusted basis it really doesn't make sense to take development risk when you can buy at the cap rates we're currently buying at.
So that's something that is -- it won't  last forever but it's something we should take advantage of while we can.
The one thing that people have to keep in mind about the development is that unlike other recessions where we came out the other side and there was massive cooperation from municipalities who were looking for tax revenue we're not seeing that now.
There are obviously some exceptions to that rule but the entitlement process today is still incredibly burdensome.
It takes an extended period of time it takes a massive amount of risk capital I mean millions not hundreds of thousands of risk capital and in many cases you may be forced to buy land that's unentitled.
And that's not something that we're interested in doing and I know it's not something that a lot of folks in our sector are not interested in doing.
The risk of buying unentitled land today is very very high.
So even if the numbers work even if the numbers work on a risk adjusted basis they may not be more compelling than redevelopment or acquisition and being a prudent steward of shareholder capital we have to pursue those other opportunities.
So I think you're going to see some new development like I mean the deal we're doing in Belgate's great and we have a few others that we'll look at but it's not going to be enough to move the needle and alter the supply and demand dynamic from the existing assets.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question is a follow-up from the line of Tayo Okusanya.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
This one is directly for Dan.
Dan earlier on you made a comment during the call about a potential to exceed and you're a man who chooses his words very carefully.
So I was just curious what you meant by that and where you saw the opportunities to actually exceed guidance.
Well I think there's a number of things going on in the market.
I mean if -- we have a lot of tailwinds right now in our sector.
And while we're very cautious we beat our FFO projection for the first quarter we beat our same-store NOI projection for the first quarter.
And if things continue we think that there's going to be opportunity for us to show more improvement in those areas than we had previously guided.
But it's early.
But it's early.
And while I think it's -- we just gave guidance in January and while first quarter was better than we had anticipated being and we don't see a particular slowdown in the second quarter we will wait and see what happens.
Because we think that in a very fluid economy like we're in today that being prudent and having some discipline is important.
That being said if things continue to go the way they're going we clearly have the opportunity to exceed our expectations in small shop leasing and that's something that could move the needle to some extent.
But we will wait and see and we will give more direction on that after -- at the second quarter call.
And you've heard it from us many times.
It's a long-term focus it's not a pure focus on 2013 FFO per share.
And so there are times and some of the initiatives that Paul talked about earlier with downsizing and with improving tenant quality that it could be actions we take on that actually caused some pressure on '13 and everyone would agree it's the right long-term thing to do which is absolutely our focus.
But we do want to make sure we have the flexibility to make the right long-term decisions.
And aren't just held to 1 specific year of FFO.
We've also -- we said in an earlier time I mean we would be disappointed if we only met our guidance on acquisitions and we're almost there now based on our annual guidance for acquisitions.
So we will exceed I would hope our acquisition guidance.
But again I don't want to put us in a position where we have to do done deals in order to prove a point.
So we will continue to pursue things the way we're pursuing them but we're very close.
We're very close to exceeding our guidance in acquisitions and I'd be disappointed if we don't exceed in that area for 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of David Wigginton with DISCERN Securities.
Inc</strong> Dan you mentioned in your remarks about the cap rates for you asset type tightening.
I was wondering if you might be able to give us a sense of the magnitude of tightening maybe on a year-to-date basis and whether that's accelerated over any period of time or if it's been just a gradual tightening.
And then maybe comment on potentially where you kind of envision the cap rates going from here.
If you've kind of tightened as much as we're going to tighten or if there is more tightening ahead of us.
Well I think for quality assets Dave we have seen 50 60 basis points of tightening over the last 6 or 7 months.
And I think there's a number of reasons for that.
One is I do think we were mispriced.
And markets are too smart to let that happen forever.
And I also think that the -- if you just look at retail results and the credit quality of cash flow who's gaining market share and who's losing market share our asset class is pretty attractive.
It doesn't have a lot of the pressures that some of the other asset classes have and people are recognizing that.
For example just the last 2 weeks I've seen 2 different offerings for funds to buy power centers where people are out trying to raise capital to buy power centers 1 of which I think is pretty far along  and 1 of which seems to have some positive momentum.
I haven't seen that in years.
I haven't seen that in years.
So there's more capital clearly looking to chase the credit quality of the cash flow that power centers represent and I think the flexibility that power centers represent because tenants do come and go.
And one of the things about power centers is they've proven to be incredibly resilient and occupancy levels while they did fall are right back to where they were and will be at peak levels if not exceed peak levels in the not-too-distant future.
So I think people recognize that.
I think a lot of people -- no one could argue that the superior investment in A malls and people I think have done that.
I think a lot of people are looking at the traditional grocers with some concern.
But then you look at the specialty grocers and you get very very excited.
And the specialty grocers are the people that are coming for our centers.
So as power centers are establishing themselves as a destination for specialty grocers now all of a sudden you go from just being mass merchandising to mass merchandising and grocers.
So I think it's just a much more attractive investment from a credit perspective from market share perspective and if you look at balance sheets clearly from a profitability perspective.
Your next question comes from the line of Tammi Fique with Wells Fargo.
I'm just following up on NOI growth again.
Obviously for the first quarter it came in above the guidance range for the year.
And in the guidance you said that it would be second half-weighted.
So I guess I'm just kind of curious to know should we see it accelerate at this point as we head into the second half or was there something that was pulled forward a bit? I was just wondering if you could give us any color on that.
And then I guess it relates to the move outs which was why the expectation was supposed to be lower in the first half.
And did you just not see those yet? Or was there again some type of delay? Sure.
Your point is a good one both on the outperformance for the quarters as well as a better-than-expected move out and bankruptcy situation for the first quarter of the year.
So I think that really did drive better performance than we had budgeted for the first quarter.
We still see a situation where the latter part of the year the fourth quarter particularly will be the strongest quarter for same-store NOI.
And you'll see an acceleration to that point in the interim.
Based on the way our budget looks today and our experience today we'd expect second and maybe even third quarter to be slightly lower than what the outperformance led us to in the first quarter.
But still we're encouraged by everything we see.
We're in a situation where I think we continue to be a bit ahead of budget on those metrics and we'll continue to update you as we do get further into the year and have greater confidence on how the whole year looks.
But what we're standing by today is noticeable outperformance from less move-outs and bankruptcies in the first quarter and some of that flows through to later in the year.
But we'd still say the next quarter or so will be a little bit slower.
And again as we mentioned earlier some of the best opportunities for us for long-term value creation might involve lease terminations downsizings  and other actions that could actually create a little short-term pressure.
But again long-term significant opportunity to create value.
And at this time we have no further questions.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q2 2013 DDR Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded and now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Samir Khanal Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and President and CFO David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Samir.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us.
As I mentioned on our previous calls our goal is to provide reliable financial and operational performance by leveraging a strong operating platform focused on quality assets and being a prudent steward of shareholder capital regardless of the economic environment.
Even though the last few months have been choppy on a macro basis we are achieving our stated goal of operational consistency and reliability.
Not only do our second quarter results underscore the stability and strength of our portfolio but when looking back on our historical operating results and trends this story is even more conclusive.
I'd like to take a moment to share with you some statistics.
We have enjoyed 17 consecutive quarters of leased rate gains 13 consecutive quarters of positive blended leasing spreads and 10 consecutive quarters of blended leasing spreads greater than 5%.
We've also enjoyed 13 consecutive quarters of positive same-store NOI growth and 12 consecutive quarters of same-store NOI growth of 2% or greater.
Importantly in regard to tenant demand for prime assets we have posted 17 consecutive quarters of leasing volume in excess of 2 million square feet.
We pay particular attention to leasing volume and the CapEx associated with such volume since it provides an excellent barometer of market trends and prevents any single deal or corresponding CapEx from artificially skewing the numbers to the positive or the negative.
Therefore when you have leased 44 million square feet over the past 17 quarters as we have it obviously tells us the story.
From the transactional and financing perspective the consistent execution of our capital recycling program has led to 16 consecutive quarters of growth in the percent of NOI generated by our prime portfolio helped greatly by 18 consecutive quarters of nonprime assets sales and 8 consecutive quarters of prime power center acquisitions.
As we continue to opportunistically access the credit markets we have decreased our weighted average interest rate for 6 consecutive quarters.
And while we maintain a conservative payout ratio to provide flexibility for external growth opportunities we have increased or maintained our quarterly dividend for 15 consecutive quarters and have continually left plenty of dry powder for future movement.
Simply put amid the marketplace noise and speculation about potential headwinds our results have been reliable and consistent.
While we are pleased with the results of the quarter and encouraged by the longer-term trends we are not surprised.
We will continue to execute on our strategic objectives and we are obsessed with delivering consistent and reliable guidance and results while capitalizing on market opportunities in an effort to provide sustainable and long-term value for our shareholders.
At this point I'd like to take a moment to discuss our view of the potential impact of the few macro factors that have been dominating headlines lately.
Over the past several weeks there's been considerable chatter regarding the interest rate environment and what it means for REITs as well as the consumer.
The market's initial reaction to the Fed's comments regarding tapering led to increased volatility in the capital markets and there's now also speculations that consumer spending may be softening based on recent monthly retailer sales reports primarily from tenants that specialized in the ready-to-wear category.
First in regard to potential modest interest rate increases and what it means for our business the reality is that an increase in interest rates for the right reasons namely economic growth is not a threat to our business.
In fact it is a positive for the retail sector.
Retailers have been operating in a price neutral to price deflationary economy for as long as we can remember and would benefit greatly from a reasonable inflationary environment.
While rents per square foot within the current environment continue to climb the growth could be more substantial with modest inflationary pressure since rent as a percent of occupancy cost is calculated by using actual or projected sales which would benefit from an inflationary lift.
The challenge of course is defining the level of which inflation is positive versus the line that crosses into negativity.
However based on recent trends we have plenty of room to benefit before the retail environment becomes overinflated.
Second in regard to retail sales ratings it's important to note that the vast majority of retailers no longer report sales on a monthly basis and therefore the monthly information that is available is no longer a reliable barometer for broader performance in the sector.
Retailers have become masters at highlighting the weather calendar shifts or inventory initiatives as elements have impacted the store monthly numbers to a level that question relevance.
Moreover it would be shortsighted to draw any conclusion about consumer demand based on the seasonally low summer sales months coupled with a very conservative inventory environment.
Back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons are fast approaching and it would be unwise to lead to conclusion prior to witnessing the sales trends during the peak seasons.
And lastly with regard to recent volatility in the Capital Markets and REIT share prices it has had absolutely no impact on the fundamentals of our business.
And as you can see it is not reflective in our operating results.
So our results continue to be consistent and reliable as we aggressively execute our plan and pursue our management and investment thesis.
And while there is considerable market volatility that persists our product continues to prosper and many of the perceived negatives within the market may actually be beneficial and further fuel our positive performance.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Paul.
Thank you Dan.
As you saw in our earnings release last night we achieved another quarter of consistent momentum in operating results driven by strong deal volume and corresponding growth and leasing spreads without the need to buy the growth with excessive CapEx.
While I will not waste your time recapping the metrics outlined in our press release which obviously speak for themselves I would like to bring your attention to an important trend developing across our portfolio.
Contrary to prerecession trends where our portfolio was dominated by joint venture assets that were predominantly of higher quality than our wholly owned bucket the portfolio has now flip-flopped and the dominance of the wholly-owned bucket is now driving the business.
Our wholly-owned portfolio has transformed into high-quality largely unencumbered prime power centers that remain in peak demand from growing retailers.
This crossover is seen by looking at a number of statistics but most striking is that our combined pro rata leasing spreads in the second quarter were 8.6% as compared to the overall spread of 7.9%.
This 70 basis point lift enjoyed by the wholly-owned portfolio represents the reversal of historic trends and is our third consecutive quarter of pro rata outperformance.
In addition when the previously announced acquisition of 30 power centers from Blackstone closes 75% of our overall portfolio GLA will be wholly owned up from 55% just 3 years ago.
With full control over a significantly larger percentage of our portfolio and the further significant improvement of our quality metrics we gained both additional leverage and further negotiating flexibility when dealing with our retail partners.
As a result we expect the wholly-owned operating story to continue its outsized growth going forward.
Given this improvement in the quality and control of our portfolio the current supply-and-demand dynamic in the sector and the overall retail climate I would like to address our leased rate going forward and a significant amount of organic growth that remains.
With our increasing quality and control we are confident that a full occupancy level of 96.5% is achievable leaving almost 200 basis points of additional growth through lease up and even when that number is within sight we will continue to proactively create growth opportunities through terminations downsizings and consolidation of space.
This opportunity continues to be fueled by a landlord-friendly supply-and-demand dynamic and those rare retailers that struggle to remain relevant to the consumer in a very positive market.
Retailer distress no matter how limited when combined with our quality portfolio on leasing platform continues to create value-add opportunities within prime assets that we aggressively pursue on a regular basis and add considerably to the growth story.
For example with Toys "R" Us and Babies "R" Us over half of our contracts are ground leases with rents typically 50% to 75% below markets.
We are currently in the process of recapturing 2 Babies "R" Us locations and replacing them with Nordstrom Rack Old Navy and Gap outlet with rental increases between 100% and 370%.
In each case not only are the economics are attractive they dramatically improve the tenant lineup NOI credit quality and obviously the overall value of the assets.
In regards to Barnes &amp; Noble we are currently in a position to recapture 14 of our 25 locations over the next 24 months.
As you know Barnes has great locations in our portfolio with all of them being in prime centers that average 98% leased.
The list of retailers interested in these assets includes Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Nordstrom Rack T.J.
Maxx and Sprouts Farmers Market to name a few and we anticipate rental increases between 30% and 50% with very reasonable CapEx.
As for the office supply category we've completed or finalizing downsizing the 10 locations.
While individual results vary we are achieving rental increases of 60% on the residual space 20% on the downsize space and have secure 10-year terms with the now rightsized office-supply retailer.
More importantly we maintain close dialogue with both OfficeMax and Office Depot regarding a post-merger strategy for their locations in our portfolio.
While the merger is not final we are confident that we will recapture up to a dozen locations many of which will include termination fees paid by the tenant and additional mark-to-market opportunities.
It's important to note that of the 12 locations targeted to recapture all are in prime assets.
These are just a few examples of the opportunities we see for currently leased space.
Good things happen with good real estate and with the continued improvements in our overall portfolio of quality I'm extremely confident in our ability to continue to add value beyond the obvious lease up of vacancy and further expand the organic growth story we have seen over the past 13 quarters.
Finally I know Dan will speak about our Investor Day in a moment.
But rest assured we will have numerous members of our leasing team in attendance and available to discuss the trends I just mentioned or any others that may cross your mind.
I encourage you all to join us and feel free to ask questions about whatever interests you regarding the leasing development and retailer environments.
And I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $86 million or $0.27 per share for the second quarter 8% above last year.
Including nonoperating items FFO was $80 million or $0.25 per share.
Nonoperating items were primarily related to redemption of our Class H preferred shares.
We're extremely active in the capital markets in the second quarter as we raised over $1 billion to fund the acquisition of prime shopping centers.
We raised $784 million of common equity and $300 million of unsecured debt at a yield-to-maturity of 3.4% representing the lowest unsecured nonconvertible bond rate in the company's history.
We also issued $150 million of 6.25% perpetual preferred equity in early April 25 basis points below the coupon on our preferred equity issuance in July of last year.
The proceeds were used to redeem $150 million of our 7 3/8% preferred shares.
Given the strength of the capital markets we were compelled to over-equitize our first half 2013 investments to make sure we were well positioned for more volatile markets.
The prudent funding of recent investment has led to the continued improvement of credit metrics and our balance sheet advancement is now well-recognized by all of the major rating agencies which most recently -- which was most recently exemplified by Fitch's upgrade of our bonds to investment grade.
Despite meeting our strategic objective to reach consensus investment grade we will continue to take steps to lower debt to EBITDA extend duration and improve our fixed charge coverage ratio in order to further enhance our credit rating.
At the end of the quarter our weighted average consolidated debt maturity was 5.4 years continued improvement from 5.2 years in the first quarter and significant expansion from the 4.3 years at the end of 2011.
Looking at future capital needs we have no maturities remaining in 2013 and no unsecured maturities until May 2015.
We continue to upgrade the quality of our portfolio through the acquisition of attractively priced prime power centers located in major MSAs.
Our joint ventures continue to provide a pipeline of unique acquisition opportunities as we acquired our partners' 85% interest in 5 prime power centers located in Atlanta Tampa and Richmond that we have managed and leased for over 6 years.
This low-risk investment was funded with proceeds from asset sales and the issuance of $45 million of common equity in April.
The 1.3 million square foot portfolio is 98% leased and the centers are anchored by national credit quality tenants such as Walmart Target Costco Home Depot T.J.
Maxx Ross PetSmart Michaels and the Fresh Market.
As previously disclosed we are also under contract to acquire our partners' 95% interest in a portfolio of 30 prime power centers from our existing join venture with Blackstone for $1.46 billion.
The acquisition was funded with $739 million of new common equity $146 million of proceeds from preferred equity and mez loan repayments $398 million of assumed mortgage debt with a weighted average duration of 4 years and $300 million of new 10-year unsecured debt.
The 95% leased portfolio of prime power centers primarily located in top 40 MSAs totals 11.8 million square feet and features top tenants such as T.J.
Maxx Kohl's PetSmart Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Best Buy Dick's Old Navy and Lowe's.
And these acquisitions will provide us the opportunity to further simplify our structure by reducing our joint ventures by 20% and enhancing EBITDA quality through the conversion of shorter-term fee and interest income in the longer duration property level cash flow with strong growth potential.
These transactions will convert approximately $26 million in fee and interest income in the long-term property NOI with growth potential enhancing our net asset value.
Additionally 26 assets will be added to DDR's high-quality unencumbered asset pool increasing the NOI of this pool by over 15% the highest level on our history.
We anticipate that the Blackstone transaction will close in the fourth quarter.
Subsequent to second quarter end we also acquired 2 prime regional shopping centers in Orlando and Atlanta for an aggregate $259 million.
The assets are 99% leased and enjoy average trade area household income of $82 000 and population of 382 000 people and have weighted average rent per square-foot that is approximately 15% greater than the prime portfolio indicating the highly desirable and dominant shopping centers.
Winter Garden Village is a 1.1 million square foot market-dominant regional power center in Western Orlando that features high credit quality tenants such as Target Lowe's Marshalls HomeGoods Best Buy Ross Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Sports Authority Staples PetSmart World Market Old Navy and Ulta.
In addition to already being one of the top power centers in all of Florida Winter Garden Village will also benefit from additional traffic in future years as Florida Hospital has purchased 58 acres adjacent to the shopping center for the construction of a medical campus.
Cumming Town Center is a 300 000 square-foot prime power center in Northeast Atlanta.
The assets sits in close proximity to Cumming Marketplace of 650 000 square-foot power center also owned by DDR allowing us to further dominate a strong Atlanta submarket.
The fully leased center features Dick's T.J.
Maxx HomeGoods Best Buy Staples Old Navy and PETCO.
Both assets were acquired from a strong DDR relationship were a certainty of our execution in a short timeframe allowed for the purchase of 2 high-quality assets.
These 2 acquisitions were funded from excess proceeds from a large equity issuance in May the assumption of mortgage debt and recently closed and in-process asset sales.
Our capital recycling activity remains robust on a disposition side as well.
We sold $64 million of nonprime assets in the second quarter and have an additional $138 million of nonprime assets currently under contract for sale.
Since the beginning of 2008 we've sold over 175 wholly-owned nonprime operational assets.
And as a result the remaining inventory of lower quality assets has shrunk considerably.
To address the smaller amount of nonprime candidates for disposition and the continued desire and opportunity to recycle capital in the high-quality assets we have reallocated internal resources to form a portfolio management department that is tasked with underwriting the portfolio to among other things identify the lowest tier of prime assets for future sale.
This process now enables us to further upgrade portfolio quality by formally distinguishing and disposing of those centers that either lie in suboptimal markets exhibit low growth over the medium term or carry greater risk due to tenancy or location.
Regarding guidance.
Operating results have exceeded our expectations for the first half of the year and we now feel that it's appropriate to raise our guidance for same-store NOI from 2% to 3% to at least 3% growth.
In addition operating transactional activity year-to-date encouraged us in May to raise our guidance for operating FFO per share to $1.08 to $1.11 implying growth of over 6% from 2012 at the midpoint.
We remain focused on the lease up of our portfolio redevelopment and selective development opportunities and off-market acquisitions which continue to provide any of the accretion and EBITDA and dividend growth in excess of our peer group.
At this point I'll stop and turn the call back to Dan for closing remarks.
Thank you David.
And before turning the call over to questions I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing the Investor Day we will be hosting on Thursday October 10 in Charlotte and let you know what you can expect from the event.
We have been actively soliciting feedback and suggestions from several of you regarding expectations for a productive efficient and interactive Investor Day format.
As a result the day will not be overly scripted.
You will have full access to our deep and talented senior management bench and you will see firsthand how we've allocated capital to create value in the Charlotte market over the past 22 months to creatively sourcing acquisitions and discipline development.
The start -- the day will start with brief management presentations and updates to our strategic plan from David Paul and myself but will also include the involvement of our Chief Investment Officer Mark Bratt; our Executive Vice President of Capital Markets Luke Petherbridge; our Senior Vice President of Finance Matt Lougee; and our Senior Vice President of Corporate Operations Joe Tichar.
Additionally we will have an interactive panel discussion with our Chief Accounting Officer Christa Vesy; our Senior Vice President of Leasing Bryan Zabell; our Senior Vice President of Retail Partnerships Bill Kern; and our Senior Vice President of Development Chris Erb; and our Vice President of Capital Markets Scott Henderson.
During this panel you will have full access and the ability to ask any questions you would like.
After the panel discussion we will tour our recent acquisitions and recently completed development project in Charlotte and conclude the day with a cocktail hour and dinner during which you will have unlimited access to our entire management team.
And it's been our experience that the less scripted the event the more informative it is for you and providing you the opportunity to pursue your thoughts directly with our team is our goal.
We are proud of the team we have assembled and will ensure that you have the opportunity to meet and interact with the folks that run the business on a day-to-day basis.
We look forward to seeing you in Charlotte in October and welcome your additional suggestions regarding format and content for the event.
At this point operator I'd like to open up the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Alexander Goldfarb from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on property tax.
In the apartments especially with folks with a lot of Sunbelt exposure they have been talking about some pretty healthy double-digit property tax increases.
Curious what you guys are seeing on the property tax front and if you think that some of these increases may be outpacing the tenants' ability to absorb them? Well we haven't seen any major issue at this point on the property tax side.
I think it's important to note that this is always a trailing analysis just in the way that the taxes are reset.
And when you think about the significant hit that property values in the shopping center sector took versus the extreme resiliency of the multifamily sector I think you can see why in a lot of markets even though realtime data would indicate very strongly that property values are increasing the trailing numbers that municipalities are looking at in resetting values is generally much more favorable for our ability to keep property tax as low.
So we're not seeing anything significant on that front.
We take an active approach internally to make sure we're appealing that on a very regular basis to lower taxes which really just benefits our tenants that eventually should benefit us.
But we take an active approach to try to keep those costs as low as possible and I think you see that show up all-in extras whether it's CAM or taxes and what we pass through to our tenants.
The next question comes from Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> When I look at the average size of the shopping centers in terms of dispositions versus acquisitions they're almost 3x as large for the acquisitions.
I know you've spoken in the past about the greater opportunity for value-add on these larger centers of redevelopment.
I'm just wondering is there a sweet spot range that you look for your community shopping centers to be that sort of help aid that process of redevelopment? Well historically Craig we want to remain -- we want to be flexible and obviously it depends on what the story is whether it's a core assets or a core-plus asset or a value-add asset a lot will depend on how we look at it.
But if you really go back and take a look we have significant control and significant flexibility and value-add opportunities.
We like to see 200 000 to 250 000 square feet of owned GLA.
That has been something that is always been sort of in the back of our minds something that we've looked at as a good number.
It's not a hard and fast number but it's a good sanity check when you want to deal with what is the relevance of your asset in any given market.
Obviously the smaller the asset the less relevant it is.
So at 200 000 to 250 000 square feet of owned and as typical on the retail sector you always have anchor stores whether they be department stores off-price stores home improvement stores that add another a couple of hundred thousand square feet at least to those centers.
We can get up to 400 000 or 500 000 square feet in total.
That seems to be a good number on the relevance scale for what we're looking to do and how we're looking to proceed.
One of the things we like obviously about the asset class and the size that is -- we talked about it as the flexibility.
And when you see centers that are 700 000 800 000 square feet typically what comes with those is 70 80 90 acres.
And those 70 80 90 acres give you a lot of flexibility to be nimble in a very fluid retail environment.
So your observation is not by accident.
We are absolutely focused on larger centers.
They give us maximum flexibility and greater value-add opportunity and have a more impressive cumulative average growth rate going forward.
And what you see in the supplement doesn't even capture all the activity given that the Blackstone transaction that has a number of extremely large centers has not closed as well as the 2 additional assets that I mentioned that average.
About 700 000 square feet apiece and so I think you'll only see that spread accelerate in the second half of the year as we sell more smaller assets and we've made great progress at acquiring some much more significant assets in terms of their critical mass and tenancy as well as land for future opportunity.
The next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just curious with regard to the investment environment there seems to be a lot of product available and you've certainly been acquisitive both from third parties and from within the joint venture portfolio.
I was just wondering how large is the company's appetite here and what do you think the ideal size of the company is long term? It's really driven opportunity by opportunity whether it's the constant flow of packages you get from brokers or where our greater focus is the off-market sourcing of activity through relationships that we have.
We're not focused on -- this is how much bigger we need to get.
We're obviously very focused on making sure we grow prudently.
I think we along with much of the sector but DDR is a standout some ways learn some very important lessons about prudent due diligence and prudent growth and we are very much wedded to those concepts.
So we will cast an extremely wide net in looking at a broad set of acquisitions.
But there's no need on our part to grow the most recent acquisitions.
The 2 that just recently closed were 2 extremely high-quality centers one that we knew well in a submarket of Atlanta where we already have a presence and one that really is one of the absolute best power centers in the entire Southeast the Winter Garden Village in Orlando.
And so I think for assets like that we're going to be very active but price is important.
So we need to be able to make sure that the pricing works for us both on going-in basis as well as on a growth over the next 5 to 10 years basis.
And so there is a considerable of focus on the opportunity to improve the portfolio of quality further and make additional investments but there's no need.
We certainly think we are large enough by a significant factor to be very relevant to retailers.
We are large enough by a considerable factor to be relevant to investors.
And so we don't have to get bigger but I do think as we've outlined over the past year or so we do still see an opportunity where in general power centers are more attractively priced than other types of shopping centers.
And so we have been active in selling some smaller products some single tenant products and grocery-anchored products and just some smaller market products and reallocating that into select acquisition opportunities.
And there've been a few that we've been excited about and we've been blown out of the water by the pricing but there have been announcement that we have been able to secure some very high quality new assets.
And I think you'll see unless pricing gets much more aggressive we'll continue to be active on that front but very prudent in both underwriting and funding.
I think the other thing that's important to note Todd is if you really look to what's happened to the company over the last several years we've gotten smaller but really in the retail community we've gotten more relevant because the quality of the assets have gone up.
So I think from our perspective David's right I mean there's a certain size I think you need to be to be relevant to retailers.
We've long since passed that.
But as the company has actually gotten smaller we've become more relevant with retailers because of the asset quality improvement and the ability to provide growth opportunities for growing retailers.
So I don't think there's a right number how big the company should be or shouldn't be at this point in time.
But I do think there is a right type of asset that we should own to remain relevant and that's what we are very focused on.
The next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just sort of following up on the growth question longer term.
At your last Investor Day in 2011 you talked about long-term same-store NOI growth for your portfolio in the 1.5% to 2% range.
As you've obviously seen closer to the sort of 3% to 4% range in the last couple of years I'm wondering if that longer-term outlook has changed sort of in terms of the ability for your portfolio to generate growth over time and especially as your portfolio has changed? Well yes.
I mean we have -- we do have a different view of that because if you'll recall the last Investor Day Christy there were a lot of execution -- there's a lot of execution risk and our ability to get the type of portfolio we wanted to put together.
There really was no guarantee we've been able to sell the bottom tier of the portfolio which was obviously a growth drag and there was no guarantee that we would be able to afford to acquire what we wanted to acquire in order to substantially increase our growth profile.
Today as we look at our portfolio obviously when you get the full occupancy which is nowhere near at this point as Paul mentioned it's going to have an impact.
But today today we're very comfortable in the 2.5% to 3.5% same-store NOI growth range for the foreseeable future.
Not only is that because of the lease-up opportunity but because of some of the consolidations determinations the buyouts that we're doing with tenants some of store closures some of the downsizing.
So all those things are adding to great growth opportunities.
As you know we don't include redevelopment on our same-store NOI numbers although they do end in the numbers from a results perspective.
But we do -- we are in a position where we have a much higher quality portfolio.
The demand dynamic is still way out of whack as far as demand and supply.
So we are driving the rents.
And we're very comfortable being at a 2.5% to 3.5% going forward when we were at 1.5% to 2.5%.
But it was a very different company back then and it was a very different portfolio.
I still think if we have that portfolio we would still be in that 1.5% to 2.5% range.
But thankfully we do not and we can comfortably look at more robust growth going forward.
The next question comes from Ki Bin Kim from Suntrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of question regarding same-store NOI.
First was it -- how is it impacted by Brazil? Second if you had the Blackstone assets fully consolidated what would that same-store NOI results look like? And last question you mentioned about looking at occupancy cost as -- looking at rent as a percent of total sales for retailers.
I know it's hard to get the sales data from the nail salon small shop tenant but given that a lot of your tenants are the big national public companies do you -- have you tracked the stat on what that occupancy cost looks like and maybe how that can trend going forward? Yes.
The couple of items regarding same-store NOI.
First for us it is important to note that we do spend a lot of time trying to make this a true same-store calculation.
And so we do have certain clear rules that we adhere to.
And also this is a cash calculation not GAAP.
So you give up something from that.
We do spend a considerable amount of time separating what is simply a re-tenanting from what is a major redevelopment.
And generally that's define by amount of CapEx that we've spent on it.
And so we do think we have a very legitimate and credible calculation.
And also one that just passes that simple sanity check of you report 3% same-store NOI growth then you get to 6% FFO growth for the year 8% FFO growth for the quarter.
Then I think it sort of passes that sanity check that it has to eventually flow to the bottom line if it's a legitimate calculation.
If we did include the redevelopment activity it would be significantly higher at least 100 basis points.
Regarding the specific items on Brazil given that Sonasier [ph] Brazil hasn't reported yet we can't say anything too significant on their specific results for the quarter.
But the impact on DDR's results was extremely insignificant in the 10-basis-point range of benefit.
And so no real impact at all from that standpoint.
A few years ago 2010 '11 it was a much bigger deal.
You were talking about mid- to high teens in Brazil and 1% in the U.S.
and you got a much greater contribution.
Today it is extremely insignificant in terms of its impact on that number.
The Blackstone portfolio is not at all reflected in the numbers not even our 5% because if you recall the requirements to make it truly comparable we're in a position where we had owned 0% stake in that portfolio looking back 1.5 years.
And so we just don't have -- or didn't think it was appropriate to include comparables staff even for the sub-equity stake that we had.
On a go-forward basis those assets next year will be and -- or in the next few quarters will be in and will be a driver.
Over the trailing 12 months including the Blackstone assets with the considerable lease up that happened in that portfolio that would have absolutely driven same-store NOI for DDR.
Overall up 25 basis points or so just because there was considerable mid- to high-single-digit growth within that portfolio.
And so that certainly would have helped and I think will help going forward but was not in the results this quarter for our definition of the term.
And finally on occupancy cost you're right to say that we don't have the results from everyone and it's not even just the nail salons or some of the locals.
Honestly we get it from a decent amount of those guys.
It's the nationals that have the market power oftentimes to not have formal reporting requirements and percentage rent requirements.
But whether we get the sales formally or because of our relationships we get them informally we do have a pretty good view on where occupancy cost is today in the high single digits 8-ish percent range from what we're aware off and we absolutely think there's room to grow that noticeably without impacting retailer profitability.
I'd like to add with something on the occupancy cost David hit on.
There's a couple of ways to look at it in terms of our portfolio we are right about 8% and clearly we could be north of 10%.
So there's room.
And I think that's the key when you look at occupancy cost and where retailers are today specifically the winning retailers there is absolutely room.
There's a broad spectrum of occupancy cost that are sustainable by the different retailers we deal with.
But very few of the retailers we deal with are stressed or at those levels where we see no more room for growth.
You have to look back I think prerecession rents et cetera and occupancy cost.
These guys wound up losing money on those rents.
They've made better deals over the past few years and we've seen them climb back close to prerecession levels.
But there's no stress that we're concerned about.
I mean obviously there is some select retailers that have -- that are struggling that have extraordinarily high occupancy cost and they are a problem.
But overall there's clearly room to grow the occupancy cost in our sector.
The next question comes from Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] occupancy targets 96.5% over time.
Just curious your spreads have been very consistently positive for quite some time here even -- particularly on the renewal spread side of things.
And just curious how you're balancing as you get closer that 96.5% how do you balance the...
[Technical Difficulty] the spread? Vince I'll answer what I think we've got.
Clearly we see a consistency of the spreads going forward and it's particularly the renewal spreads we're going to see that high single-digit that we've talked about for several quarters and we've seen consistent growth from that and that's not going to change.
You got to get right back to the supply-and-demand dynamic that we've talked about all the time.
There's extraordinary growth in the retail business and incredible lack of new supply and that's what's going to drive it.
So my concern is we get closer to the 96.5% you're going to see us do some very proactive take some very proactive steps as we continue to improve the quality of the portfolio.
I talked a little bit in my script about some of the space we look to recapture.
We're going to do that at significant improvements in spreads.
So we're going to see consistent double-digit in the new deal spread and high single-digit in the renewal spread even as we get closer to the 96.5%.
The next question comes from the line of Rich Moore from RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> It seems that it's in vogue recently to bail out of Brazil.
And I'm curious if you guys can give us an update on what you're thinking about Brazil and your whole investment there? Well as you know Rich Brazil has been a great investment for us.
We've done extraordinarily well.
The climate has clearly changed.
The operating assets continue to perform at a very very high level while the development program has crawl to a stop because the development projects have not produced at the level that we would have expected them to produce.
So our development has slowed down but we have 3 projects that we have to stabilize.
And it's going to take us a little longer to stabilize those than we thought it would probably an extra 12 months that we'll be coming online and stabilizing.
So when those come online and when they stabilize we will reevaluate the entire investment evaluate what we have going forward on an operating basis.
We'll evaluate where we are and the value that we may be able to garner from the development pipeline and then take a look to see what's the smartest move for us to make in Brazil.
I can't tell you -- I can't put dates around things because there was the reason why they call them emerging markets.
They move very -- in a very volatile way very quickly.
And -- but we are in that market aggressively.
We know what the opportunities are.
We are comfortable what the opportunities maybe and we want to make sure that we can maximize the value for our shareholders whether that's to stay or whether that's to leave.
But that's all on the table on a regular basis and we continue to evaluate it.
The next question comes from Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just to 2014 does it still feel like you're going to be a net acquirer into next year? Yes it does.
There's still product out there that we think is priced attractively.
We still are very disciplined in how we look at that.
We pass on a lot more than we acquire but we have access to product to continually to our joint ventures even though that's declining to some extent there still is plenty of product in that bucket that we have rights to and many of those assets obviously we're very fond of.
So we do feel very comfortably that in 2014 we will be a net acquirer.
That being said we will continue to call the portfolio.
As David said we have a team of folks looking at the bottom tier or even the prime assets at this point in time because we still feel it's a very very exciting time to recycle capital on our sector and we've been active at it we've been successful at it and that will continue.
So you will continue to see sales but I think in 2014 we will also be a net acquirer.
Yes and I think you're likely to see the same trend you've seen the past couple of years.
We're going to guide to numbers in January that we think are very reasonable and feasible and then we will evaluate the acquisition market through the course of the year.
We're obviously -- last year and this year you've seen us massively exceed the acquisition guidance that we provided simply because we saw attractive opportunities and access to reasonable capital.
So it's a constant focus for us.
The next question comes from Quentin Velleley from Citi.
All right the next question comes from -- I'm sorry we have Quentin on the line now.
Research Division</strong> Paul as you head back to that 96.5% leased rate and presume more growth from terminating leases downsizing and re-tenanting can you just talk a little bit about how you're thinking about CapEx levels and economic trend for those kinds of circumstances? Yes I don't see any dramatic change either way Quentin.
We're very pleased with where we are on a CapEx on a new deal basis.
We are -- you're always going to see some fluctuations quarter-to-quarter based on the character of deals made.
But as we've talked time and time again about the net effect of rents and we're very pleased with how we've controlled CapEx.
We think we did a very effective job of that.
I mean if you look at that net effective rent story just Q2 -- Q1 to Q2 significantly higher starting rents slightly higher cost on a square foot basis but nothing significant but a dramatically increase net effective rent if you look at the bottom line.
There's nothing that we've been in aggressive mode of re-tenanting space for the last several years.
And I think you can plan on seeing a very similar level of CapEx over the next few years.
The next question comes from Cedrik Lachance from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan you've talked in the past about some stores in your centers going to outlet tenants or outlet-type tenants.
There's reports here in the local press that you're contemplating to turn your Long Beach center into an outlet center.
How many centers in your portfolio could be turned in their totality into outlet centers and what kind of timeframe can be put on that? My guess would be one.
And it's the one that you mentioned.
It's not really a -- that has been a distressed center for us for years and we've had conventional retail in there that has come in that's been leased a couple of different times but none of the conventional retail has been overly successful and in that particular case we had interest from outlet tenants.
We just opened restoration hardware recently that had a stunningly successful opening and that was the beginning of a thought process that we should be going out to find the compatible tenants to an outlets like restoration hardware and build from that and we've found good market receptivity to being in Long Beach and being at that center.
But in general we're very fortunate we don't have a lot of distressed centers.
So we don't need to change the dynamic of the centers that we're in.
In fact while the outlet business is robust right now and obviously is doing great we'd rather place some of the outlet tenants into our existing power centers like we're doing now as Paul mentioned with Gap outlet like we're doing with Nordstrom Rack like we're doing with Saks Off-5th.
They don't need to be in a pure outlet environment and our product type is very attractive to them obviously because not only we're doing a lot of business but the occupancy costs are under control.
So as a practical matter there are very few -- I'm looking at Paul but I can think of any other than the pipe that you mentioned that could be converted to an outlet center.
And that was very few that we would even spend the time effort or resources trying to do even if that were the case at this point in time.
So we have -- we've completely transformed our portfolio and the portfolio is performing at a very very high level.
So when you have that rare opportunity to do something great.
And let's face it the only reason why the outlet opportunities are available to us in Long Beach is because it's California the barriers-of-entry are extraordinarily high and we have space available.
So even that is not a perfect outlet scenario.
But at the same time those tenants need to grow as well.
They need to get into markets that they're currently not in and the pipe presented an opportunity.
So I give credits to our leasing folks for being creative enough to pursue that opportunity.
But the bottom line is you will not see a lot of that coming from us.
Yes and I'll just say one other thing Cedrik about that location.
Obviously it's a very unique location and the only of its site in our portfolio which have been so heavily tourist-oriented and then that obviously is something that works with an outlet concept.
So that's the only one we're working on.
The next question comes from Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on Best Buy.
It seems like there's -- I know you've been working with them pretty closely to downsize your space or release it.
But it seems like they've been a pretty vocal -- the new management team about their leases like 75% of the lease is coming back to them within 5 years.
And at least on their side they've been vocal that they've been -- they said they have leverage over landlords.
I was wondering what is the current status of the Best Buy leases? And if the company is trying to downsize the space do they -- are they paying penalties? What are the economics behind that and has that change all in the past year? Yes there really is a downside discussion today with Best Buy and they've made that pretty clear.
They've done some good things by the way as a company right.
We're less concerned about them than we were a couple of years ago whether it's Samsung Microsoft initiatives new leadership at the top selling out of Europe.
There's some momentum there.
But I would tell you I don't know how anybody thinks they have in upper hand when it comes to their lease terms and leases coming up for renewal.
We feel very good about it.
I could give you more than one example where we're ready to replace them should they not take their option.
I mean that's the position we're in.
We've been a good company focuses on real estate with retailers who seem to be at risk and we've been focused on Best Buy's locations for a number of years and other at-risk retailers.
And we're ready to move on these spaces great locations and great prime centers.
And as leases come up we've got back up in just about every case.
And so it's not going to be a leverage position for Best Buy.
And again we feel very good about it.
But on the downsizings they're more interested in fixing their merchandise mix within their stores their entire business model and downsizing is not an issue.
We're ready.
We initiated that conversation a few years ago and made a couple of deals and had some great downsizing stories.
But we can downsize and we can make it successful but they're not -- those conversations aren't happening right now.
Yes I mean at the downsizing was the strategy of the last management team.
And I think what you're hearing and we all have to be cognizant.
There's always a disconnect.
There's often a disconnect between what senior management on a retailer tells the retail analyst and the what the real estate people actually are doing.
Paul and I both came from that environment.
So we've seen it firsthand.
And while each time Best Buy is going out and said we know we're going to use our leverage we're going to downsize.
We're going to do this.
We're going to do that nothing's happened.
And it really hasn't happened and it won't happen in this next cycle either provided you have good real estate.
If they're losing money and they have -- the store's too big and they're not doing well then there's really no -- there's nothing that you could do that will keep them and that's what a good retailer will do.
They'll leave bad locations.
Fortunately we don't have those and we're very confident -- we're very comfortable with what they're doing in the store right now which is improving the merchandising but we're also very comfortable in the desirability of their location should they decide to go elsewhere.
We've tried.
We've tried to get them to go elsewhere at certain centers.
There've been unwilling to do so and I don't think that will change.
The next question comes from the line of Jeremy Roane from Hilliard Lyons.
I was just wondering if you could shed some light on the lease termination fees from this quarter versus the same quarter last year? Yes.
The -- it's always a tough one to model because we've given guidance on an annual basis that it's going to be roughly in line with what it's been honestly the past few years.
Now the nature of some of that is changing because it's often times more proactive on our part than on the tenant's part but you get to around the same number on an annual basis.
So I think we would downplay the quarterly impact simply because some of the stuff is lumpy and completely understand that on your side of modeling oftentimes line items like that just get spread across the year.
But the reality for us is it does and up being a little lumpier than that.
So in general the mindset from us on terminations -- at a point in the cycle like the one where we're at today where demand meaningfully exceeds supply that we have been more proactively having those conversations trying to recapture space but it's -- for the larger ones it's hit or miss whether you get 1 or 2 in a quarter or not or whether you got none.
And so it does just end up being a lumpier line item.
So I think we can continue to provide good annual guidance on it but we obviously don't give quarterly guidance at all on any line items.
And this is just one that's always going to be a little lumpy there where 2 or 3 quarters 1 year we're going to miss on that number.
And 1 or 2 quarters we're going to exceed just because of the nature of that business where it doesn't just gets spread across the year the way our the model could do it.
There were no more questions.
I would now like to turn the call over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us today.
And again we look forward to seeing you all at our Investor Day in October.
Have good day.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Quarter 3 2013 DDR Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Patrick and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Samir Khanal Senior Director Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning and thank for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and President and CFO David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand those statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website.
Last we will be observing a 1 question limit.
During the q&amp;a portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Samir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
As you know we recently hosted our Investor Day in Charlotte at which time we outlined and reiterated many of our long-term goals and aspirations.
Highlighted our deep and talented bench of real estate executives and toured recently acquired and developed assets in the local market.
We were very pleased and appreciative of the strong turnout and I'd like to once again personally thank each of you that took the time to travel to Charlotte and spend the day with us.
It was our goal to present thoughtful content provide unlimited access to our entire management team and conduct the property tour that enhance the articulation of our investment theses and how we intend to execute our stated goals and objectives.
For those of you that were not able to attend Investor Day we trust that you've been able to review the presentation materials and webcast that are posted on our website and have since been in contact with our Investor Relations team regarding any questions you may have.
The overarching theme of our strategy is a continued obsession with consistency and capital allocation.
We will continue to articulate our long-term aspirations and highlight the opportunities we are pursuing to deliver consistent and compelling results like you have seen once again this quarter.
Given the abundance of disclosure over the past month our prepared remarks today will be rather brief to reserve time for Q&amp;A.
Paul will address the growth levers we are pursuing on the operations side and David will focus on the operating and transactional results of the quarter before we open the line up for questions.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Paul.
Thanks Dan.
As Dan mentioned I will briefly highlight the leasing results for the third quarter before addressing recent activity in the portfolio that is consistent with the strategic growth levers we discussed in Charlotte.
We posted another strong quarter with significant leasing volume resulting in a 20 basis point improvement in the leased rate over the second quarter and 80 basis points year-over-year while achieving further improvement in leasing spreads.
Despite a portfolio leased rate of nearly 95% we leased over 3 million square feet during the quarter.
We executed 210 new deals for 900 000 square feet achieving a positive pro rata spread of 14.5% and 12.3% at 100% ownership.
We also executed 233 renewals for 2.1 million square feet at a pro rata spread of 7% and 7.4% at 100% ownership.
This represents our highest renewal spread in 21 quarters and is the continuation of a significant trend we're seeing in the portfolio.
Combined pro rata spreads for the quarter were 8.6% and 8.4% at 100% ownership again displaying the continued outperformance of the wholly-owned portfolio which illustrates the impact of our capital recycling program and quality improvement.
As for examples of the strategic growth leverage we are pursuing the consolidation of small shops space continues to be a robust area of growth in our portfolio.
At Commonwealth Center a newly acquired power center in Richmond Virginia we recently finalized a new 10-year deal with Ulta which resulted in a consolidation of 6 formal small-shop units.
This deal consolidated 3 chronically vacant small shop units and 3 units previously occupied by local low-credit retailers with high turnover.
We successfully consolidated these 6 units into a single 10 000 square-foot box and achieved a 100% increase in rent and recovery rate for the consolidated space increased the credit quality of cash flow outperformed our original underwriting generated significant value creation and introduced a great retailer to the overall merchandising mix of the center.
Our continued proactive consolidation of small shop space has contributed to the improvement in our leased rate for units less than 5000 square feet by 110 basis points over the second quarter to 86.3%.
Our long-term occupancy goal for this space is at least 90% but we will continue to reduce exposure to this category given its nature of lower credit quality tenants and high turnover.
Naked leases and redevelopment were 2 other strategic growth levers highlighted at Investor Day that continue to provide attractive risk-adjusted returns and considerable rent and growth through the proactive leasing of units occupied by tenants with no options near-term lease expirations and below-market rents.
A recent example of these growth levers can be highlighted by activity at Brentwood Promenade in St.
Louis a 300 000 square-foot market dominant prime power center anchored by Target Trader Joe's Bed Bath PetSmart and World's Market.
We had a large-format jewelry store whose lease expired in January 2013 with no options and therefore no control of the space.
With a prominent location adjacent to World Market and a recently expanded Trader Joe's we developed a merchandise plan that calls for the redevelopment of this portion of the center.
After raising the 10 000 square-foot jewelry store we constructed 19 000 square feet of new GLA which is now fully occupied by Ulta Carter's and Lane Bryant.
All 3 recently celebrated their grand openings within 9 months of the former tenants' expiration.
The recapture of the jewelry store and redevelopment resulted in 3 new traffic driving retailers with strong credit profiles positive comps additional GLA and ultimately a 16% unlevered cash-on-cost deal.
As highlighted at Investor Day we have identified over 120 anchors in prime centers that represent naked leases and mark-to-market opportunities.
Additionally given the evolution of the portfolio and continued flexibility exhibited by retailers we have identified an additional $500 million of redevelopment opportunities.
The small shop consolidation in Richmond and the recapture and redevelopment of the naked lease in St.
Louis are just 2 examples that highlight the proactive approach we're taking throughout the portfolio to maximize growth.
I remain extremely confident in our ability to drop -- to continue to drive significant organic growth through these various strategic levers.
And I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
With operating FFO and FFO including nonoperating items from $90 million or $0.28 per share for the third quarter a 4% increase in operating FFO over last year.
Nonoperating items were primarily related to transactions costs that were offset by gains on land sales.
In the third quarter and subsequent quarter end we continued to upgrade the quality of our portfolio through the acquisition of prime power centers in large and growing markets with strong tenant demand employment and population.
We acquired 39 prime power centers of which the majority was sourced through our strong relationships with our joint venture partners.
The prime power centers which totaled 15.6 million square feet feature high credit quality retailers and enjoy average trade area household income of $88 000 and a population of 494 000 people more than 10% above the prime portfolio average.
The average size of the 39 centers is 400 000 square feet and the average price with an excess of $50 million further demonstrating our preference for large-scale market dominant power centers.
As previously announced we acquired a portfolio of 7 prime power centers in a newly-formed venture with Blackstone for $332 million in August.
2 market dominant regional power centers in Orlando and Atlanta for $259 million in July and 30 prime power centers from our existing joint venture with Blackstone for $1.46 billion at the beginning of October.
The investments were funded with proceeds from the May common equity offering and were payment of our preferred equity in mezzanine loans the unsecured bond issuance in May asset sales and assumed mortgage debt.
Regarding asset pricing despite the increase in treasury rates in recent months we have seen little to no change in pricing for institutional quality power centers and we will continue to take advantage of cap rates that have yet to reflect the stability and credit quality of cash flows produced by high-quality power centers.
In terms of the balance sheet we continued to remain focused on debt duration and maintaining strong liquidity.
At the end of the quarter our weighted average consolidated debt maturity was 5 years a significant improvement from 2.7 years in 2011 and in line with our target of 4 to 6 years.
In addition we have over 90% of availability on our credit facility and we also continue to increase the size and quality of our unencumbered pool which based upon conservative covenant calculations is over $5 billion in value today a significant increase from the $4 billion at the end of 2010.
We're going to future capital needs we have no consolidated maturities remaining this year and no unsecured consolidated maturities until May 2015.
We also continue to sell non-prime properties during the quarter with $138 million of dispositions of which $104 million was that DDR share.
Looking forward we currently have $117 million of non-prime and non-introducing assets under contract for sale.
As we outlined in our Investor Day this aggressive capital recycling strategy has significantly improved our portfolio enhancing the credit quality of our cash flows.
Finally with 3 quarters now complete and operating metrics generally stronger than expected we're increasing our guidance for 2013 operating FFO to a range between $1.10 and $1.12 per share.
At the midpoint this represents a 2% increase over the midpoint of original 2013 guidance and an 8% increase over 2012 actual operating FFO which we feel is compelling and extremely competitive within the peer group.
We will continue to remain focused on both NAV and earnings growth on further improving portfolio of quality while continuing to lower leverage and risk and above all else continuing to increase shareholder value.
At this point I will stop and turn the call back to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I was looking at one of your recent acquisitions Winter Garden Village and it seems like it had a really strong restaurant component and then that got me thinking how does management think about restaurants? I know they are a little bit more expensive upfront but I am just wondering if they keep the consumer longer at center or how you think it fits in with your future redevelopments? Craig this is Paul.
Restaurants are obviously a big component of centers such as Winter Garden over 1 million square feet in a location where you clearly with the mix we have there you want to keep people as long as possible.
Some examples the fast casual and casual are doing extremely well today.
Restaurants such as Panera is another example of a restaurant we love to see at many of our centers just because it keeps the consumer there for long periods of time so we're high on it.
The high-end restaurants are struggling a little bit right now but the casual and casual are doing fine and again with the center like Winter Garden if you seen that it's absolutely one that you need a few restaurants with the range of mix and retails we have at that center we clearly want to keep the customer there as long as possible.
And from an financial and risk management standpoints we're going to be following Paul lead on which restaurants make the most sense for a center but we're still going to err on the side of more often than not doing ground leases and so the significant level of improvements in some of those are someone else's risk and not ours and just what we think we can get the best risk adjusted returns while still doing the right thing for the merchandise mix for the center.
Your next question comes from the line of Samit Parikh with ISI.
Research Division</strong> I noticed basically year-to-date the net effects of rents were up just over 6% versus last year and it looks like for the quarter they were up nearly 15% versus the net effective rents on last year so maybe could you just comment on sort of what how you see the trend of rent growth going out next year on a CapEx adjusted basis? Yes Samir.
We see there the rents obviously continuing to grow in a small high-single to low-double digit growth rate as evidenced by the spreads on the new deals but the net effect of rents deserves a little bit of an explanation.
You have to be careful the starting rent in the supplement is going to be of a function of type of deals made in the quarter.
You may have some more back deals or some smaller shop deals which are going to vary.
The key is to watch the spread between that starting rent and the net effective rent and that's where we're focusing on.
And what you seen in this quarter is where the cost associated with the individual deals came down dramatically.
So I am more focused on that spread between starting rent and net effective rent.
The starting rent is going to be very lumpy; you're going to see that fluctuate again just based on the carriage of deals over the quarter.
All for all though you will see base rents starting base rents continue to grow as we live in this great environment of great demand and limited supply.
You next question comes from the line of Andrew Schaffer with Sandler O'Neill.
We have seen a lot of activity in office set with companies acquiring assets in the special services I was wondering why there similar activity from the shopping center space and as we speak maturities lower roll '15 '16 '17 would you consider this as a potential acquisition pipeline? Yes we've been very active trying to look as broadly as possible for unique attractively-priced acquisition opportunities from the stuff that is closest to home where you have seen execute on a number of acquisitions from joint venture partners where the partners were looking to exit to doing exactly what you're saying in terms of scouring the universe of secured assets scouring the universe of assets that are in the special services or about to be had special servicing but we really haven't had any luck and I think your point is reasonable that you could save even more broadly for the retail space in general at finding the stressed assets with special servicers that did represent an opportunity for us.
I think one very important reason for that versus other property types is win an asset in our sector does become somewhat distressed and then capital constrained and goes into that period of servicing which oftentimes can take several years to get through.
By the time someone can get hold of that asset it's not simply a quality office building in a good location it's 50% leased that someone can lease up.
You really have found a situation where the asset might have become more distressed over time than that because of the level of active management that this property type requires because it's not just a commodity sort of property and so for us while we looked considerably across many channels including special servicers and CMBS we are all broadly we really haven't found anything that we thought represented an attractive opportunity going forward.
You could certainly find opportunities where you were buying something in a discount to what the value would have been a few years ago.
But for us in many cases the advantage we have in underwriting is the incredible amount of tenant feedback we can get and we really haven't found tangible opportunities where we can get control of something quickly enough in a special servicing situation to be able to take advantage of that opportunity going forward.
We have in a few cases helped private owners refinance assets by putting in a piece of debt where we can get an attractive return and hopefully control of the assets but we haven't brought anything out of servicing.
Your next question comes from the line of Yasmin with JPMorgan.
I know you're still working on 2014 guidance but any reasons to believe that your base case for acquisitions and dispositions will be that far from this year? Our base case for acquisitions and dispositions will be exactly what we outlined in Investor Day earlier last month.
While we always want to be aggressive in the market we always want to look at what advantages are available to us both on the acquisition and disposition side and we've never not exceeded both our disposition number and our acquisition number since we've been given written guidance in the manner in which we have.
We will still not put ourselves in the position where we feel the need where we have to buy something we're compelled to buy something to make a number or that we're actually forced to sell things that we don't think is right to sell given the cycle that we're in in the market.
So the numbers that we have presented throughout really the year and most recently articulated during the October presentation is where we will be when we release our guidance in January.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a question bankruptcy and bad debt has been very low levels generally and I was just curious as you look at the retail environment what your expectations are around the holiday season? Maybe around post-holiday season fallout this year based on some conversations driving with retailers.
I guess the last 2 years or so has been somewhat more muted and I was just wondering if you could comment on what you're thinking about what me might expect to see this holiday season? Well we expect the bankruptcy will be continue to be mute and we think the bad debt will also continue to be relatively insignificant not just because of the health of the retailers but because of the improvement of the quality of the portfolio.
We have had such an impact in our capital recycling program and upgrading the portfolio that bad debt as a percent to our total just continues to come -- go down as the quality of your portfolio continues to go up.
Plus most of our retailers today if you look at where they sit their balance sheets are as strong as we've seen in sort of the modern era.
They are -- they know -- they've learned how to do business in the tough low GDP environment and their balance sheets are as strong as they've ever been.
Keep in mind that when it comes to bankruptcy there are very few tenants who will declare bankruptcy during the holiday season because that's if you made it to the holiday season you want to get through the holiday season and do your sales.
So if anything happens at all it will happen after the holiday season but we're not projecting anything significant based on our conversations with the retailers analysis of the credit quality of our cash flow and the quality of our portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Pong of R.
W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> When going back to the acquisition environment we heard a lot about how there is still a dearth of well priced core profitability available for the smaller grocery anchor community centers out there you're trying to see some of your institutional competition that's typically been focused on those assets migrate towards more of the power center product and if so do you see that creating any meaningful cap rate compression near term? We've certainly seen over the past 6 to 12 months an increase in the number of institutions actively looking in at power centers.
I still say there is disproportionate focus on other parts of retail particularly Class A regional malls as well as grocery-anchored community shopping centers that they continue to be more in favor.
But we have absolutely seen both pension funds pension fund advisers and some in wealth groups more actively looking at power centers so I think from a long-term opportunity to see compression in cap rates that is a positive early sign but as we've seen in many cases that community is generally slow to move and so we're still seeing an opportunity selectively to acquire the highest-quality power centers around the exact investment pieces of finding larger scale centers in major markets where we can really grow NOI overtimes.
We still see an opportunity out there but we certainly have seen some names participating in the sector that have not been around for many years and so I think you are seeing some momentum to the exact theme that you referenced in terms of institutional capital looking more seriously at the sector.
Your next question comes from the line Omotayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Yes just along the lines of the last question asked.
Why exactly do you feel like sovereign wealth guys and private equity continue to remain somewhat hesitant to really kind of go all in on the power centers? What's kind of really holding them back is it the tenant risk is it like what exactly are they so concerned about? I think there are several things and we've published the power center of investment theses book for the past year and a half or so to try to go through exactly some of that.
And now we've got a lot of those slides Incorporated into our other materials to highlight the true story about the power centers I mean in the strength of the underlying tenants and the stability of the cash flows over time but the institutional capital community consistently has been focused on trailing returns and trailing volatilities.
So I think any change in their investment strategy is one that takes a considerable amount of time to see that actually occur and so that we're going to right now as you're showing quarter after quarter of extremely strong returns from power center tenants.
You're removing some of the greatest risks in terms of certain headline tenants like a Best Buy 2 years ago where we were getting questioned constantly about the viability of that retailer that we consistently stood by during that period but it was one that I think stood out in investors minds as the concern for the sector that's now in a position where it is much better understood.
And so I think these things just take a while to play out but if you simply are looking at the retailers results you're going to see not only the best sales results the best earnings growth the best inventory return the best margins from the power center tenants.
And so I think quarter-after-quarter our underlying tenants show that the consumer is clearly voting and it shows up in the performance of the centers.
When that translates into meaningful cap rate change in the private market we can't tell you exactly but we certainly experienced changes in the past to be pretty glacial in terms of the private capital community.
Your next question comes from the line of Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You did the 2 big transactions that you have with Blackstone and I realize there were some unique circumstance in there.
But how do you view today joint ventures? I mean are they really more of an intermediary for you guys like the Blackstone stuff that's kind of been or is there a long-term complement I guess to the joint venture strategy? Well Rich as our history has been very checkered with joint venture.
We had some very successful ones as of late but we had some stunningly unsuccessful ones in the past and we've learned from those mistakes.
So as we look at where our joint ventures fit in number 1 it has to be a very specific type of partner it has to be a partner that is well capitalized that is to truly aligned with the interest of our strategy and one that brings something to the table that we don't have ourselves; namely access to capital if we're are in the position where we need to access private capital.
We would certainly undertake joint ventures where they bring us product that we wouldn't have available to us.
The second Blackstone joint ventures is a great example of that.
We are very very excited about that transaction but that is not a transaction that we would've looked at but for the fact that Blackstone brought it to us.
So now we end up in again a joint venture with a first-class partner at the same time we end up with the first look at assets if and when it comes to time to get out of that venture and you know that time will come.
So it gives us an insider advantage if you will to manage and lease those assets for a number of years and it takes a lot of the risk as the due diligence process.
So we'd like joint ventures if we need them.
We like joint ventures if it's with the right person and the right entity.
And we like joint ventures if they bring to us assets that we would otherwise not have an opportunity to acquire in the future.
Where we don't like joint ventures is obviously where the partner fails our due diligence test or where they're going to require us to cede the particular venture with prime assets.
We had a lot of offers of folks that would like to joint venture with us on an institutional basis but they are requiring us to cede the venture with a series of assets from our wholly-owned prime portfolio and that is not something that we're willing to do because we loose control of what we consider to be franchise assets.
So we're not against joint ventures with the right person but we're going to be highly highly selective and we want to ensure that would the venture brings to the table is consistent with our strategic objectives and the types of assets that we want to own.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Can you give me a sense of where you think the occupancy cost is for the portfolio today and maybe how that compares back to prior peak levels? Yes we're just a little south of 9% now and at the trough we were down about 8% and we think we can continue to grow this somewhere in that 10% to 12% range in our portfolio but just south of 9% right now.
Research Division</strong> And where do you think market rents need to go before development really starts making more sense? I think it is important to keep in mind that one of the reasons why development doesn't make sense is not necessarily because of the market rents.
There are situations where market rents where they do make a lot of sense but across-the-board on a risk-adjusted basis if you look at the entitlement risk in particular that preventing development from going forward even more so than just base rents.
So I think you can have a very constructive conversation with tenants today and I think rents can get to the point where something on paper would look somewhat interesting but at the same time your entitlement risk the fact that you have to land bank with an uncertain outcome et cetera just doesn't make that project competitive for your other capital opportunities particularly redevelopment.
So if you take an look at where we can allocate capital today whether it's just to lease or through the expansion of our redevelopment pipeline where you have much much less risk and you have much higher returns development is just not competitive on a risk-adjusted basis.
If you look at it on a pure numbers basis you can get to a number if you ignore risk.
But if you take risk into account today it's development is not really compelling and it's not just because of the base rents though our tenants are willing to pay the right rents to get to a decent return that doesn't mean that the landowners willing to give you a long-term option and not require you to buy the land and the land is not entitled.
And there's no guarantee that the state federal municipals the municipalities local municipalities will cooperate with you.
So if you take look back what happened in '07 '06 '07 in particular that's where people got into trouble as where we got into trouble with too much land on the balance sheet was you had to take too much risk.
And right now redevelopment is much much more compelling and I think that's why are seeing most of the capital allocators putting their capital into redevelopment and not new ground up development.
So it's not purely a rent issue.
It's a holistic issue and it's an alternative capital investment opportunity issue.
Your next question comes from the line of Luke McCarthy with Deutsche Bank.
Just if you could provide a little bit more color on the consolidation in the small spaces I'm just trying to understand the dynamics a little better there.
So in the $500 million of redevelopment opportunities you've identified how much of that $500 million is the consolidation opportunity? And with those opportunities kind of what is the genesis of them is it more the tenancy of stronger relationships you're saying hey guys we want more space or is it more a function of you guys pruning your small shop tenant watch list? It's all over the place.
Look first of all in terms of the amount of the redevelopment spent that's devoted to consolidation that's not a number we can put our fingers on.
It's clearly a component of certain redevelopments.
I mean the redevelopments can include downsizing consolidation of small shops recapture of naked lease whatever it is but it's all part of a redevelopment process.
I will tell you on the small shops basis specifically which is where I think you're going with the question.
It is usually the function of space.
We know the demand we know the demand because we're talking to the retailers who are seeking space everyday.
And we're trying to figure out the best way to marry up that demand with space in our assets.
And in some cases it's going to take some relocation of shops some cases we're going to have some chronically vacant space.
So there's no simple cookie cutter method of what we're doing with the consolidation but clearly we know as an example I gave in the prepared remarks in St.
Louis or in Richmond where we have some chronically vacant and some low credit quality smaller retailers and we've got a retailers such as that wants space that's where we're aggressively looking at the different ways we can consolidate the space.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Lucas with Capital One Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the as you guys described the current positive supply demand dynamic I was wondering if besides the growth in base rent are there other lease terms that you're seeing swinging towards the landlord's favor base whether there be annual bumps or tenant rights or other things along those lines? Yes Chris it all goes with the demand for space and the lack of supply.
But I'd will tell you the improvement in other than specifically rent-related issues over the past 5 years have been dramatic as we've seen improvement in core tenancy negotiations in other requirements exclusives these are things that common sense as we hold more leverage in the negotiations where we're going to continue to clean up those clauses and we're making great progress.
In terms of the bumps also an economic issue but again we're seeing improvement more frequent specifically with the Junior Lancaster it'll be every 5 years but the percentage bump is going to be an negotiated item in every deal and we're going to see improvement in that.
And with the smaller shops we see more frequents sometimes even annual bumps.
So it's all working in our favor and we're the entire leasing team is driven to improve everything within those leases with every deal.
Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy with Citi.
I just wanted to follow-up on the Richard's JV question in terms some of your existing JVs with $6.8 billion of asset unconsolidated and you've pointed out that you had roughly 50% of your non-prime assets in the JVs.
Can you talk about what the timeline and resolution of some of the stuff look like in the coming years as you continue to sort of pare down your exposure on non-prime? Yes the process of selling the non-prime assets within the joint ventures have at times taken in little bit longer either because the joint ventures are almost exclusively capitalized with mortgage debt so in some cases that's at that time line and in some cases it's just really cash flow requirements or desires of a partner where they are more interested in today's cash flow than what exactly might be the situation a few years out and obviously we're working closely with our partners on all those.
You had seen an acceleration in the sale of non-prime assets within the ventures and you will see more of that.
Like I said some of it just relates to the maturity of certain debt tools that finally allows us to transact and in other cases it's the partners timeline but we're certainly very actively talking to those guys about our fundamental recommendations in terms of what assets are more likely to see challenges over time.
And today we do actively have assets been marketed for sale within every one of our major joint ventures as the partners have more recently been in agreements that there are good opportunities to sell some of those assets today rather than sit with some of the risks for future years.
And so acknowledge exactly what you say is the progress on the unconsolidated site has been slow.
There are some good reasons for that but you're absolutely seeing more progress today and you should expect to continue to see that in 2014.
There are no remaining questions in the queue.
I would now like to turn the call back over to the management for closing remarks.
Once again thank you for joining us for another earnings call of a very strong quarter for DDR and we look forward to continued momentum and talking to you next quarter.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 DDR Corp.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Glenn and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today Mr.
Samir Khanal Senior Director of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and President and CFO David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and filed with the SEC.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
Last we will be observing a one question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it's my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Samir.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us.
I'd like to start today's call by reiterating that we are very pleased with our fourth quarter and 2013 results.
And even more pleased with our 2014 guidance and 15% dividend increase.
These results would not be possible without the continued transformation of our portfolio through active portfolio management and capital recycling a robust and strategic leasing and redevelopment platform and prudent capital allocation and balance sheet management.
2013 was another year of continued progress and achievement towards the goals and objectives contained within our strategic plan.
We creatively sourced and acquired over $2.3 billion of prime assets on a one-off basis as well as through larger portfolio transactions while opportunistically raising and allocating shareholder capital.
Operationally we generated same-store net operating income growth of 3.3% signed over 1700 leases achieved blended leasing spreads of more than 8% and transitioned premium tenants such as Nordstrom Rack Whole Foods LA Fitness and Five Below into our top 50 tenant roster while achieving consensus investment grade ratings.
2013 ended on a strong note and the momentum has accelerated into 2014.
As announced in our 2014 guidance press release we are expecting another year of operating FFO growth north of 7% driven by continued improvements in operational metrics and strategic capital allocation.
2014 will see the continuation of our efforts to actively monitor and participate in market opportunities as we pursue the creation of long-term shareholder value on a risk-adjusted basis.
In spite of the obvious operating momentum like clockwork this time of year always seems to have investors and market participants tepid about growth prospects with their outlooks clouded by various headlines in volatile prognostications.
Whether it's headlines regarding holiday sales reports the impact of unpredictable weather on retail or fundamentals conclusions drawn about the consumer or changes to fiscal policy and leadership we tend to begin each year with varied speculation and trepidation.
Last year we talked about the potential impact of higher payroll taxes Washington dysfunctionality and gasoline prices.
The year before was also gasoline prices warm weather and the impact of cotton inflation on ready-to-wear margins.
Suffice it to say while relevant discussion points at that time over the course of the year these issues were overcome by the consumer who once again remained resilient and continued to vote with his and her dollar in favor of retailers offering the best merchandise value and convenience.
This year mixed in with the headlines of our holiday sales cold weather and shopper traffic or the recent macroeconomic trends being reported in Puerto Rico.
Given the volume of increase from several of you on this call regarding our stake in Puerto Rico I'd like to address the growing discussion regarding implications of the recent trends being observed and what it means for owners of high-quality retail properties.
You have heard me say several times before that the great thing about our business is you don't have to guess who the winners and who the losers are in retail due to the transparency offered by operating results.
Puerto Rico is no different.
Given the size and scale of our portfolio on the island we have disproportionate access to market information and we don't have to speculate about the economic impact on the performance of our portfolio or the pulse of the local consumer.
For those of you who have been on our recent property tours and have witnessed the poor traffic in sales or those of you who have accessed our website to review our presentation on Puerto Rico you will not be surprised by the following statistics regarding the stability and performance of our portfolio: First and foremost due to the domestic acquisitions primarily the Blackstone transaction in 2013 Puerto Rico now accounts for 12.7% of pro rata NOI down from 14.3% last quarter.
On a blended basis base rents per square foot are up 21% since 2010 with new lease rentals up 33% over the same period.
Over the past 3 years we re-leased 38% of the entire portfolio while maintaining an average occupancy rate of 96.5% and bringing several U.S.-based retailers to the island to improve the credit quality of cash flows.
Occupancy is on track to grow by 50 basis points in 2014 to over 97%.
In 2013 alone NOI grew over 4% and is expected to grow by more than 5% in 2014.
Also in 2013 leasing spreads were positive 34% on new deals and 10% on renewables.
And this is on top of positive 15% spreads on new deals and positive 4% spreads on renewals in 2012.
And perhaps one of the most likely reported metrics yet most telling in an area of focus for us internally as an indication of the retailer health our accounts receivable in Puerto Rico are now at an all-time low.
Over the past 2 years the accounts receivable balance in Puerto Rico has declined by 71%.
Based on the statistics I just highlighted and similar to the commentary you've heard from other significant owners of retail I got friends at TIMCO the macro story in Puerto Rico simply does not translate to the micro performance of our assets.
Retailers are local business.
Portfolio operations in Puerto Rico continue to be solid.
And in several cases outpace the fundamental result of many U.S.
states with superior demographic forces.
Rest assured however that we are watching the situation very carefully are sensitive to government policy that may result in a negative impact and have joined forces with our friends on the island to ensure that our investment interests are protected.
I'm very pleased that under the present circumstances and current narrative we are not attempting to move capital through acquisitions dispositions or new development.
Conversely we are operating in existing portfolio of high-quality assets that are well leased and dominate their densely populated trade areas.
As a result our portfolio in Puerto Rico is at the low-end of the risk spectrum and the high-end of the performance levels.
Simply put rent occupancy and NOI continue to rise while our accounts receivable continue to decline.
The numbers and performance are clear and Puerto Rico is a story of prosperity not distress.
Before turning the call over to Paul I'd like to briefly address the small shop leasing environment and in particular the impacts small shop leasing is having on our portfolio.
Given the concentration of big boxes in our portfolio and limited amounts small shops based relative to our peer group our leasing activity of small shop space tends to get lost in the discussion and is perhaps underappreciated.
Small shop leasing has been an area of growth in our portfolio and several operational metrics have been accretive to overall portfolio operations.
We could not post the strong leasing spreads occupancy gains and rental increases that we have reported without our small shops.
Year-over-year our small shop lease rate increased 230 basis points to 86.6% and outperformed our overall portfolio in the fourth quarter with combined leasing spreads 180 basis points higher.
Given the quality improvement of our asset base we are confident we can increase the lease rate of this portion of our portfolio to 92% which represents a significant organic growth and approximately 800 000 square feet on future positive net absorption at a mark-to-market rate of approximately $25 per square foot on currently vacant space.
While the credit quality of cash flow in this category pales in comparison to the junior box category the opportunity is indisputable and certainly adds to our overall growth story and is clearly an area of focus and appreciation internally.
At this point I'll now turn the call over to Paul.
Thanks Dan.
The operational momentum we sought on the first 3 quarters of 2013 clearly continued into fourth quarter and we're extremely proud of our team and the results delivered in the quarter and for the full year.
As a result we surpassed our guidance and year-end lease rate goal of 95.0% with a 95.1% leased rate up 30 basis points sequentially and 90 basis points year-over-year.
We completed $2.5 million square feet of new deals and renewals in the quarter and 10.3 million square feet for the year.
This was the 5th consecutive year we topped 10 million square feet in deal volume.
Pro rata spreads were again strong with a positive 20.7% new deal spread a 7.9% in renewal spread and a 10.0% combined spread for the quarter.
We continue to execute on the growth levers we laid out at Investor Day and I wanted to highlight a few specific examples of our proactive approach which continues to grow well beyond the obvious vacancy.
In Jupiter Florida we terminated an underperforming sign mart and are backfilling the space with Marshalls HomeGoods combo store resulting in a 185% rental comp as well as dramatic improvement in the credit quality of cash flow.
Furthermore the addition of Marshall's HomeGoods is allowing us to drive leasing and rents for the adjacent small shop space by 20% improving the NOI of this asset by 50%.
As you may have seen in our recent press release we also completed 2 new Nordstorm Rack deals in the quarter.
We're capturing the Babies "R" Us lease in brand in Florida and a Barnes &amp; Noble lease in Columbia South Carolina with rental comps up 160% and 15% respectively.
These deals were made possible through a combination of strategic leasing initiatives the consolidation of small shop space the creation of new GLA and repurposing of the former storage unit all of which resulted in a better merchandising mix and a 20% blended NOI improvement.
In regards to continuing this growth in our outlook for 2014 while a lot has been said and written about the recent holiday season what I would like to make crystal clear is that we are not seeing changes to the long-term strategies of the successful retailers nor any slowdown in their demand for space.
Helping retailers continue to aggressively expand their footprint.
Given this demand for space I'm challenging our team to again deliver over 10 million square feet of leasing in 2014.
Our pipeline of deals coming out of the fourth quarter and early indications in the first quarter of '14 give us great confidence in our revenue and occupancy guidance for the full year.
We can and will capitalize on this unique environment of strong demand with virtually no new supply.
We continue to view every asset and space with an eye to maximizing growth and net asset value.
One great example of this is in Westlake Ohio where we've recently terminated an underperforming Kmart which was paying low single digits per square foot and we'll have full control of this space at the end of May.
More important than simply having control of this highly valuable underutilized space is the fact that we're now in a position to redevelop this entire center to a higher and better use.
The spreads on the 90 000 square-foot Kmart Barcelona are in the 600% plus range and we will now have the ability to redevelop the entire site and grow NOI even further.
Before turning the call over to David I want to provide an update on our redevelopment program as it is that significant internal growth driver with cash on cost yields continuing to average above 10%.
Since launching the redevelopment program in 2011 we have completed 45 projects with a net investment of $240 million at an average cash on cost yield of over 12%.
Our active project list now includes 60 projects with a projected net investment of $570 million with an average cost -- cash on cost yield continuing to be over 10%.
In 2014 alone we will spend over $150 million and bring in at least $100 million into service at various times during the year.
We remain confident this program will grow to over a $1 billion.
And I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $104.5 million or $0.29 per share for the fourth quarter or 7.4% increase over last year including nonoperating items FFO for the quarter was $117.2 million or $0.33 per share.
Nonoperating items primarily consisted of the gain on change of control of interest related to the acquisition of 30 prime power centers from the joint venture with Blackstone.
For the full year 2013 operating FFO was $366.7 million or $1.11 per share an 8% increase over 2012.
2013 was on another robust year of capital raising as we raised over $2.8 billion of equity and debt capital.
For the year we issued $827 million of common equity at average price of $18.76 per share from the acquisitions of prime power centers and were $150 million of 6.25% preferred stock to redeem a $150 million of 7.375% existing preferred stock.
And we also raised $300 million of 10-year senior unsecured notes at a 3.375% rate in May and $300 million of 7-year senior unsecured notes at 3.5% rate in November.
The average spread over U.S.
treasuries on the 2 issuances was 154 basis points which is over 80 basis points tighter than the average spread on 3 prior debt offerings in 2011 and 2012.
In addition we opportunistically accessed attractively priced long-term debt with a proactive refinancing of our credit facilities and secured term loan and advance of their maturity decreasing the average spread by 20 basis points.
As we head into 2014 we've an unencumbered asset pool that is now valued at $5.5 billion by our bank covenants and much more by the transactional market.
A significant increase from $4.3 billion at the end of 2012 and consisting of assets that are of materially higher quality than in the past.
The TALF mortgage loan that encumbers 27 low loan to value asset matures in October of this year and will provide a sizable opportunity to further increase the size and quality of the unencumbered pool.
Our progress was acknowledged with an upgrade by Moody's to BAA2 in the fourth quarter further solidifying DDR as an investment grade credit.
Despite the negative macro headlines on Puerto Rico in recent months financing from top life insurance companies continues to be available at attractive rates for mortgage debt on high-quality shopping centers on the island.
Although our overall strategy is not to encumber many more assets particularly those with redevelopment potential we have recently explored the possibility of adding additional mortgage debt on one asset on the island and have received quite positive feedback from lenders that know the Commonwealth well.
These lenders indicate that there is considerable interest in lending on a long-term nonrecourse basis on our typical assets in Puerto Rico at normal LTVs with an interest rate of approximately 4.5% 10 to 20 basis points higher than available on high-quality mainland assets which is in-line with the historic norms and which supports the fundamental strength stability and high credit quality of our assets specifically and the attractiveness of retail and Puerto Rico in general.
Turning to transactional activity.
We completed $2.3 billion of acquisitions and $430 million of dispositions in 2013.
We acquired 46 prime shopping centers totaling over $17 million square feet with an average size of approximately 380 000 square feet and located primarily in the top 40 MSAs.
Over 2/3 of the acquisition value is financed through new common equity or asset sales consisting with our commitment to lowering leverage.
We sold 80 nonprime assets totaling $433 million of which our share was $296 million for the year and 20 nonprimed assets totaling $184 million of which our share was $98 million in the fourth quarter.
27 additional nonprime assets totaling $185 million at our share currently under contract for sale including $49 million of non-income producing assets.
Regarding pricing.
We continue to see a steady increase in the number of institutions such as pension funds private REITS and sovereign wealth funds with a growing appetite for power centers a trend that continues to drive cap rates down for our property type in the face of a rising interest rate environment.
Despite the demand for our preferred property type a healthy spread still exists between more power centers and similarly located grocery anchored neighborhood centers trade in the private market we believe this gap should narrow as the market share shifts to our top tenants.
This strong pricing environment has allowed us to make considerable progress in our disposition goals only 6 weeks into the year.
However we are advancing several acquisition opportunities and continue to believe that both sides of our transactional guidance are achievable.
As we look forward to the remainder of the year we currently see no major assumption changes that will leave your guidance revision from our January release.
With 2014 operating FFO per share guidance range therefore remains at $1.17 to $1.21 per share implying year-over-year growth of 7.2% at the midpoint.
Finally we declared a first quarter 2014 common stock dividend of $0.155 per share representing a 15% increase from the prior year.
Our payout ratio is approximately 50% of operating FFO which continues to be lowest in our peer group and allows us the opportunity to fund our significant development pipeline and also the potential to raise the dividend at a growth rate in excess of operating FFO growth over the coming years.
At this point I'll stop and turn the call back to Dan for closing remarks.
Thank you David.
I'd like to conclude by reiterating that our story remains intact and performance continues to accelerate.
Portfolio quality is excellent.
Growth is extremely visible.
Macro challenges have become more micro opportunities.
And 2014 guidance contemplates confident execution in the face of perceived headwinds.
Moreover this management team is committed in 2014 to remaining visible available and transparent regarding our specific performance and the overall market conditions that we experience daily.
Again I thank you for joining on our call and I'll now turn it over to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Christy McElroy from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Dan sort of a longer term kind of thing or picture question for you you touched on this a little bit in your opening remarks and Paul you also reiterated continued strong fundamentals.
But I'm wondering if you could provide some additional sort of high-level thoughts on the continued noise around the potential for future big box closure? It's consistently a pushback that we get from the investment community given the increasing competition of Amazon from many of our your tenants and that goes beyond just typical areas of concern in consumer electronics and bookstores and office suppliers? How do you adjust that argument against the future of power center retailers and how do you -- can you provide sort of a sense for how your retailers are using the internet to compete? Sure that's a great question and it's an interesting question Christie because there is chatter obviously and we deal with the possibility of store closures on a regular basis.
And the truth is we haven't seen it.
You've seen the Sears announcement you've seen the Penny announcements.
For years we heard about Best Buy store closures we had won over the years.
So it's -- there's a lot of noise about it but there's not a lot of evidence that it's happening in the power center community and that it's going to effect us in any meaningful way.
What it does though however is it creates an opportunity for us that we are pursuing very very aggressively.
So for example we are of the opinion that the office supply business in general should stink it should shrink in square footage and it should shrink in number of stores.
But when you have a portfolio that's 95% leased overall and 97% in prime assets and you have record demand for space that's a great opportunity for us and we are aggressively pursuing those retailers in an attempt to get back that space.
The problem is is that they dont want to give back space in good assets.
They want to give some back space in bad assets and fortunately we don't have a lot of bad assets left.
And the good assets require a lot more work to try to get a retailer to give up that real estate.
Particularly if that happened to be a store that's making money.
Retailers can't close stores that make money.
It's just really is that simple.
If they start liquidating profitable stores then they're really in the real estate business they're not really in the retail business.
So we continue to battle that.
Overall though we're seeing less discussion about store closures than we have in prior years.
And one other reasons is in fact the Internet.
To shop online pickup in store concept continues to accelerate and it's been very very successful with our tenants.
We're piloting a program right now with Walmart out in Denver at one of our assets just to see exactly how we can make it a convenient experience for the consumer.
If you really believe that shop online pickup in store is going to be an important part of your future business plan and we happen to think that it will from most retailers then you need to ensure that you have the right inventory levels and you need to really ensure that you have the right location that's convenient for the consumer to actually pick up the goods.
Because if it's inconvenient or it's a bad experience they're just simply not going to do it.
And the worse case scenario is for a consumer to arrive at your store and you do not have the inventory.
That's the fastest way to make an enemy.
So retailers understand that.
So stores square footage isn't stinking.
Stores aren't closing in quality assets.
And with the upgrades that we've done to our portfolio and with our occupancy levels where they are our asset quality is at the very very high-end for the very tenants that people perceive is being somewhat at risk.
So we actually become more important not less important to those retailers.
And Paul just anything you want to add to? No I just want to add that that said we're not sitting back waiting for any of the retailers that you might pick out Christine such as books or electronics or office supply or toys.
We're engaged with these retailers on a regular basis.
And we know that demand is great out there for us some of that good real estate and what we've like to have back in so we are in active negotiations and discussions with these retailers.
To Dan's point not all want to close good stores but we'll be taking initiative as we look at what we would like back to improve the merchandise mix and the cash flow of the center.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the comments on Puerto Rico because I think you're right that's been of focus lately.
Can you add some color on what you've been seeing in Brazil lately and if you can give some of the same operating stats and then talk a little bit more about your strategic thoughts in terms of Brazil's fit into the portfolio going forward? We don't have that significant of an update on Brazil relative to what we've consistently said in the past on performance down there also have to acknowledge that they report earnings in less than 2 weeks with the report on the 26 and the call on the 27th and so their operating stats will come out at that time I mean in great detail.
But in general operating fundamentals remain strong and at the stabilized malls.
All of our greenfield assets have now opened.
They did present more of a challenge both in terms of cost as well as in terms of time to stabilization.
But I think that's very consistent with our comments over the past several quarters in terms of our long-term thought process.
I think the bar is set high for anything that complicates this company and the expectation is that it would require well above average long-term return to justify that complication.
And will continue to evaluate all options and choose the course that maximizes the shareholder value for that investment.
Your next question comes from line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just thanks for the Puerto Rico comment because that's been just huge from folks especially who cover the financials.
A question David as you guys you talked about acquisitions.
So one just if you can remind us what's in your guidance for acquisitions and then two how you guys think about doing acquisitions especially if it's a larger scale thing.
If you'd still would be a JV structure sort of like what you use with Blackstone or if you guys are getting more confident in your ability to accelerate IRRs where you're fine issuing your own equity which on our numbers is around 7 7.1 to buy maybe mid 6s that may be on an IRR basis you can get a better return.
Just wanted to understand that better especially if there is this disconnect where you guys have a skill set and an operational understanding to act quicker than others and take advantage before the gap continues to close? Sure.
Our guidance included very modest nets acquisitions for the years of about $250 million of acquisitions and $200 million of dispositions.
As you can see so far we are well on our way on the disposition pace and making good progress although not as advanced on the acquisition pace.
It is safe to assume that a large reason for that is even with the increase in interest rates we've seen we have not seen any downtick at all in the pricing for power centers or uptick at all in the cap rate for power centers and so we've advanced the sell side a little more rapidly than the by side.
We continue to look at very large number of opportunities.
Some of those marketed.
Most of those non-marketed.
Most of those continue to be one-off assets where we believe that we can add some specific value to a center based on our knowledge of the center the trade area or specific tenant interest within that center.
But we also have evaluated a number of portfolio deals I don't think you will us lose any discipline regarding portfolio deals in terms of underwriting and how cautious we would be with it.
And at times that does make it more challenging to underwrite a very large portfolio in a short period of time given the level of due diligence that we would absolutely expect to do.
And secondly the competition for the larger deals as more capital comes to the space has only been more significant and so we continue to look at everything some of which is known some of which certainly is not known broadly and we continue to evaluate deals and feel comfortable that we can achieve that $250 million or so of acquisitions for the year.
We've guided to that level for past several years and we've massively exceeded it.
But I think we've tried to be prudent with guidance where we're not going to force ourselves to take on a deal where we don't think either the pricing is appropriate or the risk profile is appropriate.
So I think the reasonable guidance is something that benefits us in a year when pricing has been a little higher than we expected and so we continue to evaluate deals.
I think number 1 for us is always the evaluation of the transaction.
Can we make money on this shopping center or not? And number 2 then is how we would finance that? And at today's or at the recent share prices though we have not issued equity we have not been at all inclined to issue equity and so I think that's an important signal in terms of how we would think about funding deals going forward and especially as we set ahead on the disposition volume that puts us in a strong position to fund any acquisitions that we're looking at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess pegging on Alex's question.
With your focus to continue to improve DDR's portfolio quality.
Is that -- does that look like it may be coming less from acquisitions and more from redevelopment? I think redevelopment obviously is a great opportunity and it is really the best use of our capital.
So we'll continue the redevelopment would be a big part of how we intend to improve the quality of our existing portfolio.
A lot of that redevelopment though keep in mind Craig is really at our very best assets as well.
So the improvement in the quality it's hard to go from an A to an A in some cases.
But the improvement really becomes merchandise mix and offering to the consumer.
As far as acquisitions are concerned we still live in an extraordinarily fragmented universe.
The owners of quality power centers across the U.S.
is as fragmented as it's ever been and we still do view that as an opportunity to improve the portfolio.
So it'll be a combination of both.
I think the fragmentation and in some cases the mispricing gives us the opportunity on the acquisition side.
And the real gap between the supply and demand dynamics that currently exist on the landlord tenant relationship side gives us extraordinary redevelopment opportunities.
So I think you'll see a healthy dose of both.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan with MLV.
Research Division</strong> It just encouraging to hear the target for the small shop occupancy.
I know -- I don't think you were tracking it that closely in terms of the breakout prior to the recession.
So I'm just kind a get sense of how do you get to the 92% number? Is that just kind of based on kind where your top centers and getting others up there and then also where you seeing the strength coming from? Is it larger franchises or segments within the space like restaurants or healthcare or anything like that? Is there any color you can provide just to how can get from where you are now to 92%? It's great question Paul.
I dont know if you remember last quarter an investor were probably talking about 90%.
The fact is that we've improved the quality of the portfolio and we're more of a power center across the board versus the gross community center.
There's a higher quality of small shop space within those assets.
Higher-quality anchors higher quality small shop space a lower percentage of shop space within those assets.
We took a hard look over the last couple of months and quite frankly we were aiming to low.
Historically this group is less than 5000 square feet hit about an 89% maybe 90%.
We are quite confident as we look at it now we look at the improvement and the quality of the portfolio that 92% is very achievable.
And as I said on other goals we've internally set before I'm not sure we stop there.
It's just something that's reaching beyond where we've been in the past and it is all about quality.
In terms of who we're leasing to it is all the categories you mentioned the traditional food some of the newer nontraditional chipotle Panera the cell phone users the service-oriented shops franchises in general.
We are seeing improved health on the part of mom and pops but they really not going to be the story in our portfolio that power center format going forward.
But again better quality of small shop space and quite frankly we were aiming too low and we're confident we can hit that over the next several years.
We do struggle Paul a little bit you mentioned healthcare for example and I know there has been quite a bit of conversation about that.
We do have internal discussions on a regular basis as whether we should lease space to non-retail users.
And one of the problems with doing that of course is it's typically not an acceptable cotenant to retail users.
So it fills space and it pays rent from a merchandise mix standpoint if you have a high-quality center.
Can be very careful where you go in the service industry because the perception of your asset can change depending on who you lease to.
So we probably are doing less healthcare less non-retail if you will uses in our small shop leasing and I think that will continue out of availability of interest quite frankly.
We have enough small shop interest in the typical retail uses that we don't have to go sort of off the reservation and lease to folks that aren't really compatible with our anchors or the other small shops in the shopping center.
Your next question comes from Jonathan Pong with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> You've been sitting on some ground up development projects for a while about $215 million on hold.
Can you talk a little bit about where you see the activity going in 2014 and maybe the composition of projects there that you'd like to sell versus continue to build? Yes Jonathan.
We've made some great progress obviously over the last couple of years whether it's been pad sales anchor sales non-retail users.
We brought C block which you see in the of great development ground-up development project which will open late second quarter of this year.
That plan we held for number of years.
As the market the economy the demand got better we now have the center with Walmart Dick's Michaels Ulta PetSmart name your best in class retailers.
It's a great story.
Mary in Kansas recently showed up and our projects under development was also land held for a number of years.
Sold the big piece to Ikea and developing around that again a great story.
We've got a couple of more which are not fully active at this point.
But again as demand increases and the market improves we see more and more of our Atlanta has been in that held category if becoming ground-up development.
We've got one in Connecticut one in Florida that we're very focused on and moving towards either at late '14 or '15 start for those projects.
That's all great news.
Couldn't have told you the same story 4 years ago.
But again that's a function of the demand that's out there and the improving market.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Again just want to go back to your opening comments just about the sort of the headlines and some of the noise that we hear every year at the start of the year.
Just curious I mean the headlines have been fairly negative on the retail sector.
I'm just wondering what your major takeaways were from holiday 2013? Well my major takeaways really were that while it was just a fair season overall for retail I would much rather be a retailer today then a vendor.
The amount of pressure that retailers are putting on the vendors because it's interesting while sales sometimes aren't great and even reported margins aren't always terrific balance sheets are pretty darn good.
And one of the reasons why that is is because vendors are supporting these retailers in the variety of different ways and supporting the sales and supporting the markdowns.
So my general feeling was that I'm not concerned from the retail perspective because there's always support coming from the vendor community.
But I think it's going to be an extraordinarily difficult year on the vendor community and I think the pressure that they were under this holiday season was somewhat unprecedented particularly because we had a shorter selling season therefore markdowns came earlier and markdowns support had to come earlier.
So it's interesting to watch it.
I think one of the things that's really happened is that the holiday shopping season has changed dramatically over the years.
We used to sit around and really feel that on December 26 if the numbers weren't great we think Thanksgiving and Christmas we're going to lose retailers.
Things were going to happen.
But if you really look at how retailers are adjusting to the holiday season it's not nearly as significant from a life-and-death perspective as it used to be.
Tenants can take a top holiday season they're not in a position where they're going to disappear overnight the way they were 5 years ago or even 10 or 15 years ago quite frankly.
Most tenants have not only do they have reserves but they have inventory controls in place today that far exceed the risk that you have by having a weaker holiday season.
So I'm -- I was somewhat disappointed that some of our retailers didn't go for the holiday season the way I would have liked.
If you walk into the stores for example right after Black Friday inventory levels were relatively low and often on very unexciting.
And when inventory levels were low and the store is not very exciting it's not going to translate into good sales.
However that was done intentionally for a variety of different reasons and I think balance sheets will prove that retailers manage the holiday season pretty well.
So I think it was a decent season for retailers.
I don't think it was great.
I think it will be less than decent for the vendor community.
Your next question is from the line of Steve Sakwa with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Dan I know you talk a lot about sort of capital deployment and development and redevelopment I guess in particular a kind of highest and best use of capital.
I guess given the demand for your product type and the disconnect that you believe exist between the public and private market.
Does the share buybacks ever make sense? I know you issued equity in the 18s but the stock is below 16 today.
Does that sort of enter your thought process or is kind of the selling and buying of stock just create too much friction and you just sort of have to kind of grin and bear it at this point and wait for the market to turn? Well it's certainly something that we discussed it's not something that we're enthusiastic about or that we're exited about doing.
In my view you have to trade at an extraordinarily significant discount to NAV and have really no other options for your capital in order to do that.
I think that right now we are in sort of an interesting cycle where headlines are grabbing people's attention and operating fundamentals are being relatively ignored to a large extent and that won't last forever.
And I don't think it's really in our best interest at this point in time to put a share buyback at the high-end of our priority list particularly given some of the other opportunities that we have.
Your next question is from Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quick question about your -- you guys used to talk a lot about splitting up Big Boxes and creating 2 junior boxes.
So I have a couple of questions regarding that.
Now first does that show up in your lease spreads or is that categorized as noncomp so there is no true lease spread? And second part of that how much of you done in terms of square footage in 2013 and how much is there more to do in 2014 and what would the impact look like to your top line? On the first question we do not include the split of a Box any reconfiguration will not make it into spreads and to be honest with you in what would happen is they would be so overstated typically if you had a box that was leased at $12 a foot and you split it you're going to be in the $16 to $18 range easily.
So we're not including that which again lends to the conservative nature of our reporting on spreads.
Over the last 2 years we've done over 18 of these downsizings which were for about 650 000 square feet.
There's no specific number out there in terms of what we have left to do.
We're going to do what's right for the asset in terms what's the merchandise mix.
I mean Ulta is clearly a player that comes to mind when you talk about downsizings or splits and they are still very aggressively looking for a 100-plus a year new locations.
So there's no given number that we expect we can do at the amount of square feet or X location.
It's really just what's best for the mix what the demand is for the space.
Your next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Dan in your opening remarks you said that momentum has accelerated and I understand it is still upside in terms of small shop leasing and occupancy and that rents are trending higher.
But there's arguably less occupancy outside today and David mentioned the cap rates are unchanged or even lower despite higher rates and making it more difficult to buy properties.
So I was just wondering when you say that momentum has accelerated what part of the businesses is gaining momentum specifically in this DDR sort of augmented strategy at all to take advantage of this acceleration at all? Yes I mean the momentum is accelerated basically and everything that has to do with the tenant because the demand has continued to increase.
As Paul said there's been no pullback at all from any of our tenants in any significant way and demand is still there and we do augment our business model because we're being much more aggressive on redevelopment.
We'll be much more aggressive on potential tenant buyouts lease terminations if we can trying to get back space because we know that won't last forever.
And we think that this is a very interesting time.
I can't remember a time in recent memory for sure where we had tenant demand as high as it is and landlord leverage is high as it is.
Well that's not going to last forever.
And while we're still in this particular cycle I think we do have to take advantage of it.
So capital markets aside from then and I think you've seen we get with there a lot of momentum in the capital market side we've been very transactional in that area.
Anything related to the tenants in our particular product type right now is hot.
And we need to take advantage of that as best we can.
It also includes on the acquisition side because some assets that we look at because of the fragmented nature of our sector are undermanaged.
They're either undermanaged because those landlords didn't have the leverage or they may not have the capital.
So there's value-add opportunities or core plus opportunities that if we put assets into our platform given the tenant demand we can really accelerated our returns on that particular asset regardless of our going in cap rate.
Those are the assets we're looking for.
So yes I mean we are augmenting our strategy by being much more aggressive in the markets in areas where we can leverage our operating platform and maximize value as quickly as possible.
Your next question is from Jason White with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering is there any evidence that those tenants have been desiring to shrink their sales force foot print have plans to utilize that excess GLA as distribution space to support their online sales formats in the long-term? Jason at this point it's more of a discussion.
I don't have any real evidence but it's clearly something we kick around with the guys like the Best Buys but where is going to be the space need going forward.
Right now they have not shrunk their sales floor but it's something they're thinking about.
And it's something that they should do at some point in time is that what the market calls for.
Because you will need like I mentioned earlier you will need to be in stock if shop online pick up in store is important.
And now they have to be stock which you have to be convenient to get to and experience when the consumer gets there has to pleasant.
You can't have shop online pickup and store and have your consumer going to the loading dock next to the dumpster to pick up the merchandise that's not a pleasant experience.
So retailers are all looking at that now and I think that is one of the reasons why we haven't seen a decline in square footage from the people that often are being publicized as desiring that because they need to know -- they need to have the square footage to support the inventory necessary to satisfy the consumer who shops online to pick up in store.
So I think as that evolves the actual square footage requirements will also evolve but it's not going to be necessarily distribution facility as much as it's going to be inventory areas that not only support the online sales to pickup to shipping as well and also support the actual store and the walk-in consumer also.
Next question is from Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> These volumes talk a little bit about where shops and box rents are compared to the pre downturn and then just what would be the implications for on what most start to see national development pickup? We're right about where we were prerecession Michael.
Not all categories not all locations.
But we're very happy and I think you see that reflected in the spread quarter after quarter.
We're buffing those mid-teens to 20% this quarter.
We're seeing rents that are right there.
You got to keep in mind prerecession different rents for ground-up development versus second-generation space.
We've been dealing mostly with the second-generation space in the last 5 years.
But to get those rents back to where they were previous session is a big deal and we're there.
And I don't think it's slowing down to be honest with you.
The demand we've been talking about on the entire call is terrific and if you just look at the best-in-class guys who are looking to grow aggressively.
Their numbers aren't slowing down.
In terms of what that means for ground-up development ground-up development that makes sense will get done.
We haven't really been waiting just for rents to be at a certain level.
I mean its got to be demand the site has got to be right everything has to be right.
And if that means it's the best way to monetize some of the land we've had on the books that's what we're going to do.
It really hasn't been lets wait for that magic day when rents are the same as they were prerecession.
Next question is from James Sullivan with Cowen Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Back on the Analyst Day Paul you talked a good deal about the mark-to-market opportunity as option terms and some of the anchor leases burnoff.
I'm curious how those negotiations are going as a general point? And also to what extent if any anchor lease terms on new or renewal leases are becoming more favorable generally to DDR? And what I'm thinking of particularly there is whether or not you're getting more or better bumps in base rents in new leases whether you're giving fewer or shorter options that kind of thing? The mark-to-market opportunity is there Jim and that's what really driving the numbers.
The 2 examples I gave with Rack in Columbia South Carolina was the deal where we did not renew a naked Barnes &amp; Noble lease with the Babies "R" Us brand in Florida was one that we terminated the lease I mean the growth leverage exactly as we laid out at Investor Day.
That continues to be our focus.
Dan and I were both talking earlier about some of the other headline retailers again whether its office toys electronics books.
That is the big focus of our entire team to make sure we're figuring out a way to get that space back.
Whether it's natural exploration or negotiation and market-to-market because that's what's going to drive the spreads and the growth in these assets going forward.
I think one of the things that's interesting to look at is the leased rate one of the other callers asked about you're at 95-plus percent leased just to look at the buying of deals that we're still doing given that lease rate which is now 600 basis points higher than our low back in 2009.
And at the function of what we're doing to recycle the space to higher and better uses higher rents better mixes et cetera.
In terms of the lease terms I would tell you that even some of the noneconomic are improving -- some of the noneconomic terms whether it's co-tenancy we can negotiate harder as space is in demand people are competing for space.
I mean that's an obvious.
Its a little bit of leasing one-on-one.
When you have demand for space and people competing for that space you drive the harder bargain.
Starts with the rents but certainly plays out into the options the bumps and the noneconomic issues within the lease.
Your next question is from Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
My question has to do with disposition.
Just given that top grades remains a type and your target of generating most of the your NOI from your prime assets just curious how much more by way of disposition do you see happening in the portfolio to kind of hit those targets and what that means for potentially doing more dispositions in 2014 unless it's what's in the guidance? I think we've obviously been very active on the disposition front than by far the largest seller of assets particularly non-prime assets.
But over the past 5 6 years continued to be ahead of the class you've seen us based on a strong pricing environment accelerate the timing and pace of dispositions.
This year with the considerable amount that we are under contract dominance so I think you can assume that guidance for the $200 million or so dispositions is very achievable and hopefully something we can exceed.
We don't look at that side on it's own.
We also are obviously spending considerable amounts of time looking for the reinvestment opportunity in the high-quality prime assets.
But given where the market is today we've certainly seen more progress at the very early stage of the year on the disposition side given where pricing is and we would expect to continue to make progress from the 91.5% or so prime portfolio that exist today up to the 95% target that we established in the 5-year plan.
The guidance of past few years has been that $200 million or so year of dispositions.
We've exceeded that for past few years and I think to the extent we continue to see a strong environment.
This year we would be happy to accelerate that process.
Some of it is always going to be subject to debt that's on assets or specific tenant related items.
But we are extremely focused on continuing to dispose of those non-prime assets.
There's less of them remaining.
There's less inventory.
There is a less of the true dregs left that represented the hardest and yet smallest dollar amount of sales.
But it continues to be a major focus for our transactions team.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler O'neil.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Dan just want to the circle back with the increased attention the B malls are getting.
Obviously the Simon and Spinco and then you've got the Starwood platform out there.
Do you think that as these companies consolidate the B malls they're going to increasingly look to big box tenants more than just anchors and try and do another round of de-malling if you will like we saw last decade or you think the de-malling thing didn't work so at the end all we're going to see is just big box as anchors but that's probably about it as these guys acquire more B malls? That's a great question Alex.
De-malling doesn't work for a B mall it works for like an F mall.
And the reason being is that you have B malls still have tenants that have contractual rights that you need consent from in order to de-mall.
It's very very expensive.
It's very time-consuming.
And the returns are very very low.
So it didn't really work well with malls.
A mall really has to be dead in order to de-malled effectively and in order to make money.
So I don't think you'll see it much in the B mall business.
And we have not seen that much in the B mall business if you look at the de-malling that have been done historically including some of the ones that we did there were like no tenants or 3 or 4 tenants that you can afford to buy out.
But there wasn't a situation where you're 70% leased or 75% leased or even 80% leased it makes it extraordinarily difficult to get the consent to do what you want to do on a de-malling basis.
I think the B mall operators will continue to look at power center tenants and others as they look to fill space.
Because obviously keeping that space filled and keeping it filled at the right price and keeping the shopping center attractive because consumer has been a challenge.
And there are some folks out there that are doing great job of it and there are some folks that are just getting started.
But I will say that the opportunity does exist today to deals with some of our tenants because again there is really very little new supply.
Demand is still very high and if tenants have to make a decision between whether going to a power center or a B mall our tenants will always pick a power center because that's where they prototype and that's what their economic basis is for their operation.
However if there is no power center available and they have to make the decision between whether skipping a market or going to a B mall they will be wise to go to a B mall and those opportunities certainly exist and we're seeing some of that.
And we think that's very healthy for the retail environment.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you all again for joining us.
We are very excited about 2013 and we're even more excited about 2014.
And look forward to speaking with you soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the 2014 DDR Corp.
Earnings First Quarter Conference Call.
My name is Crystal and I will be the operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Meghan Finneran Financial Analyst.
Please proceed.
Thank you Crystal.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and President and CFO David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 as amended.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO and Operating FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplements are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
Last we will be observing a one-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone a chance to participate.
[Operator Instructions] At this time it is my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Meghan.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As illustrated by our first quarter operating metrics our portfolio continues to perform at an extremely high level in historically strong and soft quarters.
With over 3 million square feet of leasing in the first quarter and the sale of our Brazil interest I thought it would be appropriate to take a step back and reflect on the portfolio transformation that permits us to post operating numbers that continue to exceed even our own lofty expectations.
I'd like to start by reflecting on the strategic and operational significance of the closing of the Brazil transaction.
Several years ago when we laid out a plan to simplify this company reduce risk and eliminate the complexity that resulted from legacy transactions the risk in the plan was market receptivity that would enable successful execution for the benefit of all our shareholders.
As we sit here today we are pleased to say that our exit from Brazil exceeded our expectations and the execution of the transaction represents a significant milestone for this company as we move beyond the investments that complicated our story and distracted investors' attention from our core business.
At the end of the day while Brazil only accounted for 4% of our NOI it represented about 75% of investor and analyst questions.
While the strategic benefits of selling our stake in Brazil were obvious it is important to note that we continue to execute with a long-term focus on NAV not short-term FFO which will position this company for attractive long-term risk-adjusted growth.
Given the significance of our exit from Brazil it's a good time to pause and reflect on what we have accomplished what we now own and how we are continuing to upgrade the quality of this portfolio.
Today DDR is a pure play power center-focused company with a dramatically reduced risk profile simplified story and significantly enhanced portfolio.
Following the sale of Brazil we have eliminated 11 joint ventures in the past 3.5 years and we continue to reduce our JV platform particularly ventures that no longer align with our core business.
Since 2010 our capital recycling program has resulted in selling nearly 300 assets representing $2.7 billion and we have purchased more than 75 prime power centers representing $2.9 billion in major markets.
This portfolio transformation has enabled us to lease 48 million square feet since 2010 and achieve same-store NOI growth in excess of 3% for the past 8 quarters.
Additionally the average size of our assets has increased 27% and base rent per square foot has increased nearly 10% reflecting the market dominance and tenant demand for our power center product even in difficult -- even in a difficult environment.
We have reduced the number of markets in which we own and operate shopping centers from 170 in 2010 to just 105 today and increased our exposure of annual base rent derived from the top 50 MSAs from 57% in 2010 to 72% today.
Our active portfolio management platform has significantly increased our exposure to key tenants including Whole Foods Nordstrom Rack Five Below Ulta the Ascena Retail Group of brands Panera and LA Fitness all of whom are now in our 50 tenant roster ranked by annual base rent.
Moreover Sears Kmart Staples Rite Aid and Tops Supermarket are no longer in our top 25 tenant roster.
Looking forward our portfolio transformation will continue and we expect operating results to follow suit.
With regard to the transactions environment cap rates from our -- for our product continue to compress and we see an incredible opportunity to increase non-prime and prime-minus assets as there's significant demand and a dearth of comparable products on the market.
Our increased disposition guidance is resulting in unprecedented liquidity for this company and we are actively sourcing off-market acquisition opportunities to reinvest capital at attractive returns in core markets which will further accelerate our portfolio transformation process.
Specifically we are excited about the previously announced acquisition opportunities described in our quarterly transactions press release which are located in major metros including Chicago Cincinnati Denver and Northern California all of which we expect to close later this year.
Before turning the call over to Paul I'd like to take a moment to address the common theme of first quarter earnings for our retailers and retail REITs so far which is the weather.
There has been much chatter about the impact weather has had on first quarter operating results for both retailers and landlords.
While we can all agree that the winter was harsh and retail sales were legitimately impacted in a negative manner the overall effect across our portfolio was immaterial due to prenegotiated and capped contracts with vendors the realistic internal budgeting process and proactive collection efforts.
With regard to the few recently announced store closings from retailers please keep in mind that retailers like to use weather as an excuse for poor performance.
But the reality is that these store closures are long overdue and make the overall retail landscape much healthier.
Not surprisingly the retailers that are closing stores are those that have experienced a rapid erosion in market share and suffered from directionless merchandising strategies.
The timing for store closure could not be better as the list of retailers looking to expand remains robust.
Importantly as Paul will discuss in more detail we have not seen any pullback in store opening plans from the retailers we have done the most business with over the past 5 years and we expect the recently announced store closings to be a net positive for our portfolio as we re-lease space at positive spreads and improve the overall merchandise mix of our assets.
At this point I'd like to turn the call over to Paul.
Thank you Dan.
Before briefly covering a few highlights of our first quarter performance I would like to point out that all leasing metrics as recorded in our supplement including historical metrics now exclude Brazil and reflect the domestic and Puerto Rico portfolio exclusively.
In the first quarter we executed 378 new deals and renewals for 3.1 million square feet our strongest volume in 19 quarters and the second highest quarterly volume in our company's history.
This is without the benefit of the deal flow from the Brazilian portfolio and is a strong indication of the significant retailer demand that we continue to see for prime power center space in our domestic portfolio even in a quarter that has produced historically tepid numbers.
Not only did we deliver extraordinary results from a volume perspective we continued to drive rents with a new deal spread of 20% and a 9% blended spread for the quarter.
Our leased rate increased 10 basis points to 95.1% which compares favorably to the historic average decline of 20 basis points in the first quarter.
We remain confident we will deliver a leased rate increase of at least 75 basis points this year consistent with our guidance.
With the lease rate now in excess of 95% and a boxed leased rate of nearly 98% the question I am most frequently asked is "How would you continue to deliver strong leasing volume and organic growth?" Back in October at our Investor Day we presented several initiatives and organic growth leverage we are pursuing including naked leases small-shop consolidations anchor downsizing proactive lease terminations and redevelopments.
Today I would like to focus on proactive lease terminations and provide an example of how we are generating incremental organic growth in an environment of continued strong tenant demand and new-supply generation below historic levels.
We have been actively negotiating recaptured deals with a number of retailers looking to right-size their real estate footprint in the books toys office and traditional department store categories.
I'm excited to report that we have recently finalized or are in the process of finalizing 20 deals representing 465 000 square feet of prime box space located in power centers across the country.
Importantly many of these recaptures are structured as ongoing landlord recapture rights and not with fixed termination dates providing maximum flexibility in terms of timing and the ability to finalize replacement deals with minimal downtime.
The below-market rents for these 20 locations represent an estimated mark-to-market opportunity of over 40% significantly improving the growth profile of these prime assets which are currently 98% leased.
Our net investment in these locations including acquisition and projected re-tenanting costs will be approximately $33 million with an estimated un-levered cash on cost yields from the low double-digits to the mid-teens.
In addition to the obvious upside in rental income same-store NOI growth asset value enhancement and improved credit quality of cash flow these recaptures can also lead to further redevelopment opportunities and merchandising enhancements.
We will recapture 7 of these initial locations in 2014 and expect that by spring of 2015 we will have exercised our right to recapture all locations provided the tremendous demand from the retail community.
Tenants such as Nordstrom Rack Sprouts Farmers Market Ulta Whole Foods Five Below HomeGoods Marshalls Trader Joe's White House Black Market Gap Factory Shoe Carnival PetSmart and Carter's are just a few of the names with whom we're finalizing deals to backfill these locations.
While we are excited about this first wave of opportunities we view this as a multiyear plan.
Our target list continues to grow as we remain proactive with our retailers in identifying mutually beneficial opportunities to recapture space in advance of natural lease expirations while simultaneously capitalizing on the demand we are experiencing for high-quality box locations within our portfolio.
I look forward to updating you on our progress with this initiative.
Finally as you know recon is just over a week away.
We have a strong slate of meetings and we'll continue to focus on this and our other growth initiatives.
I want to remind everyone that we will be located at the Bellagio in the Da Vinci ballroom this year and not at the Las Vegas Convention Center.
We have great space and look forward to seeing you there.
And I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $100.7 million or $0.28 per share for the first quarter.
Including nonoperating items FFO for the quarter was $85.8 million or $0.24 per share.
Nonoperating items primarily consisted of impairment of a joint venture investment and a charge-related determination of a Kmart lease that is expensed under GAAP.
We have made a number of announcements since the start of 2014 and I would like -- that I would like to touch on in further detail.
First we announced the closing of the sale of our investment in Brazil on April 28.
As Dan mentioned the transaction represents a significant step in DDR's simplification process and does so in an IRR to DDR of more than 10% over the life of the investment.
More importantly the sale of our investment in Brazil is indicative of our continued desire to decrease the risk profile of this company over the course of an economic cycle.
By exiting Brazil we reinforced our commitment to lowering sovereign currency partner and development risk in a transaction with little friction and with strategic merit for all parties.
The $344 million of proceeds to DDR present an opportunity for us to reinvest the cash accretively in the recently announced redemption of the remaining $55 million of our 7 3/8% Class H preferred shares as well as in our focused property-type prime domestic power centers.
While the dilution associated with holding that cash for a period of time is noticeable in 2014 results we will not sacrifice our investment criteria to reinvest the proceeds in suboptimal assets or at mediocre returns.
Capital allocation remains a top priority for this company and NAV growth over the long term coupled with shareholder return remain more important than simple FFO growth.
To that end we encourage the investment community to look into our recently filed proxy statement to understand management's compensation metrics and how our compensation is more closely aligned with the investment community in the long-term growth than the vast majority of our peers.
Second we also announced an increase in our domestic disposition guidance from $200 million to $400 million.
The increase was the direct result of the strong disposition environment for B-quality shopping centers that no longer fit our investment criteria.
As we have mentioned previously we have implemented a dedicated portfolio management team committed to underwriting each asset and ranking them based on CapEx-adjusted NOI growth NSA sales credit market dominance and merchandising mix.
This process has brought to light a number of low-prime shopping centers that we decided to market and have received very positive pricing fee backups.
As of the end of the first quarter we sold 14 non-prime assets for gross proceeds of $198 million and have an additional $133 million of non-prime and non-income producing assets under contract for sale.
Of the operating assets sold or under contract the large majority of small-format neighborhood centers are single-tenant assets under a 135 000 square feet further reinforcing our investment thesis to own large format prime power centers in top MSAs.
The low-quality assets under contract or LOI are currently projected to sell an average cap rate in the low 7% range indicative of the strength of the disposition market and our desire to take advantage of it.
The sale of our investment in Brazil and the increased disposition activity was a direct reasons for our increased Operating FFO guidance range of $1.14 to $1.18 per share.
The current range outlines a midpoint growth rate of 5% per share above the sector average and consistent with our total shareholder return goal of 8% to 10% annually.
With that said the previously announced reduction in current-year FFO guidance is not something we take lightly but one that we felt was prudent given the transactional environment and opportunity to further streamline our portfolio and position ourselves for long-term growth and lower risk.
In addition we view any dilution as short-term reinvestment dilution as we believe our ability to reallocate this cash in a high-quality asset means we can redeploy this capital and recreate this NOI in the near-term versus the long-term dilution experienced during the peak of our repositioning out of much more challenged assets several years ago.
I would also like to address our previously disclosed desire to take advantage of the secured debt market in Puerto Rico in order to highlight the lack of effects that macroeconomic headlines have had on property-level fundamentals and valuations.
We continue to advance the non-recourse financing of our quality shopping center on the island from a top life insurance company and a normal loan to value with an interest rate just 10 to 20 basis points outside of high-quality major market mainland assets and in-line with historic norms.
We expect to close on this financing during the second quarter.
Finally I would like to draw your attention to our recently revised supplemental package.
During the course of each year we have been getting investor feedback and typically employ major disclosure changes in the first quarter.
The new supplemental package is streamlined but includes none of the previous disclosure and in fact adds new information.
We now include additional disclosure on same-store NOI including a detailed same-store income statement and same-store leased rate.
As we've stated before we feel that our calculation is sector-leading in terms of legitimacy as it excludes redevelopments bad debt expenses lease termination fees and non-cash items all of which add artificial volatility to quarterly results.
I would also like to point out that our operating metrics in Section 4 of the supplemental including same-store NOI leased rate rent per square foot leasing spreads all exclude the ownership of Brazil in the first quarter of 2014 despite the company's economic ownership during the quarter for purposes of better comparability going forward.
We continue to strive for sector-leading disclosure and look forward to your feedback on the current package.
At this point I'll stop and turn the call back to Dan for closing remarks.
Thanks David.
In conclusion we remain very optimistic about the continued transformation of our portfolio and our ability to now focus exclusively on our core business in core markets.
As David mentioned we are in an unprecedented position of liquidity and we will remain disciplined patient and creative in allocating capital with a focus on delivering long-term NAV growth and total shareholder return.
While there is much volatility in our sector due to new emerging companies management turnover and secession planning concerns we are not distracted by this noise but rather we like our position of stability and consistent performance and we are encouraged by the prospects for continued portfolio quality enhancement capital recycling and organic growth.
Again thank you for joining our call this morning.
I'll now turn the call back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Craig Schmidt from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering what you thought the total number of power centers in the nation was and your market share of that and if you're seeing a competition increase for the acquisition of these power centers like we're seeing in the other portion of this category? Well I'll tell you that's a great question Craig and it's hard to put your arms around it.
I know that -- and I know this is not a great answer but there's a lot of power centers and we own a small percentage of them.
So it's a relatively fragmented market.
Unlike the mall business which is highly consolidated the power center business is not.
While we are clearly a consolidator and we're very focused and we've differentiated ourselves as a result the opportunities in the market continue to be pretty significant.
I'll give you an example.
In the first quarter alone we saw 33 deals that we looked at across 19 states that we underwrote.
And the assets were worth about $1.6 billion.
And again this is just power centers that fit a very small criteria that we've employed.
The total square footage of those deals is 9.1 million square feet and the average deal size was about 300 000 square feet.
So there's a lot of things that we're looking at on a regular basis.
There's no shortage of product out there for us.
We are seeing some more competition than we've seen in the past particularly from some of the direct invest and sovereign wealth et cetera entities.
But we're not seeing as much competition from people who look at the assets on a core-plus basis and truly understand the value of leveraging an operating platform to enhance value of an asset that may even be 95% 96% 97% leased.
But when we put those assets into our platform and employ some of the things that Paul talked about and our tenant relations we're able to take a core asset to one person and make it a core-plus for us and we think that will sustain a lot of growth.
So we have a view of power centers in respective markets but our -- the total number is so large and our ownership percentage is so small that it rarely comes into our thinking and we feel the runway is very long.
Our next question will come from the line of Christy McElroy from Citi.
Research Division</strong> David just regarding the TALF mortgage loan that comes due in October can you remind me what's the timing for when you can pay that down? What are your plans for funding the paydown? And what are your plans for those assets once unencumbered? Are there any disposition opportunities in there? Yes.
The TALF facility has a maturity date in early October and a 90-day prepayment window before that.
Based on our budgeting at the beginning of the year the expectation was to refinance that loan primarily or exclusively with unsecured debt.
At this point with the considerable amount of liquidity that we have available the considerable amount of cash that we're sitting on today our expectation would be simply to repay that facility with cash on hand.
And so I think the goal overall and clearly the balance sheet strategy had been to increase the size and even the quality of the unencumbered pool and this should be a situation where we can increase that size and quality quite significantly without even adding any additional unsecured debt based on where we stand today with the disposition proceeds from U.S.
assets as well as from the Brazilian sale.
So I think we're very well positioned to deal with the only real maturity that we have this year and significantly enhance our credit metrics by unencumbering those assets.
Our next question will come from the line of Todd Thomas from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> This is Grant Keeney on for Todd.
I noticed in the lease expiration schedule that -- noticed the portfolio has been pruned over the last several quarters the average for rent per square foot in the inline basis tick down a bit especially in leases expiring next couple of years.
So it appears that those -- and given greater mark-to-market opportunity Paul you touched on some retaining opportunities in your opening remarks but can you update us on how much below market small-shop rents are in the overall portfolio and what that opportunity looks like today? Yes.
First thing you need to be aware of is those numbers that have come down with Brazil out of the mix and out of the metrics.
So Brazil with a significant amount of small-shop space particularly at higher rents than our portfolio average reduced the average rent per square foot to what you're seeing in the supplement.
Yet we think there's great upside in both the box space and the small-shop space.
No specific percentage but we're seeing great increases whether it's a new deal that we saw the 20% spread on a pro rata basis or the renewals in the high single digits.
Our goal as I've stated on a few of these calls is to get that renewal spread somewhere right around 10% or even north if we can.
That's going to come with extensions -- negotiated extensions that are not exercises of options.
About half of the renewable portfolio has options.
So we've been limited by that percentage.
But I would say we're continuing to see something in the high-teens on the new and in the high singles or low doubles on the renewal spreads.
Our next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan going back to your opening remarks about some proactive lease terminations that you guys are pursuing and the 40% upside that you've kind of already identified in 20 deals does that -- how much of that -- what percent of that basket includes Sears Office Depot type of leases versus other type of retailers? And do you -- I guess that's the first question.
Yes.
That's -- they're exclusively tenants that you would expect us to be doing these transactions with.
They're not the market share winners.
The reason why Ki Bin we can't name specific names or locations is because we have to be sensitive to the employees of those locations where the stores might be closing that haven't yet been notified by their employer that that store might close.
So we're sensitive to that.
But as Paul mentioned you can assume that it will be in the struggling sectors from a merchandising perspective across the board including books toys and office.
And in fact that list we expect to continue to increase over time.
It doesn't make any sense quite frankly to terminate a tenant that's performing at or above the sales-per-square-foot level in your center that's adding a merchandising mix to your center that makes you unique or that is being appreciated by the consumer.
But it makes perfect sense to try to remove the underperformers and folks where you're not quite sure where their merchandising strategy is going.
But you're going to have to deal with that problem down the road anyway in all likelihood.
So we might as well be proactive about it which is what we're trying to do.
And in this market where there's no new supply at all and the demand is incredibly high we think this is a unique period to effectuate these transactions.
And we hate to be on the other side and think that we missed this opportunity.
So that's why we're doing what we're doing.
But it is exactly as you said with more of the struggling tenants that are pretty well known to all in this call.
Our next question will come from the line of Paul Morgan from MLV.
Research Division</strong> Just on the leased rate breakdown on -- the under-5 000-square-feet got -- fell a bit sequentially.
Maybe if you could provide a little bit of color there whether that might have been affected by taking Brazil out? And then as you look from where you want to get toward the end of the year what are we going to see the drivers within the size buckets? Is it going to be the smaller shops is it going to be the bigger stores a little bit of color maybe? You got it Paul.
Yes you hit it on the head.
I mean the primary impact quarter-over-quarter was the elimination of the Brazil rate which was I think it was 96% Paul.
So obviously that had our average of the under-5 000-square-foot space a little higher.
If you look at apples-to-apples just the domestic and Puerto Rico we were basically flat quarter-over-quarter and up about 140 basis points year-over-year.
So still a very positive trend.
And again that all comes with the continued improvement of the portfolio whether it's sales and acquisitions more power center less community center.
We haven't changed our opinion that we can drive that less-than-5 000-square-foot category to 92% which would be a historical high by a couple of hundred basis points.
Consolidations kick into that and as I mentioned asset sales.
But clearly we're seeing great demand from the fast foods the McDonalds the Chick-fil-A the Five Guys Chipotle Panera some of the smaller non-food users Crazy 8 Claire's Justice Sally Beauty Massage Envy there's a long list.
So it's driven more by the nationals regionals and franchisees and not so much by the mom-and-pops even though we've seen a little more stability in that mom-and-pop category.
Our next question will come from the line of Andrew Schaffer from Sandler O'Neill.
Regards to your acquisition pipeline are you currently evaluating a JV as far as sheer size of potential acquisitions? Yes.
We constantly look at our JV pipeline as a source of potential deal for us.
As you know we don't control those assets and they open the disposition on those assets the way we obviously do a wholly-owned bucket though we do have certain governance rights depending on which joint venture it's in.
And if we decide with the partner that it's time to exit those assets and some of those assets obviously we have high interest in we certainly are in discussion with our partners for those properties.
A lot of our legacy JVs are -- have assets that we're not interested in.
And we think it's beneficial to take to the market and dispose of entirely particularly as it relates to our current -- our core strategy.
So yes we have a nice list of assets that we like very much.
No they're not all on the market.
No our partner doesn't want to sell them off at this time.
But that is a constant dialogue that occurs.
And there's certain pressures being put on internally and externally with partners and with the markets that could bring those assets to bear at any time in the future.
So it's something that's very very important to us.
It's important that we maintain our governance rights to the assets that we think are important to the franchise.
And it won't be inconsistent with what you saw when we did the transaction with Blackstone and DRA and a few others that we really purchase assets out of ventures.
So that will continue.
Our next question will come from the line of the Haendel St.
Juste from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Albert Lin for Haendel.
When we think about your disposition strategy going forward and the strong pricing that you're seeing in the B assets that you mentioned in your opening remarks? How do you think about balance between taking advantage of that pricing and making sure you have the right opportunity to redeploy that capital? I think you saw the perfect example of how we balance it with what we've announced so far this year.
Where obviously the ability to reinvest in a timely fashion is important but even more important is the ability to reinvest in an attractive fashion.
And so we did stomach some dilution for 2014 set-aside the increase our disposition budget both the Brazil sales but even more so the domestic assets where we've sold more or where we plan to sell more and those sales are happening particularly early in the year.
We will not compromise on the acquisition side but we still think we have very credible acquisition targets that this company and this platform can execute upon.
And so we made the challenging decision to accept a little lower growth in FFO per share this year because we thought the opportunity to sell more assets at attractive pricing was there.
And so I think that's the most clear way to answer that question as well as how we think about it going forward where the focus will continue to be on long-term growth the risk profile of this company and that asset value per share growth much more than 2014 FFO per share.
Our next question will come from the line of Jeremy Metz from UBS.
Research Division</strong> It's Ross Nussbaum here with Jeremy.
I've got a question on Page 14 of your earnings package here on the development side specifically you guys are showing just under $250 million of ground-up projects on hold another $55 million of JVs.
So my first question is can you give us an update on what the story is with those? And then the second part of the question is at the bottom of that page you're showing $206 million of booked value of land.
Is that separate from the projects on hold or is that sort of inclusive thereof? And maybe talk about all that.
Ross it's Paul.
First of all on the developments in progress and we talked about Kansas City Kansas which we've talked about before where we sold a big piece to Ikea to lead the project and we'll be completing that this year.
And Seabrook it's a great story that was a significant amount in our land-held for future development that we kicked off with the Wal-mart sale and now we'll be opening a full prime power center this summer center with the like of Dick's Michael's Ulta PetSmart in addition to the Wal-mart Panera.
So great stories.
JV there's one asset up in Toronto that we're still involved from a JV perspective which will ultimately be a Target anchored center.
So that will be preceding.
I didn't follow the question specifically on the inclusion of the $240 million.
But let me -- before turning it over to Dave but I will update you on -- we will continue to make great progress obviously with that land I think leverage to sales to non-retail users or pay at sales or development.
We have got a couple within that bank that we're talking about bringing that to the market in later this year or early next year one in Florida one in Connecticut.
The environment gets better the ability to develop gets better and we're making great progress in that regard.
Yes.
So Ross on the other piece of it yes the $200 million is included in that overall $240 million $250 million of overall projects that are still on hold.
It is land spread across the country North Carolina Orlando Connecticut Chicago a number of sites that were put on hold several years ago.
But we do expect to be able to monetize over time.
We do think they are appropriately valued on our balance sheet.
But obviously we're going to be prudent in putting additional capital into those then making sure that we got appropriate tenant interest and making sure we have the appropriate use for that land relative to what might have been planned 5 to 15 years ago when that land was originally acquired.
Our next question will come from the line of Jason White from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on your kind of landlord tenant balance of power and lease negotiations and really what you're seeing today from qualitative and quantitative aspects versus call it 2 or 3 years ago and what are you seeing swinging your favor other than just kind of market rents? Well there's a number of things that are strong in our favor and well you see it the market rents chase REIT.
We really do have a very different portfolio than we had 2 or 3 years ago.
So while tenant demand is great and it's important to drive -- in order to drive rents you need to have more than one person bidding on a space otherwise the leverage obviously swings the other way.
The impact of the improvement of the quality of the portfolio quite frankly we underestimated.
And -- or maybe said another way we underestimated the drag that poor asset had overall on the portfolio.
And I'll let Paul speak specifically to tenants but I will tell you that the amount of interest that we have on a per space basis is somewhat unprecedented.
Now one of the things you could say is that that's because there's no new supply and the supply demand dynamic has shifted very significantly in favor of the landlord.
I don't think that's true through for B and C space I think it's -- I think you have to combine the supply demand dynamic with the quality of the portfolio and that's what's leading to the fact that we can lease 3 million feet of space in our first quarter which is really unprecedented.
And we're also in a position where we can drive rents.
So quality of the portfolio in addition to the supply demand dynamic is what's really putting us in a position where we feel comfortable that we can sustain the growth that you've seen in the rental levels for quite some time.
Yes.
Competition is clearly the key and you can't overstate the demand that we're seeing from the best-in-class retailers.
The initiative I talked about in the prepared remarks about proactive recapture of anchored space.
This is not something we consider 4 or 5 years ago.
I just couldnt afford another legacy.
Now it is how do we get -- first of all we sit down with all of those retailers who are growing and you hear us talk about them all the time.
That was the TJs or the Bed Baths or the Dick's and the Ross's of the world -- and the Rack's.
And we know where they want to be and to be in that position where we can help them get space through some of our proactive but less of initiatives is just -- it's wonderful spot to be in as a landlord with quality space.
I think Jason just keep in mind it's a pulse point.
It is not that we're really all that smart or we're guessing where they want to be.
The relationship with the tenant is so important because #1 they can rely on us as to deliver of space on time on budget when they need it which is very important certainty of execution is very important for the tenant.
But the other side of it is when they tell us where they want to be and the type of asset class that they want to be in who the co-tenant should be and this is why.
And they can explain to us the importance of the merchandising mix and cotenancy from a consumer lease activity standpoint.
We don't have to do a lot of guessing.
These retailers know exactly who the consumer is where they want to go how to reach them the type of merchandise they want to see what the product mix should be et cetera.
So we have the benefit of strong relationships that give us a competitive advantage in knowing what it is that we should be pursuing to whom we should be leasing and what the centers and the quality of the merchandising should look like.
So it's again paying attention to the market and it's very very important to do that right now more than ever because as you know the markets are moving incredibly fast.
Retail is evolving at a speed we have never seen it before.
And so it's even more important to stay in front of the tenant than ever before.
Our next question will come from the line of David Harris from Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave I have question for you and maybe I missed this do forgive me.
What was the Brazilian sale net to? It is $344 million of cash to us.
So if you want to think about gross asset value we are also reducing our amount of pro rata debt because there is some net debt down essential but not significant of $344 million is our net number there is extremely little friction based on the structure and tax planning that we have done in getting that capital back to us.
And so you're talking about basis points.
If you're talking about friction off of that $344 million figure.
So that's the right number to think about in terms of capital back to us and the reinvestment opportunity.
Our next question will come from the line of Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just curious.
In the quarter it seems as if the tenant reimbursement rate was higher than usual just curious if it was anything unique to the quarter? Yes.
It's just going to end up being the controllable or the reimbursable expenses were higher and so you see the proportion of variable expenses that the tenants reimbursed for were higher during the quarter.
And so you see that reimbursement rate higher.
It's absolutely our goal to minimize the volatility maximize the predictability both for purposes of the street as well as very importantly for purposes of the tenants so they know what their costs are going to be.
However there are certainly certain periods of time where there is weather other items that do lead to expenses being higher but the strength of our leases and high quality and the high occupancy of our portfolio positions us to recapture.
The overwhelming majority of that from the tenant.
So that's why you saw expenses a bit higher but also the reimbursement rates much higher.
Research Division</strong> Is there something I mean are you changing the lease terms I'm just kind of curious why is it just so unique to this quarter and we should expect a higher reimbursement rate going forward or? No any quarter can be a bit off it's tough to learn too much from any one period especially with the way that some of these expenses can be volatile.
And obviously accounting requires us to -- when we bill it when we expect to receive it it's all booked during that period.
And so you do see some quarterly volatility but I don't think we're pointing to any major change overall.
Longer term I do think a higher-quality portfolio will generate a higher reimbursement rate.
And so over a long period of time I think you continue to see gradual improvement with a better portfolio and more highly leased portfolio but I wouldn't read too much into this quarter.
Our next question will come from the line of Rich Moore from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was looking at what Office Depot was saying yesterday.
I think they're looking at closing 400 of their 1900 Depot-Max combination stores over the next couple of years and I was curious first of all if you had heard from them about specific store closings in your portfolio? And then if you haven't which I'm guessing you might not have they said they want to close a 150 this year and I'm thinking they'd probably do that with stuff at least if they don't own it that is near-term lease expirations so I'm curious what your lease expirations scheduled for those guys this year looks like? Yes you're correct.
What you're going to see this year is probably going to be a longer lease term near-term lease expiration schedule.
Couple of points to make with Office Depot they have not identified about 400 at this point and they've been very clear about that.
They're actually going through an extensive study as we speak.
As we've talked about since the merger was first announced over a year ago I mean we see this as a tremendous opportunity.
Clearly a company that we've been in discussion with well ahead of any closing announcements that may come out of the announcement of 400 over the next few years.
We never sit back and we're certainly not sitting back in this Office Depot situation waiting for retailers to contact us and tell us what they want to close what they feel they need to close.
Our approach is clearly to talk about spaces where we can work together whether it's is downsizing recaptures or other deals we can make with them.
And I would tell you we're well ahead of the curve in knowing what's going to happen with the Office Depot portfolio within the DDR portfolio.
Our next question will come from the line of Jim Sullivan from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was curious Dan and Paul I guess the -- in your April 1 release the 3 assets under agreement one was identified as being in downtown Chicago and of course we tend not to associate downtown locations with power-center-type assets.
As you continue to refine the portfolio and I was curious of David's comments about lower prime assets being identified and put up to market -- put on market.
I'm curious whether you're looking to be more urban more dense where demographics will be stronger perhaps and in terms of where you want to put your capital where you see better returns? And I'm curious Paul if you could kind of opine on this when you talk to retailers about where they want to be besides in your existing portfolio are they skewing to more urban markets as well? Let me start with that last piece Jim I mean urban is obviously a myth from many retailers out there.
Very very difficult to pull off.
So I would tell you that across the board the retailers we speak to will love an urban environment.
I think of our midtown Miami project which you certainly can consider very very successful.
In fact a little piece in the journal this morning about how hot that market is in terms of residential and retail.
We got a situation there with Loehmann's going out and the best-in-class price retailer coming in.
That's an urban project.
What we're talking about in Chicago is clearly a power center retailers we're talking about that we deal with every day and that gets for example TJ in a multi-level but 2 level environment works very very well.
So A do they want urban absolutely.
Is there a lot of urban available not at all.
And where we see opportunities to deal with retailers we deal with every day in an environment that works for us we're going to look very hard at.
The other thing to keep in mind about the urban the reason why there's not a lot available is that they typically how we subsidize deal.
These are very expensive.
Not only is the land is expensive but the infrastructure becomes expensive often requiring parking decks and lots of vertical transportation et cetera.
And a lot of the power center tenants unless there's a subsidy available through our public-private partnership et cetera don't pay the rents that support that kind of development which is exactly why you don't see to your point a lot of these types of developments.
That's also the reason why when we saw one that we really liked and they we're excited about we jumped all over because we think it's going to be extremely unique similar to what we have for example if you look in Miami and our midtown Miami project which has been great success.
But complicated projects dealing with the municipalities dealing with the tenants very difficult for the tenant to be able to get their proto-typical building under any construct in urban environment.
So there need to be a lot of store planning and design revisions.
So it's going to make this type of project very rare and -- but also very valuable which is why we felt excited and we were aggressive in pursuing it.
Our next question will come from the line Vincent Chao from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I dont know if I missed this but I was just curious after these $400 million dispositions are completed this year wondering what -- where that would put your percentage of NOI from prime assets add and given the demand that you're seeing for the B assets or the noncore assets just curious if there's an opportunity to get rid of it all or if that would even make sense as that -- maybe that's a source of redevelopment opportunity? That non-prime buckets continues to get much smaller the inventory there is down significantly.
That said we continue to refine our internal portfolio management process where I don't think you're ever going to see it get to 0 because there's always going to be something then that we think we're best positioned to regrade to whether it's our exact old definition of non-prime or not it represents either the greatest risk of the lease growth opportunity within the portfolio and so I think we're going to continue to see a pool there.
The great news is there's no pressure on us to have to generate liquidity through asset sales the way that there would have been 5 years ago.
And so to be there's a strong transaction market which we would absolutely say that there is today.
You'll see us execute on a larger volume of dispositions.
In your past you heard us talk about our power center thesis in a major mispricing of the asset class where you saw a significant net acquirers and so I think for us there's going to be the constant focus on evaluating the opportunities within our portfolio evaluating the opportunities within assets that we don't own but could acquire and then focus on the transactions market to see if it's the right time to be a net buyer or net seller and we have found recently that accelerating that sales volume is the right thing to do.
So based on simple math with a static portfolio you could certainly see that pool of non-prime assets get down to 5% or so remembering that some of those are held in joint ventures where our partners have considerable rights to hold those assets.
So from a static pool you'll see that percentage of non-prime assets get lower but I think for us it's just a constant portfolio management process of saying where should we be taking capital from in terms of higher risks and lower growth assets in order to be able to reallocate that elsewhere even if there is some timing lag associated with that.
Our next question will come from the line of Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up.
I think you mentioned 50% of your leases have options.
I wasnt sure if you meant if that's small shop and large and could you just quickly describe what is the typical option look like to language? Yes.
Typical option language keep would include 10% would be typical there.
There's these differences some larger some little smaller but 10% increases at the time of the options.
So it's not like we're just renewing at flat-rates.
Higher percentage of the box phase we have options than the small shops.
Gives us the ability to drive the higher rent per square foot.
The smaller shops average rent being north of 20% and many of those that we got options the box space with a lower rent I'd say that's more a little higher than 50% but overall it's 50% across the portfolio.
Our next question will come from the line of Chris Lucas from Capital One Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Guys you talked a lot about remerchandising of existing centers and the tenant demand for that.
I have the question as it relates to new center development.
And I guess the way I want to think about this is are you feeling any closer to having conversations with key retailers on new center development? And I guess the question that sort of the natural follow-up is where are we as it relates to pricing in other words what's that gap between the kinds of returns you guys would need to pencil in to actually do something and where the rents are from those anchors and how is that trended say between where we are today and a year ago? Well first of all we're more focused on the ground-up development Chris it's been land that we held in our pool for a number of years.
So if the economy improved the markets improve retail and demand is improved.
We've seen the ability to get to that point where we can develop those at attractive returns.
And so that's obviously means that the rents are continuing to grow.
We did one project down in Charlotte that opened June of 2013 which is one of the brought out of private developer and jumped in and finished the project quickly at returns north of 10%.
So we're seeing the rents get to a point where the discussions had heated up.
I mentioned earlier on the call about a couple of other pieces one in Florida one in Connecticut where the demand rents competition for the space as Dan talked about earlier is now driving our desire to get those things out of the ground in the next 9 to 12 months.
I think its' important to know Chris to keep in mind that the reason why we're not seeing development isn't necessarily the gap in pricing between landlord and tenant.
The pricing with retailers today is okay.
You can justify reasonable market rents for a new development project.
The problem that we face is #1 you have landownership who think their land is worth a lot more than it truly is.
So that's not okay.
So the pricing with the landowners is not okay and the entitlement risk is not okay.
So because that process in and of itself creates so much uncertainty that on a risk-adjusted basis if you look at where you want to put your capital the returns just aren't compelling.
And pricing with retailers is just one small component that's not small it's important but it's just one component of many that have to be factored into your risk-adjusted returns conversation.
And while tenants sure would love to see some new product go up because we have many tenants that are missing their open to buy because there's not enough opportunity in the market.
So they would obviously like to see new projects.
And they're not going to pay above market but they certainly willing to pay market rents.
The other components necessary to bring a project out of the ground are still overly burdensome today where we have other opportunities for our capital where we get a better risk-adjusted return.
And I think that's going to continue for quite some time.
One of the things you are seeing you're seeing a little more development in the grocery anchor neighboring center category that doesn't compete with us and we're seeing almost no new product in the power center category and I think the reason why is people just truly have better places to put their capital on a risk-adjusted basis.
Our next question will come from the line of David Harris from Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering in the context of the sales and liquidity that you referenced and you cautioned about redeploying capital where do you think we're going to be on the net debt to EBITDA basis or any other metric that you might want to focus on from a balance sheet leverage perspective? And do you think probably by year end as probably the time frame and do you think -- where do you think you want to be with this company in the medium term on that ratio? Yes.
Net debt to EBITDA it's certainly something that we focus on and something that you've seen decline considerably over the last several years and we never want it to be misunderstood that we think we're done yet.
We think we're done with the dilutive part of it but certainly not done with the continued improvement of this balance sheet.
So from -- on a pro rata basis including all of our pro rata share of joint venture debt we're in mid-7s today and we would expect that to get down to the mid-6s over a multiyear period in time short-term as we sit on this additional liquidity will make considerable progress on that but we do expect to redeploy the majority of these proceeds.
Over time I also think there are just some things that that calculation misses whether it's one the quality of the EBITDA that we're producing today the longer-term duration that comes from higher credit quality tenants of higher quality centers.
So it's not really more stable cash flow with cash flow or EBITDA that's much more likely to grow over time.
But I think there are also just some simple definitional items there that are important to note such as -- there is no restructure in Brazil.
There is no notion of a restructure being created in Brazil.
That means we were full corporate taxpayer down there and so you can talk about EBITDA as much as you like but that -- key is the taxes and we were absolutely paying those taxes.
And so there are sales like that that on a pure cap rate basis might show up as more dilutive to that metric where you're selling it around 8.5% cap rate versus the after-tax that your -- where your reinvestment hurdle for neutrality is really in the 7% range.
And so I think for us it's the focus on the quality of the EBITDA the quality and the duration of the debt we'll continue to improve.
But you'll also absolutely continue to see progress in debt to EBITDA and with the liquidity that we have today you'll see that accelerating over the next couple of quarters although as I mentioned we do plan and hope to reinvest a large portion of that capital.
And so you won't see the entirety of that benefit over time but you're certainly going to see a point or so lower debt to EBITDA over the next few years.
Our next question will come from the line of Jim Sullivan from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
A very quick follow-up and this is for you David.
The -- I think you made reference to some financing activity in Puerto Rico in your prepared comments I could be wrong on that but I'm just curious if you can help us understand whether there have been any recent data points be it in terms of financing or transactions that can help us understand where cap rates have been moving in Puerto Rico to the extent they are moving at all? And to what extent there's a spread between the U.S.
cap rates and Puerto Rico? Sure.
The bad news is we don't have grades recent empirical evidence either on the financing side or on the transaction side.
And so there's nothing easy that we can point to the way that we can say cap rates for mainland assets have clearly gone down based on recent transactional activity.
It's one of the reasons that you appropriately identify we did make comments in the prepared remarks about pursuing a mortgage financing on an asset in Puerto Rico just to highlight that lenders do continue to be focused on the quality of the asset and quality of the cash flows much more than the macro headlines regarding the island.
We've heard some people ask the question that should we take muni bond rates in Puerto Rico and add some spread to that to think about what debt cost would be for an asset on the island and then add something even to that to think about what cap rates would be on the island.
And I think for us the importance even in the position today where we have too much liquidity the importance for us in executing on a new non-recourse very standard mortgage loan on the island is simply to highlight that long term comfortably sub-4% debt does exist and it is a lending -- group of lenders focused on the quality of the asset the quality of the underlying cash flow is much more than the macro headlines.
So no empirical evidence to say cap rates are here or there.
But I do think lending costs are very comparable to major U.S.
markets for quality assets with comparable underlying U.S.
tenants paying that rent.
Historically supply constraints have been dramatically higher on the island.
And so we continue to think there are enough indicators that would say the opportunity for cash flow stability and considerable cash flow growth on the island is significant and so cap rates shouldn't be any difference than what we've seen around the mainland U.S.
Our next question will come from the line of Jeff Donnelly from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a single follow-up question to the earlier line of questioning on anchor development economics.
How do you think about the prospect of the anchor boxes at malls specifically the junior anchor and maybe reconfigured anchor boxes spaces that could available.
I think these are spaces that typically have very low in-place rent and while CapEx is certainly needed to reconfigure them for a power center user I would suspect landlords there are probably more have to do defensive deals and it could be something of a cheaper channel for new stores than ground-up construction like you see that with Dick's.
Do you think that's a really tangible theme or do you expect that those opportunities are going to prove to be few and far between just because power center tends to find the mall unappealing? We'll continue to see some of that Jeff.
But I would tell you that while I wouldn't classify it as few and far between we've been talking about the space that may become available in the mall sector for a lot of years now.
Sears Penny many are struggling anchor they're still there and I dont see that space becoming available tomorrow.
The retailers the junior boxes that we speak with and meet with regularly will tell us that that's clearly not their first choice.
First choice is going to be the power center format that's where they grew that's where they -- they made their markets how their growing market share.
There will be some situations and you mentioned Dick's this is guy what their gallons takeover and other deals that made as Dick's they got a little bit of a mall preference.
But the preference is going to continue to be in the power center format and I don't think we're going to see a great availability other than maybe in some of the B and C malls and tertiary markets but that's not where these best-in-class junior boxes are going to be focused.
I think though as a practical manner when you are on the retail side of the business and you are faced with a decision of either missing a market or taking an unconventional or non-prototypical space you have to really think hard about going into an atypical location and being flexible and I think it just makes good sense for our center tenants to look at availabilities in malls if in fact they have no other way to effectively get into the market.
So I don't see it as a competitor to space that we may have available but I do see it as a viable opportunity for our tenants to continue to meet their open to buy needs if in fact they can't get into their preferred asset class.
And that just makes good sense and there are people out there that are doing a terrific job in the B mall universe right now spending lots of time with our tenants.
So we know what's being discussed our tenants discuss a lot of what's happening out there with us and you don't give up markets particularly if you have no new developments or there's no new way get in.
But tenants in our sector would prefer to see newer development quite frankly where they can put a prototypical box in which is the most efficient and also the most profitable box they can build.
But that's just not happening and I don't think that's going to happen.
So I think the smart retailers today the once that grab market share should consider what's available in a regional mall and a number of them are.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes our questions.
The presentation has now concluded.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning and thank you for joining the Second Quarter 2014 DDR Corp.
Earnings Call.
My name is Ryan.
Ill be the operator on the event and at this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will be opening the call to facilitate questions and answers.
And at that time we do ask that you limit yourself to one question before putting yourself back into the queue.
(Operator instructions) And as a reminder we are recording the call for replay.
And now I will pass the call over to your host Ms.
Meghan Finneran Financial Analyst.
Thanks Ryan.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On todays call you will hear from CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo; and President and CFO David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statement may be forward looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand that these statement are subject to risk and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 as amended.
In addition we will discussing non-GAAP financial measures on todays call including FFO and operating FFO.
Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplements are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
Last we will be observing a one-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
At this time its my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Meghan.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Id like to start todays call by reiterating that we are very pleased with the consistency and the strength of the operating results achieved during the second quarter and the strategic transactions we announced since our last earnings release.
Our second quarter results mark a pivotal point in the continued execution of our strategic plan as we closed on the sale of our investment in Brazil identified an attractive user proceeds and formed our their joint venture with Blackstone to acquire prime assets and posted strong operating results with more than 3 million square feet of leasing completed in the quarter and new leasing spreads of 19%.
While the near-term benefits of these accomplishments are obvious the longer-term positive impact of this quarter will be realized for many years to come and significantly enhances our ability to focus on our core business.
As the back-to-school season approaches Id like to take a moment to address the significance of this selling season the impact it has on our retailers and the trends we are following in the market.
Back-to-school was the second retail season of the year and a time when retailers are highly invested in their inventory level as goods have been purchased for both back-to-school and the Christmas Holiday by this point in time.
Over the past few weeks we have seen a steady increase in retail sales due to improve weather pent-up demand and those increased inventory levels at each of our retailers.
As a result retailers are beginning back to school sales earlier than in past years to further incentivize consumers to shop and realize gains and market share.
Not all sales and promotional activity however should be viewed as an indicator that retail sales are in a slump and tenants are getting anxious to simply move product.
In fact most early promotions are well-planned and margins will be maintained for those retailers.
With the highly promotional 2013 holiday season still linger the consumers unwillingness to pay full price and the necessity of offering verifiable value retailers are carefully planning their sales and product offerings as promotions remain the primary motivation for consumer spending.
In regard to merchandising trends we continue to observer strong demand for branded goods at discount prices further demonstrating our preference for merchants offering this product type.
For example we are witnessing value-oriented retailers such as Coles offering a much broader assortment of branded goods this back-to-school season.
The back-to-school season is indicative of the coming holiday season and it will be very important to identify which retails won consumer dollars and which lost market share.
After a long winter and spring and the slow transition into summer the next few months will surely be an exciting time to study retail trends and follow merchandising strategies.
Rest assured we will be spending a lot of time surveying the tenant universe through a variety of store visits.
As we focus on the delivery of goods to the consumer it is impossible and imprudent not to consider the impact of technology and the disruption it has had on the retail landscape over the past several years.
Technology and retail has been and continues to be a significant topic of discussion and Id like to take a few minutes to address the confluence of technology in the brick-and-mortar retail operations.
As we continue to observe the lines of distinction between the physical store the virtual world blur the retail industry is steadily undergoing a progressive transformation that is providing consumers with more convenience in value than ever before.
From innovative mobile technology that continues to drive foot traffic and sales at bricks-and-mortar locations to buy online pick in store and ship from store initiatives brick-and-mortar retailers are continuously evolving their operational capacity.
To date retail efforts show real promise as they not only translate to enhanced operational efficiencies but also progressively fulfilling shopping expectations of the consumer.
Overall the impact of technology on our universe of retailers has been exceedingly positive.
As the most successful and profitable retails of the industry continue to be those that have established both a strong physical and online presence and are striving to achieve an integrated omnichannel operating platform.
One concept we continue to observe growth and expansion is that of buy online pick up in store.
Examples of tenants within our portfolio offering and continuing to roll out the convenience of buy online pick up in store include Wal-Mart Target Bed Bath and Beyond PetSmart Dicks Sporting Goods Best Buy Home Depot Lowes DSW Nordstrom Rack and Whole Fruits.
We are also seeing our retail partners growing their ship-from-store initiatives which will allow stores to double as distribution facilities and offer retailers operational efficiencies that were previously unrecognized.
Even fast casual restaurant tenants are realizing the advantages of investing in technology for the benefit of their brick-and-mortar operations offering consumers the ability to place online and mobile orders for convenient pick up Panera Bread and Chipotle represent two innovative fast casual operators leading the transformation with the restaurant sector.
We continue to see significant investment activity from retailers and restaurant operators as they aim to provide consumers with desirable experiences associated with both the physical and the virtual realms.
It is important to note that in the vast majority of cases technology integration in the retail industry is focused on enhancing the bricks-and-mortar experience whether synchronizing a website with local store inventory for successful buy online pick up in store fulfillment investing in an algorithm to launch an efficient ship from store program or developing a mobile application with an array of in-store capabilities retailers investing in technology are directly investing in their physical presence.
As our tenants in the retail industry as a whole continues to adapt and evolve in an ever changing environment so too has our portfolio of prime power centers.
As previously announced we formed our third joint venture with Blackstone to acquire 76 shopping centers from ARCP for $1.975 billion.
The 16.4 million square foot portfolio primarily consist of prime power centers located in large markets like Los Angeles Houston Denver Chicago Atlanta Washington DC and Phoenix and is occupied by high-quality retailers including Whole Fruits Trader Joes The Fresh Market Costco Target Wal-Mart Coles Dicks Sporting Goods Bed Bath and Beyond and the TJX Companies.
Within an expected closing of mid-September this transaction further enhances our partnership with a best-of-breed capital partner as we again team up to create value in ways that align with our respective investment philosophies.
This transformation showcases our continued ability to efficiently recycle capital and further advance our portfolio transformation.
Having an underwriting history that dates back to several months prior to deal announcement we have identified significant opportunities to enhance the value of the portfolio through active portfolio management.
We are confident in our ability to generate outsized asset level growth by leveraging our proven operating platform and have appropriately structured our investment to produce attractive risk-adjusted returns while securing access to acquisition opportunities in the future.
We look forward to maximizing value for our shareholders as we capitalize on the many opportunities available to us through the newly announced portfolio our existing portfolio and the future opportunities that we are currently pursuing in the market.
At this point Id like to turn the call over to Paul.
Thanks Dan.
Strong leasing momentum continued in the second quarter resulting in 364 new deals and renewals for 3.1 million square feet matching the highest quarterly deal volume in company history.
Similarly spreads were also indicative of the strong leasing environment with an 18.8% pro rata new deal spread and 7.5% pro rata renewal spread.
Our 2.4 million square feet of renewals represents that highest quarterly volume in company history and is further evidence that retailers are focused on securing high-quality locations in prime power centers.
While I typically spend some time addressing the supply-and-demand dynamics we all know that it remains heavily in the landlords favor as demonstrated by our quarterly results.
Instead Id like to focus on how were taking advantage of this environment to continue to grow NOI and improve portfolio quality through our previously announced Project Accelerate initiative as well as ground up development.
As we announced in late May and discussed with many of you at Nayreed [ph] Project Accelerate is allowing us to collaborate with retailers in the books electronics toys office and traditional department store categories to regain control of locations in advance of natural lease expirations where we can then re-merchandise our assets with market share winning tenants and recognize rental upside of 30% to 40%.
As we have discussed before this is an ongoing multi-year initiative and we continue to work with these retailers on a regular basis to right-size their real-estate footprints.
As such in addition to the 21 previously announced recaptured boxes representing 550 000 square feet of prime power center space we have finalized deals to recapture an additional five boxes totaling 160 000 square feet in prime assets in Boston Miami Charleston and Rowley [ph].
Its important to remember that while were finalizing deals in 2014 to proactively recapture space the benefits of the remerchandising and the mark-to-market opportunities will commence in the second half of 2015.
Additionally with the ability to know for certain which spaces we are recapturing we have the ability to sign leases in advance of store closings limiting the impact to our lease rate and resulting in minimal downtime.
While we are certainly sensitive to our retail partners who have not yet informed their employees of specific store closing I would like to provide a few examples of our success with this initiative.
In the books category we have several great examples underway.
In one instance at a 530 000 square foot prime power center were backfilling a 24 000 square foot Barnes &amp; Noble with Ulta and GAP Factory Outlet at a blended comp of 100%.
This will enhance the centers overall merchandise mix with two best-in-class retailers drive NAV and provide enhanced credit quality of cash flow.
In a separate 165 000 square foot prime power center we are replacing a 23 000 square foot barns with a new Fresh Market at a 20% positive rent comp and introducing a grocery component to the center driving daily traffic.
This will result in further upside in adjacent space as those leases come up for renewal and reduce the overall cap rate of the asset due to the markets infatuation with grocers.
In our final example which takes place in a 1 million square foot prime power center we are splitting the 28 000 square foot barns box into several units featuring White House Black Market Five Below and Carters resulting in a significant positive rent comp of over 130% adding exciting new retailers to the mix and outperforming the original underwriting assumed at acquisition in 2013.
In the office category we have been strategically partnering with Office Depot as they right size their footprint.
One example is the recapturing of a 23 000 square foot office max box at a 220 000 square foot prime power center acquired in 2013 providing the spark for a larger redevelopment.
After recapturing this box we will proceed with the downsizing of the adjacent and oversized DSW.
With the office max recaptured and DSW downsized we can then accommodate a Nordstrom Rack dramatically improving the merchandise mix credit quality and traffic at our center.
Additionally the new Nordstrom Rack deal represents an 80% rent comp on the office max space and 40% positive comp on DSW space.
A second example is in a 435 000 square foot prime power center acquired in 2012 where we will recapture and split an Office Depot box for Ulta and Carters achieving a blended comp of 100% and driving both stability and growth well beyond our initial underwriting of this asset.
While these are just a few examples of the types of deals we are making they demonstrate that by recapturing below-market leases we are driving incremental growth improving the credit quality of cash flow further positioning our asset as dominant shopping centers enhancing the merchandize mix offerings and eliminating potential risk with certain retailers.
The list of retailers we are dealing with to back fill the recaptured space goes well beyond those named above and include Shoe Carnival Cost Plus World Market Total Wine Bed Bath and Beyond Academy Sports Ross Marshalls HomeGoods and many more.
The concept of incentivizing our leasing team to create vacancy in highly unusual in our business but it speaks to the opportunities presented by the current supply-demand dynamic and the dramatic transformation of our portfolio quality over the past several years.
Also directly related to strong retail demand one of the key takeaways from our 1 000 plus meetings at this years ICFD [ph] in Las Vegas but that retailers are now willing to commit to new develop projects without requiring a major tenant.
As a result weve made exciting steps towards effectively monetizing our existing land bank through ground-up development and Id like to take a moment to update you on that progress.
For those in attendance at our Charlotte Investor Day this past October you will recall Belgate Shopping Center which represented our first ground-up development in over four years.
Belgate opened ahead of schedule in May of 2013 and is a 100% lease 900 000 square foot power center located in Charlotte anchored by IKEA and a complimentary line up of junior anchors including Marshalls Ulta Old Navy PetSmart Cost Plus World Market Hobby Lobby Shoe Carnival.
Given the projects success we are now finalizing a second phase of this project which will represent 75 000 square feet of space occupied with other best-in-class junior anchors while continuing to achieve an unlevered cash on cost return in excess of 10%.
As you saw earlier this month we announced the grand opening of Seabrook Commons our most recent ground-up development project located Seabrook New Hampshire a northern suburb of Boston.
Seabrook Commons is a 96% lease 380 000 square foot power center anchored by Wal-Mart Dicks Sporting Goods PetSmart Michaels Ulta Famous Footwear and Five Below and includes a complementary restaurant line of consisting of Panera Outback Steakhouse and Noodles &amp; Company.
The opening of Seabrook Commons which achieved an 8% unlevered return on incremental capital results in the second consecutive year that we have added a fully stabilized prime power center to the portfolio through ground-up development.
In a few weeks we will officially break ground on Gilford Commons a 130 000 square foot power center consisting of three junior anchors including a specialty grocer and 40 000 square feet of shop and specialty space located just east of New Haven Connecticut.
With a planned opening in the second half of 2015 and projected unlevered incremental yield of 8% this project will represent our third consecutive year of delivering a new ground-up development project.
Lastly we will be breaking ground on a multi-phase development project in Orlando Florida later this fall with an expected opening of the first phase in fall of 2015.
Once complete Lee Vista will span 450 000 square feet and will be anchored by theater or for a lineup of best-in-class junior anchor retailers and consist of an array of high-quality restaurant operators.
This mix will take advantage of an abundance of surrounding office space dense hotel offerings at close proximity to Orlando International Airport.
Lee Vista will represent our fourth consecutive year of delivering a new group-up development project and were projecting an 8.5% yield on incremental invested capital.
These strategic development projects enable us to assist the external growth aspirations of our retail partners monetize our land bank and achieve attractive returns on incremental invested capital.
As the supply-and-demand dynamic continues to heavily favor the landlord community we are accelerating our efforts to take advantage by being extremely aware that our industry is cyclical and opportunities are often fleeting.
As highlighted by Project Accelerate our recent ability to generate new NOI through ground-up development and our previously discussed $1 billion redevelopment pipeline we are continuing to find creative ways to grow NOI improve merchandise mix enhance credit quality of cash flow and expand the overall market share of our portfolio all in an effort to not only benefit from the current landlord favorable environment but also to deliver long-term stability in any economic environment.
And I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $101.3 million or $0.28 per share for the second quarter including non-operating items.
FFO for the quarter was $82.1 million or $0.23 per share.
Non-operating items primarily consisted of impairments related to land held for development that is currently being sold.
The second quarter was again representative of DDRs execution of its strategic transactional and balance sheet objectives.
First we closed on the acquisition of four prime power centers three of which were sourced off market for $265 million.
These acquisitions were focused in the top-30 MSAs and included anchors such as Target Costco and Whole Fruits.
The most significant acquisition was the Maxwell a 240 000 square foot prime plus power center locate Chicago South Loop.
The Maxwell features an impressive lineup of junior anchors including Nordstrom Rack Dicks Sporting Goods and T.J.
Maxx sits directly adjacent to Whole Foods and offers a demographic profile of household incomes on $105 000 and population of 681 000 people in the trade area.
DDR previously made a $21 million mezzanine loan on the project that was accompanied by advantageous acquisition rights allowing for a seamless acquisition prior to completion and stabilization with additional upside for DDR given the 90% lease rate.
We closed on the acquisition in May for $118 million and we expect the majority of the NOI to come online in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The acquisition was partially financed by the issuance of 1 million OP units in order to provide tax efficiency and the remainder of the acquisition was financed through asset sale proceeds.
Another acquisition that I would like to highlight is Waterstone Crossing [ph] a 425 000 square foot prime power center in Cincinnati that is anchored by Target and Costco.
DDR sourced the acquisition off market as a result of a strong local relationship which allowed us to achieve much more attractive pricing than a marketed sale for a class A center in a large market providing for significant net asset value creation before we even plug the center into our platform.
DDR not only achieved favorable pricing but we will look to increase the yields by bringing in top-tier organic grocer to the asset in the coming months to replace a weaker merchant.
We also announced that we have formed a 95-5 joint venture with Blackstone to acquire 76 assets from American Reality Capital Partners for $1.975 billion.
The acquisition is scheduled to close in late 3Q subject to loan assumptions.
Consistent with previous acquisitions and joint-venture with Blackstone DDR secured acquisition rights to the top-tier assets which represent 10 of the 76 assets with over 40% of the total value.
As Dan mentioned this transaction continues to build on our deep relationship with Blackstone and highlights the partnerships ability to source off-market opportunities below market pricing.
On the domestic disposition side we sold 11 operating assets and six land parcels or $51 million at DDR share and we currently have $335 million of operating and non-producing assets under contract for sale.
Additionally we also completed the sale of our Brazilian investment for net proceeds of $344 million a transaction that dramatically simplifies our company and decreases our risk profile.
The remaining wholly-owned non-prime assets now consist of only 32 assets down from nearly 200 shopping centers at the end of 2009 and all of which are either being marketed for sale or a subject to either pending leases or anchor rollover in the short term.
Regarding disposition pricing for the full year 2014 we estimate a blended cap rate in the low 7% range comprised of mid-7% pricing on operating assets that we are selling into a strong market as well non-producing land.
On the capital market side DDR also notes the closing of a $75 million nonrecourse mortgage loan secured by Plaza Escorial and 636 000 square foot shopping center in Puerto Rico.
The loan was completed with a leading life insurance company and included a 7-year term and a fixed interest rate of under 3.6%.
The financing highlights the strong property level supply-demand fundamentals and the attractive financing environment that continues to exist on the island despite the macroeconomic headwinds.
In July DDR paid off a $304 million balance of the [indiscernible] and previously secured 27 prime assets and a loaned value in the 30% range further reinforcing our desire to grow the sides of our unencumbered tool which now stands at $6.5 billion up from $3.6 billion in 2009.
Disposition proceeds and plus the carry on [ph] loan were immediately utilized to repay the [indiscernible].
However we will look to issue long duration on secured bottom [ph] in the second half of 2014 to replace the CMBS debt at a comparable rate.
Finally as a result of the significant transaction and capital markets activity I would like to address DDRs sources and uses of capital for the remainder of 2014 and the subsequent impact on operating FFO guidance.
As we currently stand we are on target to exceed our current guidance for both acquisitions and disposition activity.
Year-to-date we are closer on a contract to acquire $296 million of one off acquisition plus $384 million associated with DDR share on the ARCP acquisition totaling $680 million.
Disposition activity including assets under contract includes $548 million domestically and $344 million in net proceeds associated with the sale of our Brazilian investment totaling $892 million.
The transaction activity highlights DDRs desire to be a net seller in 2014 given a strong pricing environment and further reinforces the lack of need for equity issue in trade or transactional activity or debt repayment for the remainder of the year.
For some recent commentaries that encourages us to remind analysts and investors that neither investment nor refinancing activity will be funded from our line of credit for a long period of time.
So it is much more appropriate that we might have a long-term debt issuance in the next several quarters.
At this point Ill stop and turn the call over to Dan for closing remarks.
Thanks David.
Before turning the call over to questions I would like to let you know that we are planning to host a property tour in Atlanta on November 4th in conjunction with Navy [ph].
As many of you know Atlanta represents our largest market by square footage and second largest market by base strength and highlights numerous assets that clearly illustrate our investment thesis.
Following the tour we will host a dinner during which you will have unlimited access to ask senior management team as well as our local management team from our Atlanta office which is responsible for 116 assets totaling more than 30 million square feet in Georgia Alabama the Carolinas Tennessee and Virginia.
We look forward to our productive day and exchanging thoughts with those of you who can make the trip to Atlanta that would like to join us.
Again thank you for joining us today.
Ill now turn the call over to the operator for your questions.
(Operator instructions) Our first questions come to you from Christy McElroy with Citi.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning.
As recourse is built out there by online and pick up in a store and other initiatives the high eCommerce the bricks and mortar Dan as you talked about are you finding any changes in retail or space needs at the center level or any differences in the way even with retailers are kind of looking at their space needs in a specific market as stores become increasingly a method for distribution? Thats a great question Christy because it is something we discussed with a number of our retail partners now.
And its really not a function of space needs.
Its how theyre going to configure the space to make the experience pleasant for the customer.
Right now as many of you know in order to pick up goods or to experience the shop online pick up in store program you either have to go into the store specifically and then in which point theres someone to assist you to your car with whatever good it is which is not really convenient or you have to go to the back of the store where the dock is and unpleasant things like dumpster and bailers and things of that nature.
So natural physical presence of the store is in question and how they layout the store and how they make a customer pick up experience pleasant is a topic of conversation for sure.
And theres no great answer yet to how to do that although one of the things that we are seeing is for those of you who are old enough to remember the Sears catalog and JC Penny catalog and Montgomery Ward catalog et cetera where they had specific areas for catalog people to pick up goods at the store that does give you a clue as to probably were going back to the future if you will in a lot of those types of environment.
So I do think that were going to continue dialog with retailers on this.
I dont think theres an easy answer to it.
But I think there will be not necessarily square-footage reductions or expansions but there will be different space layout to try to create an environment that is exceedingly convenient for the consumer to come to the site go to the store pick up the goods get in and get out quickly with the merchandise.
And I think it will require us to make physical changes to some of our shopping centers and physical changes to the overall experience in the near future.
Thank you.
Our next question comes to you from Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Hey good morning.
Jeremy Metz with Ross.
You guys talked about a number of developments you have going on.
Can you just talk about what sort of spreads versus acquisitions you are underwriting today? Is that higher than say a year ago? And then just more broadly where institutional assets are trading on a cap rate basis today and if thats compressed further? Sure.
As we referenced a little bit in the opening commentary and certainly it hopefully shows up in our actual transaction activity the private market for quality shopping centers is extremely hot its extremely competitive.
There is a reasonable amount of product being listed but its being overwhelmed by the amount of capital thats looking at the space.
And so the acquisition environment is very competitive very challenging thats why you saw our activity for this quarter dramatically more focused on off market opportunities more opportunities where we had some sort of advantage on the deal and thats why we were pleased with the acquisitions that we created that we were able to complete this quarter.
But thats why you dont see us out actively winning a great majority of the deals that we looked at.
Wed say at this point quality power centers are clearly trading no higher than the low six cap range and seeing many many more deals not just in the beloved coastal markets but in a broader list of markets and not trading below 6% cap rate.
And so an extremely competitive environment for acquisitions.
We had sought other places to invest our capital.
In some cases it just means a timing issue where were patient and were disciplined and well wait to put that capital out where we do find opportunities.
In other cases it means that capital gets redeployed in a redevelopment activity which weve talked about quite a bit or some of the new development activity that Paul referenced to where I think consistently we are talking about getting 250 basis points or more of expected return beyond where we think those assets would trade in the private market.
Obviously there are some development risk in the projects were talking about but were more discussing projects where we already own the land is already entitled land we think youre talking about a considerable development spread there where youre only taking a fraction of the traditional development risk if we were to be going out and buying unentitled land to work that to the process where we would need an even wider spread for that sort of activity.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb with Sandler ONeill.
Good morning out there.
Just a question if you look at a number of the expanding concept like store [ph] cycle and the ballet concept and yoga et cetera.
And then you also see that expanding dental chains and things of that sort.
Are retailers more accepting of those sorts of contract co-locating it as the showing centers or are they still resistant because of legacy parking concerns or rather issues like that.
Its gotten better Alex in terms of the retailers acceptance.
I believe you mentioned a couple of different concepts.
So I would have a separate dental from fitness especially some of the smaller fitness users like life cycle.
The retailers have gotten to accept the L.A.
Fitness of the world certainly not so of the huge lifetime fitness type units.
[Indiscernible] has become very common in a lot of shopping centers well-planned and well-positioned is the key.
Thats the comment we get back a lot of the time when were asking for consent for some of the ready to wear merchants or other anchors in our centers.
So to position properly it seemed they have their own parking a terrible influence on the parking lane from the store theyre accepting.
Dental medical that a different thing youre going to have some centers where there is some small shops base or some outline space that makes sense for.
But were not excited about putting that in line with our traditional retail centers anywhere and then wed like to keep it in an off location if you will.
And again I dont think you can compare the two uses.
Yes I think the short answer Alex is yes.
People are more  the retailers are more accepting.
But particularly for the medical use were not more accepting.
And while certainly there are certain centers where that maybe appropriate in most cases weve determined that those are centers that are non-prime and those are centers that we should shell.
And so we are not actively in that market because once you go non-retail for a shopping center  and there are obviously certain services  fitness is one and theres other spaces that are difficult to lease that may be appropriate.
But once you go to the medical field and that becomes a major priority for a shopping center its going to be very difficult to maintain the retail presence in the market share gains and achieve market share gains that you like.
And we typically put those centers on the sale list and weve had success obviously selling them.
And as you can tell where our leasing numbers without doing those deals were doing just fine.
Leasing to the people that we want to lease to.
So we really havent needed to go to that level.
And I dont suspect that we will anytime soon.
And our next question comes to you from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America.
Thank you and good morning.
Good morning.
The top national retailers continue to grow its market share of the total shares Im just wondering what this means by shopping center format and particularly what that might mean for small shops in shopping centers.
Well you want to see in our case anyway Craig where the small shops are becoming less relevant.
The power center format let me start with that we dont have a lot of small shops space.
We think about it in small grocery and the local community centers.
So weve been very focused on taking it to the point youre talking about where were consolidating shops space bringing in some of the national anchors converting 3 000-foot units to one 9 000-foot unit.
So you will see a reduction in it.
I think the key in our business and certainly the way I look at it is how much office space should any center have right? And its not going to be a big component when you talk about the power center format.
So were going to focus on the national retailers.
Were going to focus on the large 10 000 and up primarily.
Certainly therell be some smaller that complement the mix.
But we will see less and less shop space.
And that is a little bit of a function of whats happening with the business.
Theres always going to be room for service and food fast food particularly some of the cell phone operators.
So you will see shop space in all sort of categories.
But in what were doing and what were focused on were not going to see a heavy concentration of how to build the shop space as we used to know it.
Next question is from Kalan Beril [ph] with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning.
Is Dollar Tree on your list of largest tenants? And Im sure you also have exposure to Family Dollar.
Could you talk about any impact you expect the merge of those two companies to have on their square-footage plans? Yes Dollar Tree is quite a large player on our portfolio.
But there is only one Family Dollar so impact in terms of the merger.
And we think its a great idea.
I think that wed like to see this growth exposure in some of our markets.
Eighty-six is the number of Dollar Trees we have today.
So again just with one Family Dollar were up to 87.
And again no impact on the merger in terms of growth And we think the merger is a positive thing.
When you have multiple retailers in the similar category with a similar pricing strategy it makes sense for them to join forces.
Weve seen it with Office Max and Office Depot.
We thought that was a good idea.
And we certainly think that this is a good idea as well.
We think that in general though one of the reasons why these events occur is because if you look at the companies individually both of them had very very high aspirational new store GLA growth strategies.
Both of which were going to be extremely difficult to achieve on an independent basis particularly as we have rising occupancy rates.
We have nothing new being built.
And finding the square footage necessary to sustain those growth aspirations was going to be very very difficult and I think near impossible.
So I think as the combined chain looks for its growth opportunities it is more likely to succeed in the guided square footage that they have planned than they would individually.
And I think that was a big part of the conversation that leads to the merger because retailers as you know have to grow internally or externally.
But internally is tough.
Internally is tough in a non-inflationary environment.
So external growth is actually critical for a successful retailer and growing market shares is absolutely critical.
And independently when very little is being built and the supply-demand dynamic is they heavily favor the landlord joining of the forces in that effort makes a lot of sense.
Next is Jonathan Pong with Robert Baird.
Hey good morning guys.
Dave S&amp;P has a positive outlook on your credit rating.
Can you share anything about how those discussions are going [indiscernible] it will be and then whats the biggest hurdle to getting that done? Yes I mean the outlook is obviously very important to where their headed that in terms of their bent to continue to have the rating more positively reflect our credit.
They do very critically their own research.
We try to be as open in front of them as possible with our disclosure that we share with everyone as well as with specific rating agency business and disclosures.
So we have no secret intel as to what their plans are but obviously I think we keep making considerable progress de-risking the company.
That includes lowering debt to EBITDA but a much broader list of de-risking activities like the Brazilian exit.
And so we think as we continue to make progress the rating agencies have recognized that we think theyll continue to recognize that maybe even more importantly I think if you look at where our bonds [indiscernible] the fixed income investment community has certainly been supported of our name that I think positions as well when we choose to return to the bond market.
Next comes through from Albert Lin with Morgan Stanley.
Hey good morning guys.
Year-to-date I think you guys are attracting around 3.2% same stores NOI growth which is slightly towards the higher end of your full year guidance 2.5% to 3.5%.
Im curious what your thoughts are for the back half of the year.
And how long do you think you can sustain this level of plus 3% NOI growth? Were please with that activity for the first half of the year.
I would call it very consistent to modestly ahead of that guidance range.
And we think it continues to be achievable for the second half of the year.
I think everything we talked about for use of the upgrade of the portfolio quality with the upgrade of the underlying tenant base was meant to create a portfolio that could deliver this.
And while there is much debate in the past as to whether our portfolio quality warranted pricing on par with the other shopping center companies I think as result show up it becomes harder and harder to justify the discounted which we trade.
When you see that the underlying cash flow does not only grow on part and better than peers but also I think represented the sort of consistency that is important to us and we think important to what stocks get attracted multiples or NAV premiums or small NAV discounts over time.
And so were pleased with the activity to date.
We think everything that we put in place with the portfolio as well as the leasing team not only the caliber of the people we have but the mandate that they very clearly have from all of us to continue to drive growth that focus on project to accelerate to find those opportunities where we can create additional rental spreads creating year [indiscernible] over and prove the quality and value of the portfolio but also absolutely push things to NOI.
Now counter intuitively it may have a slight negative impact in 2014 where were creating vacancy or at least in the first half of 2015.
But we think even with that we can maintain very attractive same store NOI growth on an absolute basis in this 2.5% to 3.5% range and I think very attractive same store NOI growth relative to the peer group.
Next question comes from Jason White with Green Street Advisors.
Hi guys.
Just a follow up on the previous discussion over [indiscernible] some of the [indiscernible] and some of those hands in your centers.
How will you be able to add the specialty grocers and with the parking they demand is it hope to find the place to fit them in your centers or is it pretty easy to restructure some of the other retailers expectation? Its actually been quite easy Jason.
I mean most of the specialty grocers [ph] weve done have been takeovers of existing space.
Like the one example I gave with a fresh market where wed be taking a Barnes location fit into the exact footprint no expansion no reduction necessary.
And Barnes and some of the other spaces we have recaptured they were very demanding in the amount of parking in front of their stores initially.
So weve got plenty of parking and then were [indiscernible] to fill those folks like the specialty grocers.
But we dont see any issue in terms of the parking demand at all.
In fact many of the centers weve built were probably over-parked and now coming in with somebody whos going to use up a little bit of that parking is a great add to the center.
Next we have Todd Thomas with Keybanc.
Hi.
Thanks good morning.
Dan in light of your comments around the retail environment you noted that youre spending a lot of time analyzing retailers promotional campaigns and inventory levels and merchandising.
And weve seen a modest uptick in bankruptcies and closures this year relative to prior years.
Your comment seems to be focused more on the importance of this back-to-school and holiday season.
I was just wondering do you feel that this season is more important than in recent years for many retailers maybe a tipping point of sorts or a situation where things shake loose a bit with regard to closure or even bankruptcies.
I was just curious if you could elaborate a bit on your comments.
Sure.
I dont think this season is any more important than any other season from that perspective.
Particularly because I think in general if you look at the bulk of our cash flow and the credit quality of our cash flow the tenants are going into this holiday season in good shape.
Balance sheets are in good shape.
I think theyve figured out obviously over the last several years regardless of the news we heard yesterday they figured out how to operate in a low GDP environment with modest wage growth and modest employment growth.
And I think theyre well prepared for the holiday season and were all prepared for back to school.
I think whats interesting though and we did a property tour up to New England the last two days.
And one of the things you are seeing is that inventory levels and promotional activity in retailers is early.
It was early for back-to-school and I suspect well see the same thing now for the holiday season.
Weve always waited sort of for after Thanksgiving and then everything moved to before Thanksgiving and I think everything is accelerating a week early or two early.
And I think thats a result of the inventory levels.
I think its a result of the cooperation between the vendor and the retailer and the fact that the consumer isnt skittish.
The consumer smart and the consumer doesnt like to pay full price and they need to be incentivized to shop and the retailers are figuring out how to do that.
So I dont really think this is any more important than any other important selling season.
But I do think that you will see some changes in inventory levels.
You will see some changes in promotional activity.
I also think that we saw some changes in merchandise mix because of the importance of branded good off price.
And thats just something to watch to see if it works quite frankly.
To see if its the right move and to see if thats what the consumer is looking for as we head into the two most important shopping seasons which obviously are back to school and holiday.
The next question is [indiscernible].
Hey good morning everyone.
I just want to go back to follow your comments about project accelerate.
I appreciate the details and some of the examples you shared.
I was just curious though if we take a step back and think about 21 recaptured boxes and the five that are being recaptured.
Of those how many are released at this point and how many have you actually taken back at this point.
Basically weve only taken back one but theyre happening  theyd staggered [indiscernible] and thats part of the beauty of this.
Part of our deals on the 26th now are controlling exactly when we will we get the space back and made the point that we want to be in a position where were signing leases with the replacement tenant prior to physically getting the space back.
There will be a few more in the third quarter several more by the end of this year.
Pretty decent wave of recaptures early in 2015.
And David mentioned obviously there will be a little bit of a hit with that.
The stuff we havent captured we have certainly concrete ideas on every one.
Deals are not done with all 26 but were recapturing for a reason.
We want that space.
And so in many cases  and if I just had to give a percentage Ill tell you 50%.
Weve got deals soon to be executed and the others are in LOI and negotiation stages but very comfortable with the space.
I think its very important to note to Pauls point though is that we will stagger the take-backs.
And in most cases we will have signed leases before we actually take back the space because our agreements with these retailers give us the optionality of when we can take it back obviously giving consideration to their peak sales times et cetera.
So we will stagger it out to minimize the downtime as much as possible or maximize the cash flow as much as possible.
But were in a good shape from a documents standpoint.
So there are optionality on these spaces is whats really creating enormous value.
So as we announce these deals and as these deals come through you will actually see deals that are signed ready to go but might not have taken back the space yet.
And we still have some time before we do that.
Next question is from Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
Along that similar lines.
I feel like [indiscernible] theres still maybe 25% of space thats not owned by you.
What are your plans on those types of spaces.
And does that make sense for you to take some of those back into the own portfolio.
The one youre looking at is typically where you have a shadow anchor whether its a Target or a Lowes or Wal-Mart.
And we have looked in certain cases where it makes sense to convert to lease.
But thats not typically the preference of those larger retailers.
Yeah.
You think about some of the costly capital standpoint as much as our positioning has dramatically improved in capital the decrease its a real struggle to say that are our cost of capital could compete with the Costco or a Wal-Mart who have consistently wanted to own a larger portion of their store base.
At least for Wal-Marts large format stores.
Next question is from Michael Mueller with JP Morgan.
Hi.
I was wondering for the Blackstone [ph] JV did you consider taking I guess a higher ownership stake initially or not really because you have access to the top 10 centers that you wanted anyway.
I think the importance for us is the risk-adjusted return.
And so to be able to get a very low-risk return on a preferred equity piece for a period of time during which well be doing the extremely detailed underwriting above and beyond what you do in an acquisition process but what you do when you truly own and manage a center to see what would make sense.
Assuming we can figure out another transaction with Blackstone to take several of those assets on a wholly owned basis.
I think it speaks to our focus on risk overall.
Our focus on portfolio quality overall where we didnt have an interest to take on 100% of these 76 assets.
But we think we have a very attractive structure here where we absolutely expect to help our good partners at Blackstone on this transaction and end up at the day with something that works extremely well for them and very well for us when we can achieve a good return and a consistent return up front.
And potentially an ownership interest of 100% of the smaller pool of highest quality prime assets.
Do we want longer term? So theres a structure thats worked well.
They are a partner that has worked extremely well and so were excited to another one with them.
And hopefully we see it progress over the next several years the way that the first one has.
Next we have Christopher Lucas with Capital One Securities.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
I just wanted to [indiscernible] on the last question which is David maybe you could give us a sense of the aspirates between [indiscernible] in that ARCP portfolio.
I think there is a relatively widespread when you simply say there are 76 assets.
When you truly look at where the value is focused I think its pretty tightly focused on high quality shopping centers in major market.
But to answer the most extreme thought of your question I think there are high quality major major market asset that recent transactional activity would tell us our five caps or some five cap sort of assets in the Los Angeles area.
And on the other end there are some smaller market single time in assets with less attractive demographics are underlying tenancy.
They would probably be in the mid-eights.
And so I think you do have a wide range of cap rates by that broadest definition of thinking about each one of the 76 assets.
But when you truly look at where the value is it is highly concentrated in the high quality major market prime large scale power centers.
Next we have Rich Moore with RBC Capital Markets.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hey Im curious now that development seems to be making its way back into the conversation not just with you guys but with others as well where you are in terms of your development platform in terms of your staff your expertise say which of course youve had before.
And Im wondering where that is today post recession from a development standpoint.
Were in good shape Rich.
And we had the redevelopment platform and we were very careful as we went in to the recession and during the recession.
We knew we needed the development folks in the department and we kept a couple of key ones and weve added since.
And we continue to look by the way.
Were always looking for quality people in that area construction and development but weve kept enough of a pool of activity if you will going with the redevelopment pipeline and the occasional development that we feel good about where we are.
We continue to look.
We certainly dont feel that were in a position where were short on quality staff for the extent of the pipeline we played out for you.
And it looks like we have some follow-up coming through from Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson.
Thanks.
Just a quick question a follow up on Richs.
What do you think  have you guys looked at your total portfolio and just maybe put some parameters around what you think the total redevelopment opportunity is maybe within the next three years or so? Yes we have.
I mean theres quite a bit thats active today.
I will tell you that well be north for bringing about $100 million plus online in 14.
And that number should be right around 150.15 million.
Thats kind of the run rate were looking at.
It could obviously bury it from year to year based upon when projects are brought into service.
So weve got several hundred million in progress right now different stages.
That just means were not just thinking about it.
Were actually doing something about it whether its entitlements or consents or working deals.
But a good run rate would be about 150 million to 200 million a year of activity and probably bringing in around 150 million a year for the next few years.
And we have no further questions in queue so Ill pass it back to DDR CEO Dan Hurwitz for any final remarks.
I just want to thank you all once again for joining us for our update on what was a busy second quarter.
And hope that you will be able to join us in Atlanta on November 4th in conjunction with Navy.
So thanks again.
Have a good day.
Wonderful.
Thank you very much for your time.
[Indiscernible] and have a great rest of the day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 DDR Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mark and Ill be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Meghan Finneran Financial Analyst.
Please proceed.
Thanks Mark.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On todays call you will hear from CEO Dan Hurwitz; Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing &amp; Development Paul Freddo; and President and CFO David Oakes.
Please be aware that certain of our statement may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and filed with the SEC on Form 8-K and Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 as amended.
In addition we will discussing non-GAAP financial measures on todays call including FFO and operating FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplements are available on our Web site at www.ddr.com.
Last we will be observing a one-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
At this time its my pleasure to introduce our CEO Dan Hurwitz.
Thank you Meghan.
Good morning and thank you all for joining us today.
Before I address the very successful quarter and the market we are seeing going forward Id like to share my thoughts with you in regard to this particular form and thank each of you for your many contributions to DDR over the years.
While this is certainly not an official goodbye I thought it appropriate and want to make sure that I have the opportunity to properly recognize this process which has been essential to our Companys evolution.
When I was named CEO I felt it was important to personally reach out to the various constituents of the public markets including investors analysts and rating agencies to begin a dialogue that focused on our management teams renewed vision for the future of the Company while simultaneously ascertaining your respected view of that vision.
My goal was to engage with the market not quite the market while listening and expecting your intellect and opinions.
But still holding firm to what history taught this management team over the years.
Most importantly as a leader of this team I believed it critical that we build a culture that emphasize delivery of what was promised and in so doing earned back the respect of those whom we disappointed in the past.
While I certainly wont go through the various successes and failures over the past several years.
I think its very important that each of you on this call understand the quintessential role that you played in our success.
Youve challenged us doubted us criticized us praised us and most importantly educated us on what it would take to bring this Company not only back from the brink but importantly enhance our reputation market perception and credibility.
Whether it was through the 100s of meetings with investors and analysts annually or through your generous commitment of time to participate in perception studies whatever success we attained it is directly attributable to our partnership with you and for that we are all extremely appreciative and well be forever grateful.
While we may not have always agreed on all matters direction or message the respect level was evident and our conversations were meaningfully constructive.
I believe DDR is an excellent example of how a transitional company and public market constituents can work together to save an institution preserve several 100 job and set a path for future stability and prosperity for all involved.
So as my time to address you in this form becomes somewhat limited I didnt want to miss the opportunity to thank you for being the professionals that you are.
Thank you for helping a first-time CEO find success under difficult circumstance and thank you for enabling me to leave this company to my successor in infinitely better shape than I found it which should be the ultimate goal of every CEO.
Most importantly thank you for your support of the entire management team at DDR who remained laser-focused on ensuring that this Companys best days are yet to come.
As we move forward with the call I ask that you respect the fact that none of us here in the room today are part of the selection process for my successor.
So please lets spend our remaining time today talking about the business and the continued excellence and consistency produced by our team.
As you saw on our earnings release last night we had another outstanding quarter.
Our portfolio continues to be in high demand from retailers resulting a consistently strong same-store NOI growth pre-recession leasing spreads and incremental gains in portfolio occupancy.
Our retail partners continue to aggressively pursue and win market share through disciplined and thoughtful new store growth coupled with complementary omni-channel investments making the power center assets class the most desired format for retail growth across the country.
The supply demand dynamic has never been more in our favor and our capital recycling program and portfolio transformation has left us with a portfolio of power centers that are in high demand from many of the best and most successful retailers.
From specialty grocers to fast fashion to beauty and cosmetics the power center format continues to evolve with the convergence of concepts and merchandise while offering retailers the greatest access to the consumer and simultaneously protecting their margins due to the advantageous cost structure of our asset class relative to other retail formats.
In an era of cost conscious and margin focused retailers power centers continue to gain in popularity with growth conscious retailers as was recently reiterated during Ulta's Investor Day just a few weeks ago.
<br>These dynamics have resulted in a dramatic increase in the credit quality of our cash flow coupled with a simplified structure and streamline business model our portfolio is positioned to withstand any economic environment and provide durability consistency of earnings and strong dividend growth for our shareholders.
Looking across the retail real-estate industry more specifically it is highly fragmented particularly in the power center space.
Our portfolio management team recently completed a study of the ownership of the entire power center universe.
There were nearly 115 000 retail properties in the domestic U.S.
totaling 9.6 billion square feet.
Looking at the power centers specifically there are approximately 7 000 power centers representing nearly 2.4 billion square feet or 25% of the entire retail real-estate universe.
That makes DDR share of the power center market only 4% by square footage.
If you would add together all the power center portfolios of the largest public shopping center REITs in our sector collectively we own only 12% of the power center universe based on square footage.
The fragmentation in the power center space creates enormous opportunity for consolidation and one should expect those potential acquisitions to be aggressively pursued by our team.
So for these reasons and many others I remain very optimistic about the future of the power center business and of course DDR in particular.
We've built an outstanding team our portfolio and balance sheet had never been stronger and our retail partners continue to win market share.
As I think about my transition I can't help but recall a quote about leadership and team building from one of the greatest business leaders of our generation Jack Welch.
Welch stated Before you're a leader success is all about growing yourself when you become a leader success is all about growing others.
With that goal in mind culturally we've worked hard to create a meritocracy populated with outstanding leaders sharp real-estate minds and an organizational structure and platform that is built for continued success and industry leadership.
That is why I can comfortably attest that DDR's best days lie ahead.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Paul to commence addressing what's really important and significant and that's the continued execution of our strategic plan that has led to another consistent and outstanding quarter.
Thank you Dan.
As reflected by our strong results momentum continued into the third quarter resulting in 342 new deals and renewals for 2.7 million square feet.
Our leased rate improved by 30 basis points sequentially to 95.6% our highest leased rate in 26 quarters or since the first quarter of 2008.
We achieved a positive pro rata new deal spread of 23.6% a positive pro rata renewal spread of 8.2% and a combined spread of 11%.
These spreads represent our highest spreads in 26 quarters.
It's worth noting that this deal volume and these spreads were achieved with a level of CapEx that compares favorably with prior quarters.
As you can see from our net effective rent disclosure the total cost of new deals as a percentage of starting base rent declined to 15.5% below our historical average cost of 20%.
We see no concerning trends in the cost of new deals or renewals and remain focused on controlling these capital expenditures.
As the demand for prime power center space continues these results demonstrate our ability to unlock organic growth opportunities while continuing to improve the merchandise mix and credit quality of cash flow even in the face of a high leased rate environment.
As such our Project Accelerate initiative continues to be a focus of our leasing team as they drive value by further improving the tenant base growth profile and credit quality of our assets through the recapturing of high demand box space and releasing those units to market share winning retailers paying today's higher market rents.
Of the previously announced 26 boxes representing 710 000 square feet which we now control I'm pleased to inform you that we've either signed or are finalizing 19 leases with another three at LOI.
The average rental spread achieved to-date are between 30% and 40% and we're achieving unlevered cash on cost returns from the low double-digits to the mid-teens.
Recently we secured control of another four locations representing 165 000 square feet.
It is important to keep in mind that for many of these deals we have an ongoing option or right-to-recapture allowing us to control the timing and providing us with tremendous flexibility and limited downtime.
While I offered a handful of examples during our second quarter call I'd like to provide a couple of additional examples to highlight the continued success we're having with this initiative.
First we recaptured 31 000 square feet at our shops at Midtown Miami a 98% leased 645 000 square foot prime power center featuring the largest concentration of value-oriented retailers in the city of Miami.
With an underperforming tenant occupying well positioned space within the center we proactively recaptured the space in advance of its natural lease expiration.
We are back filling the recaptured space with Nordstrom Rack which will significantly improve the centers overall merchandize mix credit quality and traffic.
With minimal downtime and CapEx we dramatically improved Midtown Miamis regional draw NOI growth profile and NAV by proactively indentifying an opportunity and adding a premier tenant Nordstrom Rack which will open in the spring of 2015.
Separately we negotiated a recapture of a 28 000 square foot square-foot Barnes &amp; Noble box at a 1.1 million square foot prime power center in Orlando which was acquired in 2013.
We will be backfilling the Barnes box by splitting it into two units for Forever 21s new F21 Red concept as well as a Carters and OshKosh combo store improving the merchandise mix and credit quality of the overall center in addition to significantly beating our initial underwriting for this wholly-owned asset.
This two examples are typical of the many project accelerate success stories that have enabled us to generate the double-digit returns previously mentioned.
We recognize the unique current supply and demand environment and believe that it will not last forever and we remain focused on aggressively capitalizing on the opportunity at hand.
During our last call I mentioned that we are proceeding with select ground up development projects and continued to add fully stabilized prime power centers to our portfolio through this initiative.
I would like to take a few moments to provide an update on development activity for the third quarter.
For those following DDR on Twitter you may have noticed the grand opening of the Maxwell on October 6th.
A 240 000 square foot urban multi-storey prime power center located in Chicago South Loop the Maxwell is anchored by Nordstrom Rack T.J.
Maxx Dicks Sporting Goods Pier 1 and Burlington Coat Factory.
The Maxwell boasts a trade area population of 744 000 people with average household incomes of $91 000 all tenants opened on-time and on-budget traffic and sales are strong and we are excited about the future growth prospects of this asset.
Additionally we officially broke ground on Guilford Commons in August which will open in the back half of 2015.
Located just east of New Haven Connecticut Guilford Commons will stand 130 000 square feet and consists of three junior anchors including a specialty grocer and 40 000 square feet of shop and specialty space.
Lastly we are on-track to break ground in December on Lee Vista Promenade which is a 450 000 square feet multi-phased development project in Orlando that will be anchored by a theater and offer a best-in-class line up of junior anchor tenants and restaurant operators.
The first phase of this project will open in the fall of 2015.
We are excited about our ability to successfully capitalize on current organic growth opportunities as demonstrated by our leasing results despite a high leased rate of 95.6%.
Initiatives such as Project Accelerate the strategic monetization of our land bank and the ongoing redevelopment program remain key contributors to this success and will continue to be drivers of growth well into the future.
And I will now turn the call over to David.
Thanks Paul.
Operating FFO was $106.2 million or $0.29 per share for the third quarter including non-operating items FFO for the quarter was $110.8 million or $0.31 per share.
Non-operating items primarily consisted of non-cash gains on sales.
The third quarter marked another period of robust transactional activity on both the acquisition and disposition front.
As this management team has articulated and executed on for the past five years upgrading the quality of DDR portfolio through active portfolio management as a top priority and was again on display.
We closed on the acquisition of seven power centers from existing joint-venture with Blackstone for $377 million.
The portfolio consists primarily of power centers with a grocery component located in Los Angeles San Diego Portland Washing D.C.
Cincinnati and Harrisburg and is representative of our continued ability the source high quality assets off-market that meets our investment criteria in terms of the NOI growth profile.
Significant opportunity within the seven asset portfolio remains as the currently lease rate is 100 basis points below our company average for the majority the vacancy contains three junior anchor boxes in prime assets that we are in advance discussions to fill.
Our relationship with our partners Blackstone remains very strong and the seamless execution and favorable outcome for both parties is evident in the execution of the buyout of our second joint-venture including the redemption of our $30 million of preferred equity.
The transaction represents the culmination of BRE DDR Retail Holdings two joint venture and we are pleased with the progress thus far on the sale progress of 22 other properties that represent the entirety of two lower quality joint-ventures that we expect to close on by year-end.
As weve mentioned at length we remained focused on reducing the number of joint-inventers in an effort to simplify our structure and continue to upgrade the quality of our portfolio.
The acquisition activity this quarter was primarily financed through asset sale proceeds most notably from the disposition of a three asset portfolio in Salt Lake City for $223 million.
Our decision at Salt Lake City with the result of our determination that the pricing environment yielded an attractive opportunity to exit a market deemed non-core by DDR.
Also in the third quarter we closed on the sale of our final land parcel in Russia for $90 million further simplifying DDR story by completing the exit of all markets outside of North America.
Year-to-date and inclusive of the recently announced closing of the 71 assets with Blackstone from ARCP DDR has sold or is under contract to sell approximately $1.3 billion of assets while reinvesting in approximately $1.1 billion of acquisitions in preferred equity.
The 2014 activity thus far positions us in line with our most recent transactional guidance the forecasted DDR as a net seller of assets for the year although with much higher volume of activity than originally forecasted.
I'd also like to address this quarter's debt-to-EBITDA calculation as well as our broader view on risk management.
Third quarter debt-to-EBITDA was 7.3 times on a consolidated basis of 7.7 times on a pro rata basis up from last year and our first increase in many years.
While that statement alone is inconsistent with our message of leverage and risk reduction it is important to note that $377 million acquisition from Blackstone closed on September 30th adding the full debt load to our calculation but with no EBITDA contribution for the quarter.
This is simply a timing issue that will be remedied in the fourth quarter calculation when the EBITDA shows up.
More broadly we continue to expect to reduce debt-to-EBITDA but our primary focus is on the Company's overall risk profile and so transactions such as this quarter's attractively priced acquisition of prime centers or last quarter's sale of Sonae Sierra Brazil can continue to be pursued for their contribution to risk reduction rather than the slight setback to a continued debt-to-EBITDA reduction.
As we head in the fourth quarter we would like to take this time to update 2014 guidance by tightening the operating FFO range from a $1.14 to a $1.18 per share to $1.15 to $1.17 per share consistent with our normal practice we'll provide 2015 guidance at the beginning of January.
Finally we'd like to remind everyone of our property tour and dinner in Atlanta on Tuesday November 4th the day prior to NAREIT.
Thank you to everyone who has RSVP'd thus far.
At this point I'll stop and turn the call back to Dan for closing remarks.
Thanks David and before turning the call over to the operator I'd like to briefly reiterate the strength and consistency of our operating results for the third quarter.
For the 22nd consecutive quarter we leased over 2 million square feet resulting in a steady increase in our portfolio leased rate for each of those 22 quarters.
And for the 10th consecutive quarter we generated same-store NOI growth of greater than 3%.
Our leasing spreads this quarter were the highest we've seen since pre-recession and the current supply demand dynamic indicates a continued favorable operating environment for retail landlords with high quality power centers and a platform that is equipped to take advantage of the opportunities present in today's market.
Our Project Accelerate initiative is generating exciting results and we're optimistic about the prospects for continued growth and success of that program.
At this point Mark we'll begin to take -- we'll take questions from our callers thank you.
Thank you I just wanted to get possibly an update on The Pike and Paseo Colorado and possibly may be some understanding -- are there special people to lease what is a little bit different audience at those projects versus your power center lineups?  Yes Craig this is Paul.
Let me answer the latter part first.
We have our leasing team a couple of people devoted to these two projects entirely obviously they're massive projects unique in our portfolio as well as consultants who are best-in-class and well-known in the business in the type of retailers we'll be looking to attract.
As we've announced in The Pike we're going to formally rename it the Outlets at The Pike and it will be an outlet center so we're dealing with an outlet consultant which is very typical of the outlet business.
We're making great progress in both projects in The Pike we've recently signed a Nike outlet and H&amp;M and we've got some other big signings in the near future that we'll be announcing.
We opened a restoration outlet restoration hardware outlet last fall and have just signed an expansion of that unit business is through the roof for those guys so making great progress and we'll be keeping up everybody up-to-date with press releases and other disclosures on that one.
Paseo same story we are making great progress we acquired the Macy department store building a couple of years ago which was a big first step they were underperforming holding back the project a great location great asset in Downtown Pasadena and we're proceeding with a hotel deal and some other deals again can't announce all of them because we haven't signed tenants but the progress is significant and again we've got people focused on those two projects exclusively.
Just a question on fast fashion obviously a hot topic if you will -- no pun intended obviously but a hot topic with the Primark/Sears deal.
Do you think that we should -- the malls have certainly gotten a lot of attention out of this especially because Sears seems to be getting the headlines but should we expect more fast fashion Primark's and those folks to show up at the power centers? It would seem if some of these retailers want large GLA footprints that the malls is a little tough in the sense that you need a productive mall but with a sort of underperforming anchor versus the power centers the drive huge amount of sales and would seem to have the optionality and the square footage that some of these guys want.
So if you could just tell us what you guys are seeing? Well I think it's pretty clear that the interest in power centers from fast fashion is there.
One of the problems we have obviously is we've a very high occupancy rate just like the A-mall business has a very high occupancy rate so the opportunities for fast fashion to penetrate either one of those has to be extraordinarily creative which is whether it be through Primark-Sears or whether it be through our Project Accelerate and things of that nature.
I think overall you're going to see the growth of retail is going to go where there is opportunity and where there is availability as we focus on the future of some of the boxes not just in our centers but in the mall business as well I think the fast fashion retailers are going to have to be very nimble and they're going to have to adapt to whatever opportunities available to them if they're going to grow market share particularly since new product is not being built.
So as a practical matter we have conversations with these folks on a regular basis we've done deals Paul just mentioned we just did the Forever 21 Red deal at The Pike and we will continue to pursue fast fashion retailers where opportunities present but they're having to be much more nimble and much more agile than simply resting on the laurels of a prototype that they think is easily deliverable across the country because nothing is easily deliverable today.
Dan thanks for your opening comments.
We wish you well on your next step.
And while we recognize that you're not running the process what are you doing as the CEO to keep the organization and your people laser focused during this period of uncertainty.
And what are your expectations for timing of a replacement announcement?  Thank you for your comments Christy I can assure you that what I'm doing and what we're all doing is the same thing we've done for the last 15 years I've been here which is we come to work every day and we work hard and we run the company the way we think we ought to run it in order to meet the -- fulfill the obligations and the expectations of our investors and our employees.
While there is uncertainty for sure in the market and there is a lot more chatter about it in the market than even there is here at corporate.
People are coming to work they're working hard as you can see by the results in the quarter and the momentum the company has no one's taking time off and no one's certainly feeling sorry for themselves one way or the other everyone's coming to work and working very hard.
As CEO it's my job to make sure that everyone does that for as long as I'm here.
In regard to the timing expectations that's very much up in the air I'm very committed to making sure we've a smooth transition with the next leader of this company and that's something that's extraordinarily important I think and an obligation I had not just to our shareholders but to the employees of this company and I fulfilled that so the timing of the search is unknown to me but I'm committed to running the company for as long as I'm in the seat and I'm also committed to helping with a smooth transition at the appropriate time.
Hi thanks good morning.
Question in terms of acquisitions Dan it sounds like there are a lot of consolidation opportunities out there and you said that they should be pursued aggressively what's DDR's appetite today based on what you're seeing out in the market and with where pricing is and sort of the level of competition for higher quality product and then as we think about DDR's investments going forward should we expect to see more joint venture partnerships like the ARCP portfolio deal or more one-offs what's the preference?  Well as a practical matter you should assume that we'll be aggressive in pursuing a number of the opportunities that we've identified but a number of those aren't for sale people aren't selling the assets it's incredibly fragmented there is a lot of private owners these are not in the hands of institutions or even other public companies for that matter.
And the competition can be stiff when there is a bid or an auction and very often particularly when we bid up against non-traded REITs we'll lose for obvious reasons but we're able to strength relationships with owners of assets that we have interest in we're able to provide tax efficient transactions which some other folks cannot do obviously which the REIT structure enables us to do we are a very viable and I think attractive buyer for those that are interested in selling.
So our folks are very focused on it.
Our acquisition team knows exactly which assets we're interested in and the markets that we want to do business in and we are reaching out to those for the owners of those assets on a regular basis.
Pricing is tough and one of the reasons why we're going direct to these folks is because we're trying not to be in an auction process.
An auction process does not serve this company well and I think our success and our hit rate will be very low if we get into an auction process given our cost of capital and our discipline compared to the cost of capital and others and their discipline.
In regard to Final point about that is the ARCP transaction.
I think that was the unique one both in its size and the way it came about and so I think was one that we made sense to do in joint venture because of the nature of the portfolio the size of the portfolio in the way that the deal came together.
But I think in general for what Dan is talking about in terms of the detailed work were doing to figure out what we would want to target over the next many years.
I think our general focus would be owning the majority of those on balance sheet in a fully owned fashion.
In certain circumstances where we can get that level of involvement -- initially I think youve seen us work very well with Blackstone to step into 100% ownership of the highly attractive centers even if it takes a multiyear process in some circumstances and so I think the ultimate goal is wholly owned but selectively you will see use very carefully certain high quality joint venture partners.
Hi good morning.
Youve talked in the past about how when people ask about the cap rate spread between your acquisitions and your dispositions that it might be narrower than because of land sales and on the acquisition side may be a preferred equity deals at higher yields.
All of that's kind a happen in the past quarter.
So maybe just have an update on if you look back on the year to date how do we think about the spread between the investment yield and the disposition cap rate and whether -- how we think about that going forward? Sure I mean and it has been a significant change over the past few years from that extreme time during the downturn of selling pen cap assets and repaying the line of credit 1% or 2% percent in a massive spread there.
Today we're at a very very different point where we can execute on a continued portfolio improvement and a continued portfolio and capital recycling plan without about near term dilution.
So we think its certainly the right long term decision but the drawback at times -- the near term dilution associated with that today with the quality of the assets we're selling where it's no longer primarily non-prime asset its prime assets that we either think have greater risk in some circumstances or lower growth in other circumstances.
But were selling to a much more institutional crowd of buyers at a much more institutional sort of pricing.
And so where the most significant change has happened is on the cap rates on our sales that have gotten significantly lower over the past few years and today we're consistently executing in the 7% or low 7% cap rate range for sales.
And while the option market for acquisitions is not affording deals any more close to that pricing and I think our careful focus on off market acquisitions has gotten us to a point where weve been able to execute on very -- on the acquisition of very high quality centers anywhere from the low sixes to the mid to high sevens in some cases with a blended average probably in the mid-sixes maybe 6.5% to 6.75%.
And so I think with that you look at an extremely small spread between disposition cap rates of assets that we dont want to own and acquisition cap rates that represent exactly where we want to put capital.
You layer in a couple of land sales.
We mentioned $9 million out of Russia couple of other middle land sales and all of sudden you're at a point where you're fully funding your acquisition activity in a fashion that is completely neutral to near term earnings and we think very helpful to the long term growth rate of NOI for this portfolio.
First of all Dan were certainly going to miss you and good luck in your next phase whenever that actually starts.
You guys are picking up a lot of developments a lot of acquisitions.
At least you had mentioned on the last call dispositions would probably wind down by the end of next year and Im curious are you going to stall out here on the progress on the balance sheet as you have more investment opportunities and maybe fewer ways to fund those.
Absolutely not.
There is a continued extreme focus on overall risk reduction at the company and that certainly includes further deleveraging.
I think as noted in the comments that I made earlier regarding that specific that debt to EBITDA calculation I think we certainly saw numbers that could indicate a stall out on that process for this quarter.
But we need to think closing the nearly $400 million transaction at the very end of the quarter when its funded with dispositions earlier in the quarter and you put yourself in a position where at least a quarter point of debt-to-EBITA was shown higher than what's a normal run rate pro forma for a full quarter of that activity would have shown.
And so I think were cognizant of the fact that the EBITA result for the quarter showed a stall out but I think that absolutely will be improved.
In the fourth quarter and beyond we continue to be a net seller of assets which provides additional capital even with development and redevelopment pipeline that continues to find several attractive projects a year and would not say that we're done with the disposition process.
I think we are done with the disposition process for non-prime asset but at this point either reset the bar or you just think about it more from a portfolio management standpoint of there's always going to be a bottom 5% to 10% in the portfolio and so I think there continues to be a new and an in fact higher quality pool of disposition candidates to fund all of our acquisition activity and other investment activity.
And so I think we've positioned ourselves we're very comfortable with funding our investment activity over the next couple of years and in addition to that we continue to have one of the absolute lowest payout ratios in the sector and so the amount of free cash flow that we have access to on an annual basis is much more significant than peers to fund an additional portion of that activity or an additional amount of deleveraging on an annual basis.
So we saw an article a few weeks back noting how Wal-Mart is shifting its incremental development spend new stores away from big stores and will invest more in e-commerce as fewer shoppers head to their physical stores.
A strategic shift not too different than what Target I believe is doing.
I'd love to hear thoughts about the future space demand implications for power center landlords like yourself.
And do you think Wal-Mart and Target are early adopters of the format that other large box operators will eventually adopt as well?  Well I wouldn't start by saying that Wal-Mart and Target are stopping with any kind of growth plans in the bigger space.
A couple of different stories there.
One Target has some things to figure out right whether it's Canada and then their overall business and they are a creature of power centers shopping centers and there haven't been a lot built as we've talked about for the past six years and they were driving that growth and hence they're not a part of what's being built today.
Wal-Mart is still aggressively going after physical space in terms of the neighborhood markets which they've upped the count and every time they talk about it they increase demand of neighborhood markets they're looking to deliver as well as some of their convenience stores and more urban environment stores which obviously you need to build smaller to get some of the urban markets.
You also have to remember that both of these have large store counts in the super centers or the super Targets already.
So where they're going to go with that new program is difficult and hence the move to a smaller format.
The good news as we talk about everybody moving to more of an omni-channel approach is these guys have a lot of capital.
Target is a great example of a company that's got a tremendous amount of capital to spend on that approach since they're not building the 100 120 new stores they were five or six years ago.
All good for their business and all good for our shopping centers.
I think the other thing to add here and it's important to keep in mind is that as landlords we benefit greatly by tenants taking less square footage.
We talked about it many times on this call and we've encouraged many of our tenants to take less square footage because sales per square foot inventory turn and profit per square foot all go up when you have less square footage and from a practical standpoint when we're dealing with tenants on new concepts whether it be Kohl's with their 35 000 square foot concept or whether it'd be Wal-Mart with neighborhood market or the CityTarget concepts it's all good news for bricks and mortar retail because retailers are being smarter I think about how they use their square footage what their production should be on a per square foot basis and that will lead to a healthier company altogether.
There is nothing really worse than dead space in the store and we can through stores today and I'm sure we've all done that where we see a lack of inventory but we see inventory spread out in a way that's really unattractive to the consumer because it's just simply too much square footage.
So we're encouraging our folks to take less square footage primarily because we have lots of users for that square footage.
So I don't think our shopping centers will get smaller even if our anchor tenants take less square footage because we have more concepts coming into the power center universe than we would like to accommodate which will lead to a much more diverse merchandise mix which will help grow market share.
So we're encouraged by the dialog about space.
It's an important dialogue that should be had.
E-commerce or not it's an important dialogue that retailers need to have on a regular basis and we think it's very positive that that dialogue is occurring.
So just a quick question on leasing.
If I look at your end of 2013 supplemental heading into 2014 it seems like the small shop rent per square foot was close -- expiring small shop rents per square foot was close to $28.
And now if I look at your supp looking -- heading into 2015 your expiring rents are around $21.80 or so.
And I know you just can't draw that line from point A to point B but I was just wondering if you could provide some more color on how much -- what we can expect from lease spreads going into 2015 and is this delta -- how much of it is a mix issue versus a favorable vintage issue? The biggest issue in the difference between '13 and todays disclosure is simply the exclusion of Brazil in todays numbers.
I dont know the exact impact but its significant and we certainly have not gone backwards on the base -- average base rents in any size.
Our smallest size of less than 5000 is really average over $30 of foot and if you look at under 10 000 every category is growing when we continue to see it.
Additionally you have to look at a change in the asset but there're always going be sales and dispositions and acquisitions.
So that going change it slight.
But again I think the biggest thing to look at was Brazil came out.
That drove that number down.
But you will see that grow consistently on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
Just wanted to go back to the sort of the investment environment to your comments about the strong demand from new concepts and some of the fast fashion.
You've got a couple of new developments the pipeline here that I know you had talked about for a little while.
Just curious what we should expect in '15.
Can we see some additional starts coming on? It looks like Chicago you've got a fair amount of space.
I know you've got the project there already but it looks like that's close to being completed here.
Yes we thats quite a bit on our plate.
Vince as you know other than projects we just announced as completing or bringing to a close Seabrook; Marion Kansas; The Maxwell and we're going commence a second phase of Bill Gate either next year or early '16 with month.
We've got the ones we're kicking off in Connecticut and Florida Guilford and Lee Vista.
So that's quite a bit on our plate.
All good news.
Most of those -- other than Bill Gate and the Maxwell these were on the site plan that weve been holding.
For some time market conditions are right tenant demand is right.
So were proceeding with them.
There's been a great level of activity as I see it over the past two years and over the next year and a half two years.
Weve been very consistent and disciplined with our approach on the new ground up development as Dan has stated many times.
Were not going to go out and control site by site that need to be entitled.
They're going take several years to accomplish that process accomplish the -- ascertaining the level of retailer interest.
We get a lot of opportunities thrown at us every day and we look at them carefully but again very selective.
So I think you can feel good about what we have in our immediate pipeline and that we will continue to serve other opportunities but its going to be the right ones and its going be where we can step in use our leasing and development expertise and execute quickly.
I guess I wanted to follow up on the question about just kind of releasing spreads.
And Paul as you sort of look at into next year I dont know what percentage of your 2015 leasing would have been put to bed today but just how do you feel about kind of where are market rents are versus the expiring rents and do you think that that number is similar or perhaps even higher in '15 versus '14? Two different categories Steve right.
On the renewals listen I'm with [indiscernible] 8.2% pro rata spread for this quarter.
That's again the largest in 26 quarters.
That wont move a lot.
If we keep that north of eight get it approaching -- 10 has been the goal.
Thats a great accomplishment.
On a new deal spread I feel great.
23% in the quarter is a big number and there is no automatic that it just continue to grow from there but if we can achieve somewhere in that mid-teens to mid-twenties obviously there's going to be out lies in terms of quarter by quarter performance but I see no reason why we shouldnt continue to see these outsized new deal spreads and renewal spreads in the high single digits.
I know we pound this one every time weve talk but that supply and demand dynamic is working well for us we continue through initiatives like the Project Accelerate to encourage and motivate our team to create vacancy because thats what were seeing.
A lot of those deals in this quarter by the way that drove that 23% new deal spread were within the Project Accelerate initiatives.
Dan I just wanted to add my own comments about how you will be missed.
And I guess just going back to the whole change in management the press release did come out some of us have had the opportunity to have private conversations.
But I guess for those investors that have not really had a chance yet to fully understand this or are struggling with it Dan could you just kind of let us know once and for all exactly why this was the right time for this decision to be made in regards to a management transition at DDR and what that process involved to come up with a mutual decision?   Well I think as every big company weve been talking at DDR about succession planning for quite some time.
Thats been no secret.
It fits in the market and the board has done an excellent job in making sure that management is very focused on it and thats why we built the team that we built.
The conversations between the management team in general and the board have been consistent.
We feel that Company is in terrific shape.
I dont think there is a time that in the past five years I feel better about this Company than I do right now.
I feel better about our asset class.
I feel better about our management team better about our balance sheet.
This is a time where this Company is not only built for the current environment but I think it is also built to take a punch if the market turns a little bit.
So we just felt that this was a stable company that is an industry leader in a lot of areas and the time was right for us to move on to other opportunities.
And the five year plan that we put together has been pretty well accomplished.
If you really look at -- those of you who were at our 2009 Investor Day and you heard about what we talked about doing and if you look at what weve accomplished weve pretty well done that.
So -- we havent been successful with everything dont get me wrong but we've accomplished a lot and I think its time for new leadership and both the Board and I agree that its time for new leadership to take this Company through the next five year strategic plan.
So that was the conversation.
It was a good conversation.
I think the process is a professional one and I will be very supportive throughout.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeremy Metz from UBS Securities.
Please proceed sir.
Can you just talk a little bit more about how the process works with the deals you just bought from Blackstone this quarter? Did you go to them or they come to you and just what the spread was between the yield you guys bought in and where you think the market for those assets is today?  Sure.
This was originally a portfolio that actually Blackstone had tied up a year and half ago or so.
It was in a not ideally structured joint venture and Blackstone was able to tie up the portfolio in a very attractive price.
It would have something that at time we would have been happy to buy the entirety of but to their great credit and deal sourcing ability Blackstone was the one that brought us this transaction and so we entered into it; initially in joint venture with them both ran it and underwrote it during that first year of ownership made good progress on leasing but only a year later I think Blackstone was very pleased what theyve achieved returns that they were interested in recognizing.
We were in a position where because of the lumpy nature of the Brazil sale the lumpy nature of the Salt Lake City sale as well as a heck of a lot of other dispositions on top of that that we had lined up that we did have both the capital and the interest in acquiring high quality assets.
These are generally sort of assets especially the majority of the portfolio would represent coastal assets Portland San Diego LA Washington DC.
We bid on this stuff all the time and dont even make it to the second around.
And so we were pleased for a portfolio that we knew well and we were certainly paying a premium relative to what the joint venture had purchased that a year prior by about 75 basis points going from about seven in a quarter to 6.5.
So certainly acknowledging -- were well aware that were paying a premium to what the venture could paid only a year and change prior but also thought that sort of mid six pricing on a NOI that we knew very well is quite attractive for a portfolio of asset where I think the great coastal stuff would price comfortably inside of that and even the Cincinnati and Harrisburg assets are very attractive.
So I think Blackstone did incredibly well during their year of ownership a year in change of ownership but I think the pricing in which were getting these assets positions us very strongly to get a good initial yield to redeploy capital from non-prime asset sales and to position ourselves in a very low risk way to generate strong NOI growth from these assets over the next many years.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason White from Green Street Advisors.
Please proceed.
I was just wondering on your call last quarter you talked about the yields for your two new developments in Orlando and New Haven.
I want to say between 8% and 8.5% was the range.
Can you give us an idea of what those yields would be if you include the land costs and potentially if there were impairments taken perhaps on the original land cost?  Let me start with -- theyre both north of 8% on an incremental cost Jason and they'd be close to 6% on an all-in.
I'll turn to David.
Yes you got around 20 million for development in original land cost.
Thats what gets left out of that incremental investment side of it.
They were not impairments taken on these projects just the typical quarterly process we go through to think about impairment analysis and for wholly owned developments the hurdle of the undiscounted future cash flows for a project that we expect to own for a very long period of time did not either force or allow us to take impairments on that land.
And so youve -- in our total base of what will online late next year you do have that land cost but for purposes of us thinking about returns the numbers that weve offered are on a incremental basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller from JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi.
On the operating side wondering what do you see as ceiling at this point for the leased and the occupied rates for the portfolio.
At some point Michael they should both get to -- it's a similar number but I would tell you that we talk internally about 96.5% but I would never put the ceiling down.
As we continue to improve the quality of the assets themselves we could move that North of that.
So again we talk internally near term goal if you will of 96.5% which puts us at historical heights for full occupancy but I honestly believe we think get north of that just based on the transformation of the quality as we disposed off some of the non-prime and buy some prime and prime clubbed assets.
One of the other things you have watch as we talk about a strong volume of deals a lot of that's not going to even move the needle because we're talking about space that is currently leased and we may be signing a lease with a new replacement tenant to accelerate being a great example of that scenario.
So we can continue to improve the quality of the tenant mix and the credit quality of the tenants as well not even moving the needle on the occupancy rate.
Just a follow up kind a question on comments made earlier related to encouraging tenants to take less space.
I guess Im wondering about specifically in either Kmart Sears or in Office Depot whether you are seeing variability to sort of execute on a rational real estate program? Are you seeing that happening now? Has there been any change over the last six months or so and their ability to sort of move forward with that plan? Not so much in a downsizing.
Sears in a mall story is a little bit different than us.
I guess we talked about Primark example earlier but weve seen some closings of Kmart or [indiscernible] accelerate where it makes sense for those guys to leave the market or reduce their store base at any multi store market.
Depot was obviously a big part of Project Accelerate to date and we think they will continue to be in that rationalization is going to happen in terms of store count not necessarily in downsizing.
We would encourage downsizings with all of the Office Supply Depot and Staples.
And there's other examples used over several quarters worth of calls where we talked about Best Buy and others that we were very anxious to get space back worked closely with them.
That never really happened.
We had a couple of small examples but on a large scale we havent been able to get these guys to downsize.
Thats going to change though.
Overtime now we have the merger complete between Depot and Max they are clearly in the midst of figuring out exactly where they need to be how big they need to.
So there will be continued opportunity.
I would tell you that in that category I would expect that would get more back in their entirely again all good news for us rather than downsizing in place.
The other thing to keep in mind in regard to downsizings is it's really not a real estate decision.
Even though we sit and assume and all we talk about is real estate but its a merchandizing decision and what happens is as people like Depot and others try to figure what it is they are going to be going forward how they're going to merchandize their store what product are they going to carry how are they going to present it et cetera that all has to be done first.
And once that's done you can then back into a size that makes sense.
But the big mistake retailers would be making and a lot have made over the past and people more sensitive to it now is sizing there store and then filling it.
You dont want to size a store and then fill it.
You want to figure out what you want to fill it with first and then back in to the size.
So as you see lot of this retailers who are struggling and working hard to figure out what their merchandize mix is going to be going forward that will ultimately dictate the size of the store and obviously we will be here ready willing and able to work with those retailers once theyve decided who they're going to be how are they going be relevant and how they're going merchandize there stores.
This is Caitlin Burrows.
I just have one quick question on the redevelopment at San Juan Plaza del Sol.
It looks like the spend was significantly reduced between the second quarter and third quarter.
So I was just wondering what was the reason for this? Is there any sign of retailer reticence to go to the Island or is it just some has been completed so there's less to go still? Its a pretty simple answer.
We have decided to break those down to two distinct phases and phase 1 which we are completing right now is the number you see in the supplement.
When we commence with phase II which still is our plan well just show that as an additional redevelopment.
In terms of interest even with a softness and sales on the Island what were seeing in least rate was flat for the quarter.
Base rent was up for the quarter and the list were seeing of U.S based national retailers who are interested in the Island Dan mentioned also in the script on their Investor Day they announced that they are aggressively looking at the Island for a major portfolio of stores which fits well into our transformation down there and redevelopments down there.
But the simple answer again for the lower number is that we split into a distinct phase I and phase II redevelopment.
And as weve talked about before the trouble the significant challenge to create new supply on the Island is something that did cause us to think about the two pieces of the projects separately; the first one being internal redevelopment that we had control of the second one being the true expansion where we are more dependent on an entitlement process.
That I think is one that advancing well but its one of the themes we consistently talk to you about about why retail continues to be so good on the Island.
They may get really hard to build new projects and so for us we separated the two phases of this; one that was underway and completely under our control and one that represents the expansion.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim form SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please proceed.
Just a quick one.
And I just got this question a few times over the past month.
So I just want to relay that to you and sorry to put you on the spot Paul Freddo.
But I think people have a lot of questions regarding what maybe your personal plans are following Dan's departure.
Does that have any incremental impact on your thinking about DDR or what you want to do just going forward?  No the Dans departure has no bearing on that whatsoever right now.
I'm under contract till 15 and these are discussions well have.
I would now like to turn the call over to CEO Dan Hurwitz for final remarks.
Please proceed.
Once again I just want to thank each of you for joining us this morning and we look forward to seeing you at NAREIT.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much.
This concludes todays conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 DDR Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ketene and I'll be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for todays call Ms.
Meghan Finneran Financial Analyst.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from President and CEO David Oakes and Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and the documents that we file with the SEC including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 as amended.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO and operating FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
Lastly we will be observing a one question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
At this time it is my pleasure to introduce our President and CEO David Oakes.
Thank you Meghan.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'd like to start off by addressing the announcement released yesterday morning indicating that I will become the next Chief Executive Officer of this firm.
There are few constituents that I would like to address prior to discussing the fourth quarter results.
First and I am pleased that the Boards decision and appreciate their confidence in me and this management team and the shareholder value that we can create.
I would also like to thank the investors and analysts on this call who have chosen the team and extraordinary amount of support in the past few months.
Next I would also like to thank our outgoing CEO Dan Hurwitz for his significant contributions in positioning this company where it is today.
Finally I would like to thank the employees of DDR.
While the past months of uncertainty had not always been easy the people in this organization remain loyal and have continued to perform like the top-notch professionals that they are.
I look forward to working with them and taking this company to next level in the coming years.
I would now like to address the quarterly and annual results.
For the fourth quarter operating FFO was $112.2 million or $0.31 per share including non-operating items FFO for the quarter was $80.9 million or $0.22 per share.
Non-operating items primarily consisted of non-cash impairment charges on non-operating assets.
For the full year operating FFO was $420.4 million or $1.16 per share representing a 5% increase over the prior year.
And in the past four years we have grown FFO per share to compound annual rate of over 6% despite selling over $2 billion of low-quality assets and significantly lowering leverage.
In January we released information on a number of announcements that I would like to briefly mention.
First we closed on the sale of 41 shopping centers and seven land parcels in the fourth quarter for $258 million of DDR share bringing the full year total to 82 operating asset sale and 16 land parcels for over $1.2 billion of disposition at our share.
During 2014 we also closed on the acquisition of 83 shopping centers from $1.1 billion of DDR share.
As we previously outlined we felt that the frothy transactional market signaled that we should accelerate the disposition of non-prime and the low-prime assets that attracted pricing which led us to be a net seller for the first time in four years.
Our funds management platform also made significant progress in the fourth quarter.
Consistent with our plan to wind down smaller lower asset quality joint ventures and expand relationships with fewer partners on higher quality assets we wound down two joint ventures totaling 23 properties during the quarter while closing the 70 property $1.9 billion acquisition of the ARCP portfolio with Blackstone.
While we have formed three joint ventures over the past four years of Blackstone we have concurrently wound down 12 joint ventures.
As outlined in our investor presentation our portfolio transformation has been the most dramatic in the sector over the past five years and we are nearing the end of the low-quality asset bucket.
As we closed the books on 2014 we now have only 32 fully-owned non-prime assets most of which we are the marketing for sale or that we intend to sell over the next two years.
The portfolio is in its best shape in its history.
Although that certainly does not mean that the improvement is done our top 112 wholly-owned assets as defined by future growth profile locations sales and credit comprise approximately 75% of our gross asset value and based on the recent transactional comps for similar assets generally in the 5% and 6.5% cap rate range our portfolio quality and company net asset value becomes much clear.
Additionally we continue to maintain proprietary pipeline of nearly $1 billion of potential acquisitions in our latest Blackstone joint venture which bodes some of the top coastal power centers in the country.
On the capital markets side we issued $500 million of 10 year unsecured notes in January at a 3.625% coupon.
The proceeds will be used to pay down our $300 million and $50 million unsecured term loans currently at a floating rate in the low 3% range while the remainder will be used in May to retire the $153 million of 5.5% unsecured notes coming due.
With over $425 million of mortgage debt and $350 million of convertible debentures mature during the second half of 2015 we intend to opportunistically access the unsecured bond market again this year and well also consider restructuring our unsecured term loans at a rate more attractive than those currently outstanding and with a longer duration.
I would also like to spend a brief moment discussing our 1.75% convertible notes maturing in November of this year.
Our current 2015 guidance range includes the impact of approximately 6 million common unrestricted shares to be issued on November 20.
It is our current intention to settle the principal of the notes in cash and any premium attributed to the conversion in shares by giving notice to the bond holders on October 6.
For modeling purposes the GAAP interest expense on the notes is 5.25% which would also be eliminated on November 20.
However prior to November 2015 of our stock price closed at a value greater than the 125% of the conversion price for 20 less 30 trading days in a quarter holders of these notes may exercise their conversion rates in the subsequent quarter.
The current price trigger to holders rights is $18.56 per share and adjust downwards as we pay our common dividend.
Therefore we are now assuming the full diluted impact of the shares for the last three quarters of this year.
And the final modeling item I would like to address is on snowfall expenses in the fourth quarter and our expectations for the first quarter of 2015.
The November snow storm in Western New York caused a number of properties to incur abnormally large expenses relating to removing snow from the roofs of shopping centers as roof top snow removal is not considered common area by anchor tenants we assume the recovery percentage of approximately 25% or roughly $1 million of snow removal expenses related to that storm all of which was incurred in the fourth quarter.
We believe that in January that impact at the New England region will also impact the recoveries in the first quarter.
However we estimate the total expense to be approximately $500 000 with a similar recovery percentage.
With that I will turn it over to Paul for his remarks on operations in the retail environment.
Thank you David.
Before I begin I would like to take a moment to congratulate David and to mention the enthusiasm with which this announcement has been made here at DDR.
As most of you know I was personally very supportive of David throughout this process and I know I speak for my team as well as the entire organization saying that we are thrilled with the Boards decision and anxious to support David as he leads DDR in this next phase.
The momentum we experienced during the first three quarters of 2014 continued throughout the fourth quarter and we are extremely proud of our team for the strong results delivered in the quarter and for the full year.
In the fourth quarter we completed 327 new deals and renewals for 1.8 million square feet.
Our leased rate improved by 10 basis sequentially and 70 basis points year-over-year to 95.7%.
This is our highest leased rate in 27 quarters or since the first quarter of 2008.
For the fourth quarter we achieved a positive pro-rata new deal spread of 25% a positive pro-rata renewal spread of 7.2% and a combined pro-rata spread of 11.9%.
Our new deal spread of 25% represents the highest spread in 10 quarters or since the second quarter of 2012.
When combined new deal and renewal volume for 2014 represents the highest volume in DDRs history for the US and Puerto Rico showing the continued strength and quality of our portfolio.
We are confident that we will build on our recent successes and deliver a leased rate increase of 25 to 50 basis points in 2015 consistent with our guidance.
More importantly we projecting same-store NOI growth of 2.5% to 3% despite the leased rate of nearly 96%.
We have consistently reached or exceeded 3% same-store NOI growth for the last 11 consecutive quarters which is a testament to the quality of our portfolio and the strength of our operational team.
One additional metric I would like to share with you is our renewal volume.
Total renewal volume reached a historic high in 2014 at 7.8 million square feet.
The renewal success we continue to have is directly attributable to the quality of our portfolio combined with the continued landlord-friendly supply and demand dynamic we are operating within.
We have mentioned on several calls that we fully expected renewal rates to stabilize in the mid to high-single-digits and this continues to play out.
As discussed in our supplement renewals require minimal to no CapEx and require no downtime resulting in enhanced portfolio economics without significant investments.
During the quarter we achieved a renewal retention rate of 90% above our historical average of 80% to 85% and we expect renewal spreads to remain in the high single-digit range for the foreseeable future.
It is worth noting that 31% of our total leases by GLA will expire by the end of 2017 with 18% of those leases being naked included in this number are 572 leases on space greater than 10 000 square feet with 75% of those leases being naked.
These naked leases provide with us tremendous opportunities to capitalize on the current leasing environment by growing rent at attractive spreads and improving tenant mix.
I can assure you that our leasing team is laser-focused on making the most of the opportunity in front of us and we will continue to execute effectively.
As you are all aware last week RadioShack filed for bankruptcy and Staples announced that it would acquire Office Depot.
From our perspective both announcements were anticipated and good news.
With regards to RadioShack the company accounts for only 113 000 square feet of space throughout our portfolio proactively preparing for this inevitable bankruptcy filing long before it actually happened has put us in a great position to backfill the space with quality retailers or to utilize the space to accommodate expansions for existing tenants within our centers.
Our leasing team has done a fantastic job of pre-marketing RadioShacks space and we have found there to be significant interest from a number of retailers.
We look forward to releasing RadioShacks space to market share winning retailers in addition to enhancing the credit profile of our portfolio.
Moving on to the Staples and Office Depot merger with 36 Staples locations and 57 Office Depot locations in our portfolio we were analyzing the potential impact of this merger long before any announcement was made.
I am sure you are familiar with our project accelerate initiative and Office Depot has been one of the high priority tenants that we have had significant dialogue with over the last year regarding lease terminations and the recapture of space.
Both Office Depot and Staples occupied quality space within our prime shopping center portfolio and gaining control of these locations will not only allow us to positively comp existing rents and enhance the merchandize mix of our centers but we will also be in a position to collect termination fees for high demand space that we are anxious to get back.
Similar to the initial merger between Office Depot and Office Max this process will take some time to finalize and we again expect this merger if approved to have a positive impact on our portfolio both qualitatively and quantitatively.
The bottom-line is that market share-winning retailers like Nordstrom Rack CJ Max Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Ross Sprouts Ulta and Five Below continue to grow aggressively.
New supply of power centers remain constrained and we view these and similar situations as great opportunities to generate growth.
And Ill now turn the call back over David.
Thanks Paul.
I would like to conclude by walking you through our previously announced 2015 operating FFO guidance.
The midpoint of the outline range of $1.20 to $1.25 per share represents a growth rate of 6% above the pure average and inline with our average growth rate over the past four years.
The OFFO range in conjunction with the recently announced 11% dividend increase to an annualized $0.69 per share should provide for a total shareholder return profile of between 7% and 11% at the current pricing.
On the operational front we are forecasting same-store NOI growth of 2.5% to 3% a midpoint below we achieved in 2014 but reflective of the high quality portfolio of power centers that is approaching full occupancy of approximately 97% in the next 18 to 24 months.
Growth components include approximately 125 basis points from rent bumps 75 basis points from renewal spreads and 50 to 100 basis points positive net absorption from new leasing.
Given the extremely favorable supply and demand dynamic in our sector and our dramatically improved portfolio quality leasing spreads should continue in line or slightly above what DDR achieved in 2014.
We also expect to bring online approximately $200 million of ground up development and redevelopment including approximately $100 million from legacy developments notably in Gilford Connecticut Orlando Florida and Seabrook New Hampshire just north of Boston.
The vast majority of what would be placed in service will be in the fourth quarter at incremental yields in the mid to high single-digits.
We also intend to bring online over 30 redevelopment projects totaling over $100 million with the majority coming from our full-scale redevelopment projects in Long Beach California and in the eastern sub-market of Columbus Ohio.
Redevelopment LOI will also be back half weighted with yields of approximately 10% on a stabilized basis.
Finally on the transaction front we are coming off a very robust 2014 and intend to continue the dramatic portfolio optimization as we reach the final steps of eliminating non-prime assets.
We are budgeting for a net neutral transaction activity to include the continued sale of non-prime line of assets at the mid 7% cap rate and a comparable amount of acquisitions at a total spread of approximately 100 basis points.
While we currently have $159 million of dispositions closed or under contract thus far in the first quarter the acquisitions environment remains incredibly competitive and we will not compromise on our return or asset qualitys thresholds for purposes of FFO and to that end forecasted bulk of the acquisition activity will be back-end weighted.
At this point I will turn the call over to the operator and we will begin to take your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Christy McElroy representing Citi.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
David can you comment on what if any changes you plan to make internally a CEO whether relating to strategy operations G&amp;A et cetera and I am wondering if youve already begun the process of backfilling the CFO role and whether you are looking internally externally or both? Sure the mandate is CFO is - or a CEO is a very recent one.
So I think I can say a few things but not overly inclined to go into too greater detail at this very early point.
One I think what weve accomplished at DDR over the past several years has been very significant and has worked very well.
I think the portfolio upgrade the balance sheet upgrade the management team changes and upgrades have all been very significant and I think that that has positioned us well for everything that we can accomplish going forward.
Id obviously work closely with Dan on strategic matters for a number of years and certainly support very significantly the direction weve gone.
So I think for us its how do we take the next several steps in that direction to get to blue chip status and I think there are steps on the portfolio side that continue to be out there dramatically less dilutive than what weve done in the past.
But I do think there is continued progress to be made both on the portfolio and the balance sheet.
I do think we have the opportunity to execute an even higher level than what weve executed at to-date and so excited as the new team gets together with the formal mandates to best position this company as we look out over the next several quarters and much more importantly over the next several years.
I also think we are much more focused on showing you what we can do than telling you what we can do.
I am so excited to put that on display is again as we look out over the next few quarters to years as for the CFO we have been incredibly strong finance and accounting team here and no concerns about the depth of that bench somewhat it was timing-related issues with the Boards formal decision on the CEO and trying to make sure we can get that out.
But for earnings and somewhat just the importance of that mandate wanting to make sure that it got its own attention and so we do expect to fill that role internally in the very near term and we will be in touch in the next several weeks regarding that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Nussbaum representing UBS.
Please proceed.
Hey David.
Good morning and congratulations.
Thank you Ross.
Let me see if I can tackle Christys question slightly differently.
I think during the CEO search process it kind of felt like there were a lot of whispers coming either true or false from around the DDR circle that perhaps the Board was looking for someone who would consider a change in strategic direction and that your predecessor was unwilling to be open to such a significant potential strategic change.
So I guess the question is just that which is in you are being named the CEO of the company is this the Board saying that they want you to take the company into a more diverse place like grocery anchored shopping centers urban retail or stick with what the game plan has been in the past few years? I will say a couple things obviously cannot completely speak on behalf of the Board but have had a great opportunity to spend considerable time with them through this process discussing aspects of that question.
And I dont think at least that I experience there was any formal push that there needed to be a strategic change.
I think the Boards focus was on finding the right person to lead this organization and trusting that that person in that team would execute well on the right strategies in a formal push for change.
But I think very prudently during the time of transition of Board that took the time to go through comprehensive searching and think about all of the options to best position shareholders for the near-term but even more so the long-term.
So I am really was in a party to the overwhelming majority of those discussions.
I think I heard the same rumors that you did but I think we are past that at this point.
The current team has the mandate more excited about what we can execute on with the great base of assets we have today but also with some continued improvement in that asset base as we look forward over the next few years.
Your next question comes from the line of George Auerbach representing Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Thanks good morning.
David last year you sold the $1 billion of assets and probably 700 million plus if we exclude Brazil.
I know lot of the heavy lifting is done in that portfolio refocus but just given compressing cap rates for shopping centers across the country how likely do you think it is that well see a sale much much more than $250 million included in the guidance? Yes I think its probably the greatest risk in - within that range not outside of that range but within that range and our guidance is that the transaction market does continue to be quite strong making dispositions easier and acquisitions more challenging.
The good news is that when you are getting better pricing on those dispositions the good news is that with the worst part of the portfolio gone it often times means we are selling better assets institutional quality assets that are still at the lowest tier than our portfolio but also generally larger assets.
And so instead of selling a lot of $5 million assets to get up to $250 million you do have some larger ones in there.
So with a $160 million roughly under contract or closed six weeks into the year I think it feels likely if todays pricing environment continues that we would probably exceed that $250 million level knock at the expense of our FFO guidance range.
But I think as one mid again to getting to the high-end or above that just when we think about the opportunity to accelerate this portfolio optimization in an environment that is strong.
On the other side of that last year we had a few unique opportunities particularly the ARCP portfolio where we could redeploy capital in an off-market transaction where we thought pricing was attractive and so even though we dramatically accelerated the disposition volume in 2014 we also found a few unique opportunities on the acquisition side.
I dont know that we can find those again but at this point last year I had no clue that we could find them last year.
So you should be sure that there is a team here working very aggressively on finding ways to redeploy that capital but obviously keeping our discipline very high in terms of return thresholds and our discipline very high in terms of asset quality.
Your next question comes from the line of Samir Khanal representing Evercore ISI.
Please proceed.
David good morning and congratulations for your promotion as well.
Thanks Samir.
I look at your lease spreads in the quarter and it looks like they are approaching 12% and as we think about kind of the next 12 months are these double-digit spread sustainable or do you think at some point that you have to moderate the kind of the high-digit - single-digits? I guess a lot of it will probably depend on kind of the new leases but as renewals cap out at some point just trying to get a sense of what the blend of spread would be on a run rate basis here? Hi Samir this is Paul.
I think those spreads are sustainable certainly for the 12 months period you are talking about and probably beyond that they want to go too far out but changes that can happen in the macro obviously.
But you hit it on the head the renewal rates are strong are going to stay in that I think 7 to 9 range and then we should be able to sustain that on at the run rate going forward.
You are going to see more balance if you will in the new deal rate we had a very very strong quarter obviously with the 25% pro rata spread on the new deals.
But there is still going to be - they are going to be out there I would expect they are going to be in the mid-teens to the mid-20s.
We are going to have some outlier deals that are very strong that they are help prompt that and so that blended spread of low double-digits is achievable for the foreseeable future.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt representing Bank of America.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
First David congratulations.
Thank you Craig.
My question is how should we think about DDRs relationship with Blackstone given the Radar Hill partnership? I think you should think of DDRs relationship with Blackstone is a very close one Dan was absolutely an important part of that as evidenced by his new firms partnership with Blackstone.
But there is an extraordinarily deep relationship with Blackstone particularly through Luke Partridge our Head of Capital Markets he is also been leading the efforts with our recent transactional activity with Blackstone.
So weve obviously worked very very closely with Dan over the years weve obviously worked very very closely with Blackstone over the years and so we wouldnt expect any change to the very close nature of our relationship with them.
Even forgetting personalities for a second both sides of this partnership have made a considerable amount of money in the two transactions that weve entered into - that have been monetized at least from a Blackstone perspective and we are very encouraged by the early returns from our third venture together.
And so I think more important than anything financially this has worked extremely well but beyond that the organizations have worked well together and I would expect that that would continue.
Your next question comes from the line Steve Sakwa representing Evercore ISI.
Please proceed.
Thanks good morning.
Hi Steve.
Hi I guess to go back to the disposition acquisition and kind of where to put the money and given the comment that you are going to be approaching 97% occupancy Im just wondering where development plays a role here and I know that many of the larger boxes that historically drove the development are not as active today but I am just wondering as you look at the landscape can development play a more meaningful role over the next two to four years? Steve Ill start with the overall - my overall view and talking for the entire sector.
I dont think its going to play a very meaningful role over the next several years and you hit the key point to call the Khols the Target the Lowes these are the guys driving new power centers strip center developments and they are not making deals right now.
And in terms of our portfolio thats pretty exciting weve got several underway.
We are finishing up Seabrook as you know and really just getting going on a project in Orlando and it Gilford Connecticut land weve held for sometime well be starting a second phase down in Belgate which was one of our new acquisitions done in Charlotte a year-and-a half two years ago.
So we are going to continue to be opportunistic.
We look most of our development has been focused on the legacy land best way to monetize the land as we look at it and - but we will keep our eyes and ears open as we were presented with of lot of opportunities all the time obviously they are very difficult to make work meaning new ground-up developments and we are not going to go out and find a land which is going to have a long entitlement process or a long lead time in terms of soliciting retailer interest.
So well continue to do it on a limited scale best way to monetize the land and in terms of this entire sector I will see it being a significant factor for at least three to four years.
Your next question comes from the line Todd Thomas representing Keybanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Yes hi good morning.
David you talked about the balance sheet a bit.
Leverage has ticked up over the last couple of quarters as youve continued to recycle capital and assets.
I was just curious what the current thinking here in terms of lowering leverages from here.
Do you feel that this is sort of a comfortable level for the company to operate at longer-term? Yes.
Ill address it in a couple ways.
To the last point I absolutely believe that it is a comfortable level in terms of a very acceptable risk profile and appropriate place to be even if the world got dramatically worst.
That said our leverage will go down as we look out over the next several quarters the next several years.
I think we had outlined targets in the past I am in complete agreements that the delveraging was slower even took a pause in 2014 and you will not see that happen again this year.
So while I have no discomforts where we sit today you will see additional progress on that front.
I cant talk about this without broadening the topic to what we really focus on internally which is risk leverage is one component of risk and there are many others.
And so when I think of 2014 if you ask me the question did we significantly lower the risk of this company I would say absolutely even though we did not significantly lowered the leverage of this company.
And so I think that the exit of Brazil particularly as we look at an exchange rate that is 20% 25% wide of where we sold that even for a very good company down there but one that did contain other risks for DDR as a US dollar-denominated owner of that as we have eliminated a number of joint ventures as weve significantly extended debt duration with our recent bond issuance.
As weve eliminated a number of joint ventures as we have eliminated over 80 non-prime or prime minus assets last year.
I have a long list of reasons I feel good that we significantly lowered risk last year even if we didnt lower leverage on a go forward basis you will see us lower risk and lower leverage.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Morgan representing MLV.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Its been a while since you came out with your prime asset definition and David you alluded the prime minus in terms of sales from there.
I mean as you look at 2014 the experience in terms of the performance of the assets within the buckets that you created how - are you seeing any shifts? Are there more centers that are becoming prime minus or non-prime that would kind of be better viewed as sale candidates now or maybe there are centers going the other way because of improvements in market conditions? But is the centers with demarcation that you came up with a couple of years ago few years ago now I mean is it the way you see it today or would you raise or lower the bars if you think about 2015? Yes.
Its a good question and it is something we focus on a lot because honestly I think the mindset has worked well the performance of the assets has validated our ranking and whats been the toughest part is the nomenclature.
So we originally created prime and non-prime weve then expanded prime to prime plus prime and prime minus in addition to non-prime.
And so weve created more grades as we refined our portfolio management process effectively the re-underwriting in great detail and long-term budgeting of every asset we owned through a department we created about two years ago.
And so I think while the nomenclature has gotten tougher our focus on it has gotten even more significant our ability to quantify in terms of a zero to 100 score for every asset has gotten dramatically more detailed and more significant and more important in driving our transaction activity both on a buy side seen how new assets fit in and on the sell-side identifying exactly what the sale candidates are for this year and next year.
In the past it might have been as simple as just same here is the pool of clearly non-prime non-institutional assets that we have no business owning.
I think today its a much more quantifiable exercise and thoughtful exercise as wed have to more clearly define what makes sense either because the higher risk profile or lower growth profile to not own them going forward.
And so we havent rolled out the complete details with the exception of this new property to us well show off the complete details of that analysis every once in a while.
But obviously a proprietary analysis that we do internally that continues to raise the bar for average DDR quality raise the bar also then for - from what we are selling.
And so thats why we struggle at times the question about the portfolio transformation done yes.
As we define the portfolio transformation four to five years ago when we first outlined some of these turns that is absolutely done in fact weve meaningfully exceeded what weve planned.
Are we done optimizing and improving this portfolio? Absolutely not and so I think youll continue to see activity there driven by this quantifiable portfolio management exercise that continues to identify the lowest tier assets in terms of our ranking system for disposition over the coming year and so that process will continue and intensify.
Your next question comes from the line of Alexander David Goldfarb representing Sandler O'Neill.
Please proceed.
Good morning and congratulations David.
Thank you Alex.
Just a question on FFO its come up on a few of the different conference calls this quarter.
If you look at what the company has achieved in the past since the downturn huge strides that continue to sort of operating FFO sort of harkens back to the dark days when there was a lot of stuff going on the numbers.
For the most part you guys have cleaned up the FFO has very little.
These days I mean obviously this quarter had one major item but for the most part the numbers have gotten substantially cleaner.
So do you think that DDR will start to just use the NAREIT definition and lead with that guide with that and obviously point out the one-timers.
But get back towards the NAREIT definition as a way of demonstrating the transition that the company has completed? Yes I think number one we have made massive strides in transparency over the past five years or so and youll only see that continues as we go forward.
The way we look at it is the small number of adjustments we make to get from NAREIT to defined FFO to operating FFO are justified by the fact that we truly believe that is the better way to understand the company its earnings power and its growth over time.
That said we disclose NAREIT defined FFO we talk about it we think about it.
There is clear reconciliation from EPS to NAREIT defined FFO and then from that FFO to operating FFO per share.
And so we leave to the analyst community and the investor community to pick whats most useful for them.
Definitely understand your points about not wanting companies manipulating numbers wanting things apples-to-apples as often as possible.
And so I think we want the disclosure out there for that.
But we do end up with one-off situation whether its Dan separation payment that was expensed or whether its the write-down on a piece of Toronto lands because Target pulled their multi-billion dollar Canada program off the table.
I do think those are unique one-time items that at minimum we will highlight and people can use NAREIT defined FFO or operating FFO and we are going to try to make it as clear as possible how to get between the two and basically the way that we think is most useful to look at the company in terms of an appropriate number to ascribe a multiple to or associated growth rate with.
Your next question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim representing SunTrust.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
Congrats David.
Thanks Ki Bin  You are welcome.
And so I think you bring out little bit of a unique perspective youve been in the buy-side youve been in the CFO role now in the CEO role.
How do you internally think about balancing - I know someone - and Steve touched on it but balancing financial leverage versus NAV per share or FFO per share and I know you alluded to lowering leverage over time but should we expect that to come from asset repositioning recycling or is equity more in the table now than it has been in the past? We think about all those concepts a lot probably FFO per share least of those I said we absolutely understand the importance of growing that metric.
Over time probably not on a quarterly basis but on a much longer term basis the question is constantly asked how do we best position this company to grow FFO per share over a very long period of time and certainly how do we grow NAV per share on a regular basis.
You mentioned aspects of my background I think the most interesting part of it that me and a lot of other people here live through one of the most significant blow-ups in this industry in terms of what we live through in the late 2008 and early 2009.
And thats I think is what has impacted us the most those scars are deep those are not forgotten.
And so we will never lose sight of the risk profile of this company even if another financial crisis of that magnitude is extraordinarily unlikely we will never lose sight of that.
And so I think thats what continues to drive the significant focus on risk management here.
I went through a lot of the ways that we significantly lowered risk last year.
The one thats obviously somewhat missing is leverage reduction and defining and debt-to-EBITDA standpoint.
I still think you are more likely to see leverage reduction through EBITDA increases and simple debt reduction.
I dont think there is a massively different view towards capital raising equity is a portion of that.
Weve used it over the past several years many times.
But weve obviously been sensitive to the price that hasnt been equity issuance - any price by any means and so I think its constantly something that well be evaluated as part of that plan.
Id also remind you we have - because of our relatively low dividend payout ratio more free cash flow per share than any of our competitors which we certainly think of is equity that is created every year.
We obviously address the issue earlier of having more concern about dispositions being higher than acquisitions.
And so I think well not equity that is additional capital that comes in available for leverage reduction or any other purposes.
And so we continue to believe that there are considerable ways that we can lower leverage either by debt reduction or by EBITDA increase and equity issuance is one of those levers.
Your next question comes from the line of James Sullivan representing Cowen Group.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Maybe just to take another stab at the issue of external growth outside of acquisitions I mean Steve asked a question about this earlier and Ross implied a question I guess about grocery anchored centers.
But given that power center ground-up power center development is not going to - you dont expect it to be likely for another couple of years and I am assuming its not likely because potential anchor tenants are not willing the pay the rents that are required to generate an acceptable return.
When you think about the external growth alternatives other than acquisitions that leaves you with redevelopments and you have some of those and potentially you are going to expand that menu.
But one of the possibilities of course is doing smaller infill centers or grocery anchored centers some of your peers are ramping up that development pipeline.
So I am just curious what your appetite is to increase the redevelopment pipeline as a percentage of the total external spend as well as possibly doing some grocery anchored products? Yes lot of questions in it Jim.
First on the development side I dont know that its so much - when I talk about some of the larger anchors the discounters department stores its not a function of not willing to pay the rents to make ground-up development they are not doing deals.
I mean Target is going to fix their business domestically.
Thats very clear.
They are going to do a handful of deals majority of those been express or urban and not going to be - not some fields we are going to play in and what they fit into one of our centers.
Ill touch on the grocery anchored concept and then David could follow-up.
Its just not something.
We worked our way out of a lot of the grocery anchored centers heavily reliant on small shops base.
Weve talked about the shops base in the power center sector of our portfolio.
Its a much higher quality shop space.
We still have some clean up to do through lease up and through dispositions.
But its not an area right now but we are thinking - but not that wed rule anything up but not thinking about jumping into that business as we are seeing vacancy doing a pretty big way.
Redevelopment is clearly a focus that continues to be a robust program.
We spent over $125 million last year and brought about the same number of different projects obviously because they are not just calendar year projects but brought about the same amount into service throughout the year.
In 2015 we are going to spend somewhere $100 million and $115 million hopefully bring in between that in developments about $200 million as David mentioned in his script.
That is a program we are continuing to rollout.
We view every asset within the portfolio regularly in terms of what opportunities are out there that we havent identified yet.
And there is still a big pipeline in that redevelopment.
You have to see that going on for the next several years where we can spend and bring in somewhere between $100 million and $115 million a year at those much more risk adverse returns north of 10.
Its definitely a different type of project than development comes with a lot of that risk.
The only asset you know whats going on easier to entitle et cetera.
So that will be the focus as far as going forward.
Yes Jim the exact question you ask is one that we ask internally and Paul and I discuss quite a bit of where should we be allocating capital within these projects and I think exactly as Paul outlined clearly today redevelopment is the focus and we are not seeing many opportunities elsewhere.
Lines are blurring and so you are seeing many many more of our projects including our new development in Gilford Connecticut that is grocery anchored but still much more of a power center sort of focus in terms of when you look at whom we are going to place the side the fresh market thats going there.
Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao representing Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning everyone.
David just want to go back to your comments about the share gains vision and generally being agreement in line obviously thats been very successful for you guys over the years.
Just curious if you could comment on some areas or that maybe you didnt agree with Dan as closely? I mean look Dan and I work very closely especially for the last five years but really for the entire eight years that Ive been here and so I think aspects of this strategy are both his and mine and Pauls and a broader group of the industry the experts that we solicited to make sure that we were on the right page.
And so I dont think there are any massive differences in opinion that in terms of strategic direction that we disagreed on in terms of anything major and so.
I am excited to have the formal mandate to run the organization and excited to show you exactly how well we think we can execute on most of the strategy youve seen and some additional items over the next hopefully many years.
Your next question comes from the line of Carol Campbell representing Hilliard Lyons.
Please proceed.
Congratulations David.
Thank you very much.
Can you go over the details of the convertible notes that you talked about earlier.
Just exactly whats included in guidance? Yes absolutely.
This is for - originally issuance what we thought on that is obviously a convertible security more complicated than straight equity or straight debt.
I do think weve realized from a final conversion process and from an accounting process is actually more complicated than even we had bargained for particularly when the security is in the money.
So at this point its a $350 million principal security with a conversion feature.
The cash interest rate that we pay is 1.75% the GAAP interest rate at which we expense the interest is closer to 5.25%.
So we have considerable effectively phantom interest that is currently being expensed and will be expensed until we call this note for redemption in the fourth quarter of this year.
The other thing - and so the good news about that refinance is $350 million of principal is that right now - and I certainly think likely by the end of the year we should be able to refinance that $350 million of principal at a rate comfortably inside that 5.25% rate that is expensed in our earnings.
The aspect of the security that has not historically shown up in results has been the dilutive nature of the conversion feature.
At this point the notes are in the money to the tune of about 6 million shares that would be issued as part of our calling of these notes in the fourth quarter and so we will start to reflect the dilutive nature of those securities for the second - excuse me - for the third - for the final three quarters of this year those will be reflected in our diluted share count.
So well still be expensing the higher interest expense as well as the additional shares even though they are not yet outstanding.
And so there is a negative impact to our 2015 results due to this security even if it doesnt in fact convert and get refinanced until the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Tayo Okusanya representing Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Yes good morning.
David let me also add my congratulations as well very well deserved.
Thank you.
In regards to the asset sales this quarter I mean could you just give us a sense again the cap rates on those transactions and a general sense of the quality of those assets? Just as we kind of try to understand whats left in regards to lower quality assets that would still be on the block for sale? Yes we went through a little bit of the detail in the call getting down to only 32 wholly-owned non-prime assets remaining.
So I think you can see how much that pie is shrinking relative to 300 plus of those 400 plus of those only a few years ago when we think about the transaction activity in the fourth quarter it was on a wholly-owned basis spread across the country.
Generally small to mid-sized assets looking at a range of probably $5 million up to as high as $40 million to build up to that $600 million gross amount which is $258 million at DDRs share.
We also had two portfolio sales that went to liquidation of two of our joint ventures for $150 million and $170 million and so all of that aggregated up into that $600 million of total sales volume at a mid to high 7% cap rate range.
I think the sort of product that we are looking to sell in 2015 is not higher than that and you are looking at a pricing environment that seems to only be getting stronger and so we would expect that cap rate range for 2015 sales to be somewhat lower and so we are encouraged by the activity that we continue to have on the deposition front.
You are absolutely right to know there is less and less non-prime product out there.
But then the definition just becomes whats still the lowest 5% to 10% on the quality perspective - on the quality spectrum in this portfolio and thats what the focus is for 2015 sales.
And so youll continue to see us active probably in the mid 7 cap rate range for the year and selling assets in - again probably hand $30 million range with a few of them might be a little larger than that.
Your next question comes from the line of Haendel St.
Juste representing Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hey there.
Congratulations from me as well.
Thank you.
So one quick clarification before I ask my question.
Just wanted to go back to an earlier question.
It sounded - I just wanted to make sure that the current guidance does not contemplate incremental CFO or CIO costs? The current guidance includes the company that we were sort of mandated to have looking back a couple months ago when we first came out of that where there with the expectation that we would have me and we would have a CEO some notionally Dans run rate sort of compensation.
Today we are not adding that additional CEO and so I think that does create some G&amp;A benefits for us even with some compensation changes for internal people moving into the CEO and CFO roles.
Okay got that.
And my question is on your overall small-shop occupancy in aggregate you guys are at 92.5% now up from 91.3% last quarter.
Have you maxed out the opportunity there? And then if you could also comment on demand for the space that is sub 5 000 square feet where the occupancy is 86.5% how would you assess the demand for that kind of - for that size space? Where do you think you could take that segment of your portfolio occupancy up to and then any incremental capital that might be required to do so? Yes Haendel the 92.5% you quoted is really on that 5000 to 10 000 feet and as you mentioned the less than 5 000 is 86.5% opportunities in both.
So the combined for everything under 10 which is - I know its a - the way a lot of our peers quoted is that 88.7% and then weve talked in the past and since believe we can get that combined everything under 10.
So the 0% to 5 and the 5 to 10 to 92%.
So weve got a better bit of 300 plus basis points.
Demand is good right and we are doing it in a lot of ways.
And so we are consolidating shops base weve seen several deals where we have combined two or three or four of these units for an Ulta or a Five Below or a PetSmart.
And that's something well continue to do as we get away from the smallest of shop space.
The biggest percentage of - the zero to 5000 is going to be in some of the grocery anchored stuff - some of the stuff that you are going to see on disposition less.
But again the demand is good.
We are seeing - we are not as mom and pop-centric.
I think that some of our peers again based on the character of our centers and we are going to see more franchisees more of the service providers have seen a lot of food demand but we still got room to run.
Again as we try to get that zero to 10 000 up to a combined 92% which is at 88.7%.
If you are looking at comparative supplements too you got to remember that in at year 2013 weve had some - we had Brazil in that number.
So I feel pretty good about what we did over the course of the year.
We were up 80 basis points jut on the quarter.
The stuff doesnt show - its shows at 10 basis points down year-over-year but that included Brazil in the year end 2013 number.
So the progress is good.
The demand is good.
Youll see us reduce the overall percentage of our GLA devoted to that smaller size but youll see us get down leased rate up over 90% over the next couple of years.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason White representing Green Street Advisors.
Please proceed.
Just wondering as you look back over the last two three four years of acquisitions and how they performed relative to your underwriting.
Is there anything that you plan on tweaking in your underwriting process to maybe target assets that you might feel are going to perform better than perhaps your underwriting would have suggested? Yes I mean its been a major focus for us especially after through the crisis completely taken a few years off and barely even reviewing acquisition opportunities because the capital wasnt there for us and so as we get back into that business probably four years ago as we started to outline the power center pieces its probably three years ago as a mis-priced asset we have been very active on that front.
Weve done the few large portfolio deals mostly from joint ventures.
So assets we knew well so Id sort of exclude that from this analysis and outside of that its on the ARCP deal and a lot of one-off transactions.
I would say in general the assets have performed better than our underwriting.
There is going to be two reasons behind that one plugging them into our platform we always find a few additional opportunities two the overall macro environment has continued to get better which I think is important and three maybe most important and most controllably I do think weve taken cautious view to underwriting is why we lose the overwhelming majority of assets that we bid on because we are cautious in our underwriting.
And you know often and you know the way that we think about retailers that doesnt mean that we think every - supply stores going away and you underwrite that space as zero but it does mean that we take a cautious view on underwriting and we are not filling everything up completely in the next few months and I think we got reasonable lead time capital cost everything else that go into that.
And so I think for those various reasons weve generally seen acquisitions outperform our expectations given the volume that have been joint venture acquisitions I think there its a simpler case where we already knew them.
But even on the third-party deals weve generally seen them exceed our expectations.
Going forward our acquisitions focus I think becomes even more intensive as we look to the quality of land in terms of defining overall locational quality.
So retailers very important market overall very important but specific sub-market and specific dirt that we are sitting on I think is something that it times looking at the long history of DDR we hadnt been as focused on as we should have and as we look forward I think that becomes even more important for us.
Certainly it doesnt mean that we will be competing with the overwhelming majority of capital in the world that exclusively looks at five or six coastal markets for acquisitions.
I do think there are lot more places that we can make money and that our tenants can make money than simply those five or six markets they will be a place that we certainly look for opportunities.
But if we think returns are better and market and dirt quality is extremely good you can certainly see us look at a broader list of top 40 or 50 MSAs not just top five or top six.
And so I think well just continue to refine that focus more going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Lucas representing Capital One Securities.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Just a quick question on the - David you had mentioned before a little bit about the blurring of concepts as grocery starts to get into the larger format centers.
I guess I was curious as to what your thoughts are as to any cap rate differential for large format centers that have or - and then those that don't have a grocery component and if you could quantify that cap rate differential? Yes I think its a good question.
Its certainly case-by-case basis but I think overall wed say there is at least 25 basis point benefit to adding a grocer to a power center whether thats a traditional grocer whether thats the addition of considerable food thats driving traffic to a Walmart or Target or Costco or whether its the actual addition of a box like a Sprouts or Fresh Market into an existing power center.
I think you are seeing an immediate sort of 25 basis point maybe even a little larger than that maybe 50 basis points benefit to the cap rate.
And so I think an important focus for us is making sure we do have that grocery component as part of the merchandize mix but also very important as we think of terminal value of a center.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Donnelly representing Wells Fargo.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys and thanks for taking my question.
David you had a few questions on external growth I actually have a question on internal growth.
At DDR's Investor Day back in 2013 I think you guys had given a five year same-store NOI outlook of like 2.5% to 3.5% growth rate.
Since that time I think youve paced around 3% looking forward I think you guys are guiding that 2.5% to 3% towards the lower end of that outlook and I would have thought that growth would have been more front-end loaded.
Is that a function of industry conditions or timing or just knowing what you know now would you maybe have guided to a slightly lower range than you guys did back then? I certainly dont think anything has gotten worse in the environment.
I absolutely dont think anything has gotten worse within the portfolio.
And so honestly I would continue to be very supportive of thinking about that 2.5% to 3.5% range that we articulated a few years ago and so we executed on some of that probably a little better than the midpoint of that range and think that we should be able to be around the midpoint as we look out over the next few years.
Obviously well try to push hard to exceed that but obviously wed rather show you that over the coming quarters and years and tell you about it.
Your final question comes from the line of Christy McElroy representing Citi.
Please proceed.
Hey David it's Michael Bilerman.
I personally think it was your time on the sell-side that was the most important and defining of your career so.
Absolutely.
I did have a question on G&amp;A and I know you talked a little bit about sort of backfilling the CEO and CFO roles internally and maybe there is a slight positive there relative to existing comp ranges that are in G&amp;A.
But maybe just more broadly I think there has been some discussion or scuttle around the marketplace that at north of $80 million that DDR's G&amp;A levels were too high or have been too high.
And I guess as both in the prior CFO role and then the CEO role do you agree with that or not and is there a material level that you could see in terms of savings if you are going to manage the company either the same or differently than it was being run before? Yes I think if you look at it from pure ratio standpoint for the handful of folks that either run the whole universe or some subset as G&amp;A as a percentage of revenue as a percentage of market cap I think we generally screen very well in terms of a reasonable compensation structure especially for a company thats performed relatively well.
And so I dont think there is a problem where anyone is banging on the door saying you have to run this more efficiently but I do think with any transition and this has obviously been a significant one.
There is an opportunity to evaluate the organization structure the G&amp;A load and so we are absolutely embarking on that and hope that we will be able to find some opportunities to run more efficiently.
I think there are two aspects to that I mean there is the one side of that thats the simple G&amp;A savings that we can hopefully generate I mean some of it very obvious by not replacing Dan.
So I think thats clear and hopefully we can locate some other savings.
And I think overall the greater focus is just how can we run the company as efficiently as possible constant recognition that we work for shareholders their capital that we are spending on anything and its their returns that that were tasked to generate.
So again very early to answer this question.
I mean weve lived inside of here and we got some views on it.
But - and I think we see some opportunity but it will take us sometime to figure out exactly what that opportunity is.
And again its not the penny-wise pound-foolish thoughts its how do we most efficiently operate this company for shareholders and so your question is a good one and then it is a very reasonable to assume that that is a considerable focus now that this team has demanded.
With no further questions at this time I would now like to turn the call back to President and CEO David Oakes.
Please proceed.
Thank you all very much for your time and for your support of this team through this process and we look forward to many many more of these.
Thank you.
Have a nice day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in todays conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to the DDR Corp First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Meghan Finneran Senior Financial Analyst.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On todays call you will hear from President and CEO David Oakes; CFO and Treasurer Luke Petherbridge; and Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today maybe forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand that these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ maybe found in the press release issued yesterday and the documents that we file with the SEC including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 as amended.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on todays call including FFO and operating FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
Last we will be observing a one question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
At this time it is my pleasure to introduce our President and Chief Executive Officer David Oakes.
Thank you Meghan.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I would like to start off by discussing the focus of this management team the progress made in the first quarter and the implications that this refined focus had on operating results for the quarter.
As we have conveyed the investment community over the past two months we are acutely focused on long-term net asset value creation for our shareholders and we are committed to building a portfolio of Fortress power centers which combined with a low risk balance sheet and more simplified story and a talented team that we are refining should translate into outperformance in both full and bear markets.
We have made good progress on those fronts in recent months that you will hear about throughout this call.
First we are accelerating disposition of our non-prime and prime minus assets beyond our original guidance of $250 million given the current pricing environment.
While these buckets continue to diminish in terms of overall value we think it is prudent to expedite the sale of these assets at historically strong prices for our property type as evidenced by large portfolio trade that was recently announced in our sector.
Very simply we only seek to own assets which sit on high-quality dirt with attractive growth profiles.
And those shopping centers that do not meet these criteria will be disposed of.
That increased focus on the quality of the dirt and our strict underwriting standards have made the acquisition environment difficult although we remain confident in our ability to source unique high-quality acquisitions at attractive prices.
Longer term we envisioned that the overall asset count of the company will continue to decline although we would expect our total portfolio value to be higher as we find larger scale acquisitions in redevelopment and wish to invest in the coming years.
Second we are reducing risk and creating more simplified company and remain paramount to our story.
Our progress continued this quarter with the issuance of additional long-term unsecured debt and restructuring of our lines of credit in term loan.
All of which extended our weighted average duration and reduced DDRs cost of capital on which Luke will elaborate.
Also during the quarter we wound down the Coventry joint venture which removed the overhang of legacy $500 million lawsuit and allowed DDR to effectively dispose of 22 low-quality joint venture assets and gain 100% ownership of a high-quality center in Southern California.
Third our organization continues to improve and heighten its focus on excellence and execution long-term planning operational efficiency and collaboration.
These characteristics drove some of the activity that you saw in the first quarter and should have a much greater impact over time driving consistent long-term value creation even at the expense of some short-term noise.
We are confident that our shareholders will see the fruits of these changes in the coming quarters.
Finally I would like to spend a moment on a specific example how this long-term focus can create short-term noise.
Our decision to reduce our expected holding period on 25 operating shopping centers and the majority of our remaining land parcels that drove the requirement for the impairment charge as a result of our desire to more quickly reduce our exposure to weaker assets while we acknowledge the historic investment missteps the current team is committed to rapidly moving forward in an effort to create that fortress power center portfolio and report a cleaner earnings figure in future quarters.
Additionally our commentary regarding increased asset sales could indicate near-term earnings headwinds.
However our team believes that this is outweighed by the long-term benefit to shareholders as evidenced by the outperformance over time of those the blue-chip REITs who are similarly focused on capital allocation over the course of multiple cycles.
I will now turn the call over Paul.
Thanks David.
Operating fundamentals remain strong in the first quarter as evidenced by the continued strength in deal volume and spreads.
We executed 289 new deals and renewals for 2.6 million square feet in line with historic volume and resulting in a leased rate increase of 40 basis points year-over-year.
For the quarter we achieved a positive pro-rata new deal spread of 26.9%.
Our highest pro-rata spread since we began tracking this metric.
We also achieved a positive pro-rata renewal spread of 6.7% resulting in a combined pro-rata spread of 9.7%.
In regard to the renewal volume and spread as you know these metrics will vary quarter-to-quarter based on the pool of leases that are being renewed in any given quarter.
As an example in this first quarter we had several large anchor tenants exercising options at lower single-digit spreads.
If these anchoring renewals were excluded our renewal spread would increase by 120 basis points to 7.9% on a pro-rata basis.
Also worth noting 95% of all tenants with the opportunity to exercise an option did so in this quarter well above the typical rate.
This retention is a direct result of the improvements in the portfolio and the lack of downtime and capital required more than offsets the lower spread on an economic basis.
Our overall leased rate declined by 20 basis points sequentially and increase by 40 basis points year-over-year to 95.5%.
As I have previously mentioned a slight decline in the first quarter was the historical norm.
In addition to the typical seasonality of move-ins to move-outs this quarters decline also reflects the impact of the RadioShack bankruptcy and Project Accelerate as we continue to position our assets for long-term growth.
The RadioShack bankruptcy alone accounted for 40 basis points of the 50 basis point decline in the leased rate per space less than 5 000 square feet.
Given our pipeline of new deals we remain confident in our guidance to increase leased rate by 25 basis points to 50 basis points by year end 2015.
It is also important to remember that we view the bankruptcy of retailers such as RadioShack or Deb Shops in a very positive way.
We have been anticipating getting this space back for some time and are excited about  by the opportunities these situations offer given the current leasing environment.
First and foremost gaining control of the quality small shop space that tenants like RadioShack occupies within our shopping centers allows us to re-merchandise our space and accommodate higher quality and better credit tenants.
In many cases the simple backfilling of space results in an attractive rent comp ranging from the high single-digits to the mid-40% range.
In other cases we are working with new or existing tenants to consolidate small shop space allowing tenants to get right sized or creating an opportunity to add a desirable retailer where we previously did not have enough space to accommodate them.
So while for one example at an 800 000 square foot wholly-owned prime plus power center in New Jersey we proactively retained control of the RadioShack lease in the bankruptcy proceedings.
This allowed us to control the real estate and consolidate RadioShack space with an adjacent small shop unit that was chronically vacant to accommodating a power retailer.
We achieved the rent comp of over 33% and a return on invested capital of over 30%.
Based on the deals which are already negotiated where we were simply waiting for leases to be rejected as well as initial expressions of interest we are confident the re-tenanting of the RadioShack space will produce improved merchandise mix at higher rents and with limited down time.
The simple nature of retail is that we will continue to see winning and losing retailers.
We have consistently welcomed and proactively pursued the recapture of space occupied by retailers and declined.
These situations provide us with a breadth of operational advantages and value creation opportunities.
We continue to build relationships and execute deals with best-in-class market share winning retailers and we analyze all opportunities in great detail to ensure we are making quality deals that enhance the merchandise mix and economic value of our assets and create long-term value for our shareholders.
I would now like to take a few moments to update you on our current development activity.
As you know we opened Seabrook Commons last summer.
Seabrook Commons is a 380 000 square foot prime power center located north of Boston and includes Wal-Mart Dicks Sporting Goods PetSmart Michaels ULTA Famous Footwear and Five Below as well as the complementary restaurant lineup consisting of Panera Outback Steakhouse and Noodles &amp; Company.
Home Goods will soon be added to this strong lineup as they are slated to open this fall.
Following on the success we are experiencing with Seabrook we continue to make great progress on both Guilford Commons located just East of New Haven Connecticut and Lee Vista Promenade located in Orlando Florida.
We broke ground on Guilford Commons last fall and the center is on track to open during the fourth quarter of this year.
Guilford Commons will span 130 000 square feet and include best-in-class retailers such as the Fresh Market Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Michaels and DSW as well as 40 000 square feet of shop and specialty space.
We will be 85% leased at opening and expect to be fully leased in the first quarter of 2016.
We also broke ground on Lee Vista Promenade in December and are on target to open the first phase of this center in the fourth quarter.
Lee Vista Promenade will be a 450 000 square foot multi-phase project located in a heavily traffic area just north of the Orlando Airport.
The center will initially be anchored by a theater and a great lineup of junior anchors and restaurants including Home Goods PECO Five Below Famous Footwear and others.
In closing as you know RECON is just around the corner.
As we head into this years show our focus continues to be on the consistent qualitative and quantitative improvement of our assets.
The leasing environment continues to be strong and we intend to take full advantage of this opportunity.
As usual we will have a full slate of meetings scheduled and look forward to having productive meetings with our retail partners as well as members of the investment community.
And I want to remind everyone that we will be located at the Villagio again this year.
And please keep in mind that our space will be open on Sunday as well as Monday and Tuesday.
We look forward to seeing you there.
And I will now turn the call over to Luke.
Thanks Paul.
Before I review our first quarter financial results I would like to take a moment to express my gratitude to both David and the board for the opportunity to lead the financial and transactional arms of our company.
I look forward to continuing to work closely with our talented and experienced team our bankers our partners and the investment community in my expanded role.
I am excited about the direction of the company and our ability to generate above average long-term returns for our shareholders as we continue to strive to become a blue-chip organization.
In conjunction with David I will oversee two primary goals in order to position us for long period of our performance.
First to operate our business with the appropriate level of risk and second to expedite our portfolio transformation which is already seen over $2 billion of more than 250 lower quality assets sold in the past 5 years.
Our first quarter activity is evidence of continued execution on these goals.
Turning to the results for the first quarter operating FFO was $107.1 million or approximately $0.30 per share.
Including non-operating items FFO for the quarter was $13.2 million or $0.04 a share.
Non-operating items primarily consisted of $279 million of non-cash impairment charges.
In light of the attractive cap rate environment combined with the transition in leadership this management team will further seek to accelerate our portfolio repositioning.
And as such we felt it is now prudent to review the basis of the assets we dont deem to be long-term holds.
This review has resulted in us booking in the first quarter an impairment of $279 million which includes $190 million of operating assets and $99 million of land.
We wrote down five of our final six tracks of land and intend to market and dispose of these at figures close to the current basis.
These actions support our message that we will operate with fewer non-income producing and non-prime assets and we will continue to utilize the markets low cap rate environment to our advantage.
We expect any quarterly deltas between FFO and operating FFO going forward to be truly non-recurring.
This decision was the first of many that this new team will make as we look to expedite the final stages of the transformation and report a clean and transparent earnings figure in future quarters.
I would now like to begin my summary of the quarterlys transaction activity by discussing the wind down of our legacy joint venture with Coventry.
At the time of its dissolution the joint venture managed 22 assets in an 80-20 partnership between Coventry Real Estate Advisors and DDR.
As we had no GAAP interest in 18 of the 22 assets the financial impact of the venture was minimal on a company wide scale.
However exiting Coventry mark a successful resolution of a significant lousily [ph] which the company successfully defended and it further exemplifies our goal of exiting smaller joint ventures which would no longer consist over the companys business strategy in favor of longer term partnerships with large sophisticated institutional partners that would better align with the companys current investment objectives.
In exchange for our $0.20 interest in 21 of the portfolios 22 assets we acquired from Coventrys $0.80 interest in Buena Park Place a 220 000 square foot prime portfolio of prime located in Orange County California.
As overall pricing continues to favor to sellers Buena Park Place has been our only acquisition year-to-date.
Notwithstanding the environment we remain confident reaching our acquisition goal for $250 million predominantly in the latter half of the year.
During the quarter we disposed  obtained assets there by the Coventry joint venture totaling $104 million of the companys share and had seven additional assets under contract as are at quarter end totaling $80 million.
And we expect that amount to grow  under contract to grow as we look to opportunistically dispose of assets at attractive pricing.
Should this trend continue we expect our disposition activity to exceed our acquisition activity in the first half of 2015.
As announced last week we closed on amendments to two revolving credit facilities and a new unsecured term loan.
Pricing on both revolvers was reduced by 15 basis points and is set at LIBOR plus 100 basis points.
While final maturity was extended from April 18 to June 2020.
In turn with this refinancing we entered into a new $400 million unsecured term loan which is priced at LIBOR plus 110 basis points and has the final maturity of April 2020 and its currently undrawn.
We anticipate we will draw on these in the latter half of the year with pricing used to address almost half of our 2015 debt maturities.
And at the same time enable us to continue to grow our encumbered pool and quality with the addition of four franchise assets including Shoppers World in Boston.
As we continue to operate the business with less risk our leverage metrics will continue to reduce over time but not at the detrimental value creation.
This quarter was the last quarter that debt to EBITDA will be negatively affected from the prior corresponding period due to the sale of our Brazilian investment.
This divestiture as explained in mid-2014 was the right long-term decision for the company allowing the reduction of our exposure to development foreign currency and non-controlling investment risk albeit at the shorter term expense of debt to EBITDA reduction.
Before I turn the call back to David I would like to address several modeling related events that occurred in the first quarter.
As mentioned on Februarys call the snowfall that hit New England at the beginning of the year impacted our first quarter recoveries.
We incurred $1 dollars of non-recoverable weather-related expenses in January and February alone nearly twice as much as we expected which closed the same store to deteriorate more than 25 basis points.
Separately temporary legislation in Puerto Rico has allowed us to opportunistically reduce our perspective tax rate on the island from 39% to 10% while restructuring the ownership of our assets into a REIT.
When we originally acquired our portfolio in the island shopping centers were not a property eligible for tax treatment under Puerto Rico tax rule.
Since the Puerto Rican rate structure was not about what the time and based on whats held in a vehicle which is subject to the highest marginal corporate tax rate of 39% for operational activity and capital transactions were subject to 29% taxes.
So with short-term we are latest initiative and the companys productive discussions with taxing authorities we were able to opportunistically restructure the ownership of our investment into a group.
Perspective tax rates with this new ownership structure will now be 10% for both operational and capital gains generating activities representing a tax benefit of 29% on all of our future operations on the island.
In order to accomplish this restructuring the company elected to pay an upfront tax priced upon a reduced tax rate of 12% on unsheltered tax or capital gains from its Puerto Rican assets.
The time will also allow our tax rate to increase which will generate future tax reductions.
For reporting purposes the tax payment of $20.2 million results in the creation of a tax asset of $16.8 million and non-recurring $3.4 million tax expense that has been added back to operating FFO.
The investment is anticipated to generate double-digit returns in the form of savings from lower tax rate achieved in this transaction and represents another example of long-term focus of this management team.
As a final note we have updated and expanded the disclosure of our development and redevelopment activity in our quarterly financial supplement.
We are breaking at all major redevelopments with over $10 million of total spend.
We are finding all minor redevelopments under $10 million of spend and delineating further between re-leasing which is included in same-store NOI and redevelopment which is excluded from same-store NOI.
The new content is streamlined in an effort to clarify modeling of our development pipeline and we hope that this expanded disclosure is helpful to the investment community.
We have additionally included a summary of our top 50 assets by ABR in an effort to showcase the size scale and quality of our largest assets and allow the investment community to more closely monitor the properties that makeup approximately 50% of our value.
I will now turn back the call to David for closing remarks.
Thanks Luke.
Further we have referenced the earnings headwinds from higher volume of asset sales we remain comfortable with reiterating our original 2015 earnings guidance of $1.20 to $1.25 per share of operating FFO.
What we do expect to dispose of more than the $250 million of original disposition guidance throughout the year we are not altering our earnings guidance range as the range contemplates increased sales and we continue to find other areas where we can beat our budget.
Operating fundamentals remains strong and we expect no change to our original same-store NOI or leased rate expectations.
Thank you for your time and I will now ask the operator to open the call up for questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Christy McElroy of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is Katie [indiscernible] on for Christy.
Just a couple of questions on the targeted asset sales do you plan on exiting any markets entirely or will it be more asset-specific? And then could you provide any additional color around the timing of expected dispositions in acquisitions throughout the year? Yes Katie this is Luke.
You are not going to be specific to markets I think its an asset by asset basis.
We are looking to reduce our exposure to assets that we deem as prime minus or non-prime so ones that may have lower growth but do seem good markets you will start to find that the assets we are selling will be larger in size and probably attract better cap rates.
So they are becoming more and more institutional.
Its just ones we dont see more medium to long-term.
We are able to drive the growth that we are after.
The next question comes from George Auerbach of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
I guess the $180 million write-down suggests a pretty large group of assets that you are going to sell in the near-term or looking to sell in the next 12 or 24 months can you quantify for us what the amount of assets are that you have either on the market today or expect to put on the market soon? And I guess when you ran through the math on the write-downs what was the assumed cap rate you were assuming on the sale of these assets? Yes sure George.
So right now we have  as we outlined we had closed on the companys share about $150 million at quarter end thats increased closer to $200 million and we are probably with whats on the contract closer to $250 million today.
Whats probably worth noting is the assets that we have impaired down? They will be  they will likely be sold over the medium-term not immediately.
So what I think this should be saying is something that we are going to exit in next six months but over the next 12 months to 24 months these are the assets that we are looking to exit.
From a cap rate point of view the cap rates of these assets are probably in the 7.5 to 8 cap range.
They are smaller assets.
They have a general household income and population that at 20% to 30% lower than our prime average so digested [ph] in weaker demographics and the NOI CAGR on these assets are less than 1%.
So assets that we feel we can write a capital add off and into much stronger better performing assets over the longer term.
The next question comes from Jeff Spector of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you.
My question is back on the strategy David you in your opening remarks specifically used the word quality dirt fortress power centers can you define that a little bit more I mean we continue to hear more about hybrid centers but again you are using very specific words on the strategy? I think there are two way to approach it Jeff.
And one of those is from a purely qualitative perspective where it is challenging to provide an exact definition there.
I think from the experience of the large team that we have here working on this some of that comes down to just having seen thousands of shopping centers around this company  country being familiar with markets and submarkets and saying this is the location that makes sense that has opportunity to improve over time its fantastic amount of feedback that we get from retailers in terms of their current performance or their future growth plans that we take into account through the dialogue with a large number of retailers on a regular basis.
So I think there is some of it where I cant offer you any sort of specific definition that would define exactly what we mean except for we know when we see it when we go through a very large number of assets.
The other side of it that I think we have made great strides over the past couple of years to quantify and to be able to offer a more clear definition is through our portfolio management efforts where we really have come up with three primary criteria on which we grade every asset in terms of what we think of the locational or dirt quality how the tenants perform today and the credit quality of those tenants and then the value creation opportunities that we see over time.
So those three buckets divided up into several sub-buckets where we do give each asset a specific numerical grade that they comes down to define our prime plus prime and prime minus in and non-prime buckets.
And so while we dont share them publicly we do have a detailed analysis for each asset that really defines for us what we think of is a prime plus center or a fortress center as we mentioned earlier.
And so on various property tours and other events we have showed off this analysis a little bit I think we will be talking about it more obviously something proprietary so not anything that we will be publishing.
But I think a tool thats been very helpful internally and looking at our portfolio and looking at external opportunities to provide at least a more quantifiable and numeric answer to your question of how we define quality in terms of either prime slots or fortress quality assets where we are  we have made great strides in moving the portfolio in that direction and we expect to make considerable progress as we look out over the next several years.
The next question is from Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi this is Grant Keeney on for Todd.
I was just wondering David there is an uptick in M&amp;A activity and I am just curious what your view was on M&amp;A in the space and what role DDR may play if any? We are obviously watching it very carefully.
We do a considerable amount of work on any portfolio public or private that contains shopping centers where we would have any interest in owning it.
We obviously have a great relationship with Blackstone where we have worked on a number of deals together that you have heard about because they happened and we worked on a very significant number of deals that you havent heard about because they havent happened or havent happened with our involvement.
And so I think we have got a good seat and a huge amount of research done internally to view those transactions and find the rare situation in a portfolio deal like with the ARCP portfolio last year where we thought it was a portfolio of size and a portfolio with extraordinary quality among the top assets but also one that because of the situation the seller found themselves in where we were able to execute at very attractive pricing.
And so in terms of checking both the boxes quality and pricing I think that was one that fit the bill for us as we have looked at other recent transactions we havent seen that its met both or even either of those criteria in some cases.
And so I think we have got the underwriting capacity we have got the information we have got the operating platform that would allow us and now we also have the balance sheet that would allow us to be a consolidator.
And so we are excited to have that opportunity.
However if something doesnt meet the quality that we need and if something doesnt offer an attractive enough financial return we are just not going to be there and so thats why you have seen us pretty quiet ever since the announcement of the ARCP transaction which was just about 12 months ago.
The next question is from Jeremy Metz of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Its Ross Nussbaum here with Jeremy.
Hi Ross.
David how much longer is the portfolio transformation actually going to last? I think we can answer it in two different ways.
From the perspective of the transformation that Dan and I originally started talking about probably 6 years ago or so I would say we are done.
So the scary part  the hardest part the dilutive part that the most challenging part of selling true non-institutional quality real estate is overwhelmingly finished at this point.
Massive progress has been made from an absolute peak of around 800 assets in early 2007 down to about 400 today.
And so I think from what we have defined historically as the transformation we would say we are overwhelmingly done with that effort.
I think the next steps of it going forward represents something much closer to portfolio management exercise of looking at the entirety of what we own and saying what represents something that has either lower growth or higher risk over time but generally still talking about very institutional quality assets and other in some cases even savvy buyers have seen opportunity and where we think our capital is best allocated elsewhere.
So we really look at this as the continued refinement of the portfolio.
I think a little bit of what you saw this quarter the last steps of the cleanup of the land bank but in terms of the operating portfolio really just the continued refinement to focus more clearly our capital and therefore also our teams time on the highest quality assets in the portfolio.
So I look at this as something that should be a constant process for this company to continue to improve portfolio quality and to continue to maximize value were reduced to come with some of the negatives associated with those sort of activities like considerable dilution or earnings headwinds.
This is one where we think we can improve the long-term growth rate and the long-term opportunity to create value in the portfolio by some of these sales as well as the reallocation of that capital of certain acquisition and redevelopment activities over time.
And I hope I get to tell you for a long period of time that we are continuing down that path even if it doesnt represent a massive transformation like the one that occurred over the past 5 to 6 years was but also one that significantly improved quality with the addition now of some earnings dilution.
The next question is from Haendel St.
Juste of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning out there.
Hello.
So David a question for you on the persistent discount that DDR still appears to trade at versus your peers and to your underlying asset value you have made significant progress over the past few years improving the quality of your balance sheet your portfolio the Puerto Rico assets continued to do well despite negative headlines for the island power center cap rates have compressed the CEO transition is over and the strategy of focusing on long-term high quality assets is the one we agree with despite perhaps some short-term dilution headwind.
So the question for you as you think about all of that what do you think perhaps investors arent appreciating or getting about your strategy and why that discount persists? Yes.
I think for us there is some level of frustration with the discount but the reality is our focus has to be creating value within the portfolio and the challenge for analysts and investors is recognizing that value and changing some of that discount.
But I think for us where we see the greatest misunderstanding is in the portfolio of quality its one of the reasons while a very simple addition to the front of our supplemental package we have added the top 50 assets.
We have always included a property table in the back that included all of the assets.
But I think for us we consistently feel like the quality of the portfolio is missed and so what can we do to make it easier for people to realize that.
Some of thats running around with groups like the ones you put together to do property tours in various cities and some of it is improving our disclosure so that is more clear what assets truly drive the performance of this company.
And so those top 50 assets that we break out earlier in the supplement I think are helpful in getting people to recognize the quality of the portfolio.
One thing we have always struggled with the portfolio upgrade over the past several years is that its much easier to show our portfolio improvement if you buy one trophy asset particularly in an investor-oriented sort of market its much harder to show portfolio improvement.
When you sell 400 low quality assets in much smaller less traveled to markets obviously no one is doing that property tour of what you dont own anymore even though from an internal perspective from a relationship with tenant perspective from where leasing managers are allocating time perspective the sale of the low quality assets actually does a lot more to improve portfolio quality than the addition of one or two trophy assets.
And so I think thats where we can continue to struggle to make sure we are telling the best story so that people understand the quality of the portfolio that exists today.
Obviously at the same time while we are executing on the next legs of making that store even more significantly true with transactional activity is driving even better portfolio as we look out a couple of years.
And the next question comes from Tammi Fique of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I am just curious there is a range of disposition volumes kind of embedded in the guidance range that you gave for the year I guess I am just curious what that is and at know what cap rate? Thank you.
Yes.
I mean when you think about that overall $0.05 range on 360 plus million shares you get to a spread in FFO that can be made up from a number of things.
Part of its to get us to the low end is accelerated.
Refinancing activity where you take advantage of low rates but you add additional capital and potentially sit on is the cash sooner rather than later.
Some of it is earlier sales volume some of it is greater sales volume some of it was a concern months ago that bankruptcy season could have been worst than what it was.
And so you eliminate some of those downside scenarios but then give yourself additional opportunity to either sell more or accelerate financing activity in other cases.
And so I cant say that there is a specific range that that we have outlined just related to the single variable of disposition volume and pricing but I would say we continue to be comfortable that our range is achievable even it being very meaningful ahead today of our disposition volume and so pricing is coming in a little bit better but the volume of dispositions and the timing early on the year is significantly ahead of our expectations.
And so today if we did end up $100 million to $200 million ahead on dispositions and thinking about the 2015 period alone having those much more heavily first half weighted on the  on the dispositions and second half weighted on the investments I think even with all that our overall guidance range is something we remain comfortable with based on the original way that we budgeted it in some of the cushion that we built in particularly on the low end so that we wouldnt be prevented from taking advantage of either a strong financing environment or a strong disposition environment.
The next question comes from Alex Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First thank you for the added 50 asset disclosure.
David I guess the two-part question here.
Its the same topic.
One are we done with the major write-offs or the write-offs? And then two on operating FFO to regular FFO does this mean now that DDR the operating FFO that you guys report is basically going to be the same as reported FFO? Yes I would say from a very comprehensive analysis that we have done over the past several months thinking about potential sales candidates the timing of those and then how that flows into our book value for those assets versus what we think is the market value at a time that we might sell it.
I do very much think that this is it in terms of any sort of significant impairment activity.
I think when we entered into this analysis we wanted to make sure that we could answer that question with confidence.
If the environment changes it certainly means that valuations can change but I think where we stand today we believe that we have included everything into this analysis and would not expect some of the regular quarterly noise that you have seen over the past several years.
And therefore we would also think that operating FFO should look extraordinarily close to NAREIT defined reported FFO.
There can always be certain truly one-time items.
And I will tell you certainly with some of the transitional events that we are going through here there is the potential that those sort of things could happen.
There is the potential that as we work our way through some of the simplifications some of the joint venture exits that we have gone through and continue to contemplate in other cases where there could be additional friction in the near-term but I would say the overwhelming majority of it should be gone in on a go forward basis.
I think operating FFO should look extremely close to NAREIT defined reported FFO which we have consistently given but obviously have included certain add-backs that we thought were more appropriate simply as we take the view on whats the right way for people to look at the company but I think on a go forward basis it becomes even simpler.
The next question comes from Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
I just want to go back to guidance for a second I know we just talked about a little bit in terms of the ins and outs and some of the puts and takes that were baked into the original range but if we think about sort of the discussion here dispositions being accelerated and also larger maybe than initially anticipated and first quarter same-store NOI negatively impacted by higher than expected snow removal some of the other operating metrics being maintained in terms of the outlook.
Just curious does that really leave sort of refinancing timing as the main sort of upside lever to keep you sort of comfortable with the range as opposed to maybe trending towards the lower end? I mean I would honestly say when we talk about refinancings role in this its probably one of the negatives in terms of our expectation and our execution so far to raise the $500 million 10-year bonds earlier than we expected.
So you have some savings from the redo of the credit facilities but I think the larger picture issues we are looking at in terms of whats the right financing strategy for this company? More often those are going to be slightly detrimental to FFO per share for 2015 than beneficial.
So I think thats another thing we generally think of is working against us slightly.
Certainly when you are thinking about the top of the range higher disposition volumes and earlier refinance volumes make that much more difficult to achieve.
That said we do think we budgeted appropriately and we do see very strong operations continuing I think the historically bad weather in the first quarter is absolutely a drag and was absolutely something that we would expect to be non-recurring and allow for better results through the rest of the year but when we take everything into account in terms of operations financing and transactional activity we remain comfortable with the range and think that that will continue to show one of the better growth rates for FFO per share within the sector even during the year where we improved the portfolio quality and improved the balance sheet.
The next question comes from Caitlin Burrows of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
As you dispose of assets in the U.S.
this makes your Puerto Rico exposure naturally increase I mean actually on your new disclosure page I see three of the top five centers by revenue are in Puerto Rico.
Could you just talk about whether this increased exposure concerns you regarding the retailer and shopper demand but also the local economy in politics on the island? Yes.
We certainly acknowledge that we do have larger investments I mean Puerto Rico than others and then some of our largest assets are down there.
They are also on their top 50 list and its top of that top 50 list because of just how good those assets are and just how well they have held up over the past few years.
Selling assets in the domestic U.S.
had certainly in the mainland U.S.
has certainly slightly potentially increased our percentage exposure to Puerto Rico.
On the other side when you look at the redevelopment activity and the acquisition activity from last year where we did increase U.S.
exposure I think overall the Puerto Rico figures have remained pretty consistent.
And so I think we are comfortable with our investment down there particularly because so much of it is contained in those top three assets that you note from the charts.
On the broader question are we concerned about the financial situation on the island? Absolutely its something where we have been actively following it.
We have been actively involved.
We are pleased that we could work through our tax restructure in a way that benefited the island it terms of their interest in current cash but our ability to significantly lower our long-term tax rates on the island.
And the toughest part now was the uncertainty not knowing exactly how the tax structure is going to be changed how that tracks is going to be implemented in what that exact tax rate is going to be.
There is nothing a market dislikes more than uncertainty if we would at least get the news of what the new structure and a rate was going to be.
Then I think everyone can plan accordingly but the period today of uncertainty is the toughest period.
So I think from a macro standpoint we have to acknowledge all of that.
From a micro standpoint we have got high-quality high credit U.S.
domicile tenants paying U.S.
dollar rent and doing very strong sales per square foot on the island.
And so I think when we think about it from a pure real estate or DDR portfolio perspective is the dollar rent from Wal-Mart and San Juan different from a dollar rent from Wal-Mart in Chicago or Dallas we really dont think so particularly when the occupancy cost because of the high sales volume is even better positioned on the island than it is here today.
And so we are very carefully monitoring the performance of our assets.
We are carefully monitoring some of the canary and coal mine sort of metrics like accounts receivable or 120 day more greater accounts receivable and not seen any great signs of concern when we look at how our assets are performing or our tenants are performing.
And so we continue to stand by that in terms of what matters most for DDRs very valuable investment on the island.
Yes Caitlin this is Paul.
I mean they are jumping ahead a few more specifics.
As David mentioned there is still strong metrics and opportunities on the island giving even with the uncertainty we are just completing large redevelopments at all.
So in Hondo two great projects finishing deals with people like Outback and Dave &amp; Busters and H&amp;M these are big deals that are still happening on the island that everybody is concerned about.
Still the consumer mentality we spend a lot of years transitioning from a local tenant base portfolio to a national base as David mentioned.
And we are down to 15% of our tenant base were rent through out the Island is local versus national which is significant and something we stay focused on.
I wonder since you brought Puerto Rico I want to give a shout out to our friends at Tobin [ph] Im sure most of you have seen that beautiful project they built at San Juan opening timing tough but we are quite confident its going to be big success over time and helpful to all of us that have space on the island.
The next question comes from Jim Sullivan at Cowen Group.
Please go ahead.
David your same-store NOI metric does not include major redevelopments obviously a contrast to many of your peers is there a targeted number or metric that you have either as a number of centers or as a percentage of the portfolio that you believe might clear the hurdle for a major redevelopment investment and can you clarify what that hurdle might be in terms of return on cost? Yes.
I think its a good question Jim in terms of the way one we think about the projects and two then how they will show up in reported results.
And while you havent had much time to go through it yes given the release of the new supplemental format last night I hope you do notice that we have taken some time to try to answer that question or part of that question with our disclosure where we break out major redevelopments versus minor redevelopments and then everything else just being sort of re-leasing CapEx.
And so while we cant give an exact rule in terms of above or below a certain dollar threshold I do think we internally characterize the assets and the projects into those couple of buckets so that we can present them in our development section in a way where people can understand here the handful of really big projects that anyone would call a redevelopment and here is the larger number of small projects in some cases are truly development some cases are more in that just larger scale re-leasing budget.
But overall for us when we were thinking about these projects it continues to be a very large number of $5 million to $15 million projects.
And in those cases I think we are absolutely focused on considerable value creation.
At this point I can tell you that means 9% to 11% average returns on the incremental capital invested into those projects and that we continue to achieve those returns that we have underwritten and in some cases are finding that we can do even better.
The largest scale redevelopments at times particularly the two large California projects can be lower returns in that partially because of the very low cap rate environment that those assets would trade in before they are located as well as the quality of the asset so we can accept something lower on those projects and still have extraordinary value creation in the larger projects like that to get a very significant focus from much larger group of people at this company and where we continue to move forward and continue to see successful execution that should lead to considerable and noticeable value creation on the large-scale projects and considerable although less noticeable value creation on that smaller scale redevelopment bucket of projects.
The next question comes from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
My question Dave is first on any plan board changes you might have and then kind of on the same lines if you could talk about any organizational changes that you have either already done it looks like some on the website are planning especially on the operating front the operating side of the business and in particular whats your plan to do with Pauls contract when you renew that I think it expires into this year if Im not mistaken.
David let me jump in and Rich will address me.
This is Paul.
Couple of things one I really love this business and as you guys heard today we have got a lot going on and its a lot of fun being here right now.
I am completely engaged and focused on continuing to lead the leasing and development teams as we get this portfolio in positioned for the long-term sustainable growth Luke and Dave have been talking about.
We also have a phenomenal team in place here especially at the leadership levels and its something that David Luke and I look at constantly what the makeup of the organization is.
And I am quite serving whatever the time is appropriate we will be prepared for an effective and seamless transition whenever that maybe.
Yes.
In terms of the other items particularly related to the board with our proxy released several weeks ago you will see several changes in the nominees.
On the addition side Alexander Otto will be joining our board.
So historically he has nominated two directors to represent him this year.
He is nominating one director and he is also personally standing for reelection and so an interesting dynamic we are not just two great representatives of our largest shareholder will be in the room but the shareholder himself will be in the boardroom with us.
And so I think positive in terms of his indication and interest in spending even more time on his investment here in addition to if you go through the details of proxy having invested additional capital into its investment in DDR past year.
So I think a positive addition there on someone that has a huge amount of skin in the game perfectly aligned with our other investors and someone with very very deep shopping center operational and development experience and broader real estate experience in the U.S.
and in Europe and retail experience.
Other changes there are two directors  two other directors not standing for reelection both of which who have served us very well over a period of time especially most recently the challenging time through the downturn through the company and several management changes.
And so I think those changes are clearly reflected in the proxy.
The board gets a little bit smaller.
I think it can work very well at that size but it also positions us to have an opening to add additional talent over time as we potentially locate the right additional members there but very pleased with the slate that we have in place and have nominated for this year.
In terms of organizational change I think this company has been in very good shape over the past several years.
I think there are certainly some refinements that we are making there.
I dont think there has been massive change to the leadership of the company outside of changes in titles for Luke and I but I think we are very early in what hopefully is a very long-term opportunity to run this company.
And so there is no rush to make immediate change.
I think there is an opportunity for us to evaluate what we think is best to manage this company for a long period of time.
And so you may see some changes but certainly not a massive part of the plan given the incredible quality of the team that we think we have in place today and that particularly relates to the exact comments that Paul always was making earlier about his leadership position as well as a very strong group of individuals under him not to create any alarm but also not to the call Pauls contract out none of us have contracts beyond the end of this year and it doesnt mean that all of us expect to be leaving.
We have obviously had a lot of other things to deal with and we will figure out the contractual nature of the team going forward but I think you have got a large talented and extremely committed and motivated team here thats excited for the opportunity that lies ahead of us.
The next question is from Chris Lucas of Capital One Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Just a follow-up on guidance questions I guess I am just trying to understand maybe what the thought process is at this point given that initial guidance was essentially what 250 acquisitions 250 dispositions? I havent heard anything more specific than sort of a front half disposition versus back half acquisition I guess a couple questions.
One is sort of David on the acquisition side what level of confidence do you have right now as it relates to reaching that level of acquisition volume is there anything under contract what volume of opportunities are you seeing out there on the stuff that you like.
And then I am just trying to understand what the spread likely will be when we get to the end of the year between the acquisitions and dispositions in terms of volume? Yes.
I think its reasonable to dig into some of those assumptions.
Obviously the transactions market that we are seeing today makes the disposition environment much stronger and therefore easier than the acquisitions environment just because its not easy it doesnt mean that I dont think that we have an exceptional team that can identify some unique acquisition opportunities and would be hopeful that over the next several months we are able to execute on about $100 million of those and then hopefully filling the rest in the second half of the year.
I am confident in this team finding enough acquisitions to get us to that $250 million of guidance.
And even more importantly doing so on deals that we view are attractive doing so on deals that we view are case study sort of transactions that we want to show the investment community exactly what we are doing and so its not going to be easy to find attractively priced deals.
You can obviously always spend more money if you are willing to compromise.
You are disciplined but I think even without doing that I do continue to feel confident and under Lukes leadership the transaction team can find $250 million of acquisitions.
Then hopefully we even have some of that to show you in the second quarter but certainly in the second half of the year the way we were thinking about it today probably most likely outcome is at least $100 million of net dispositions and potentially $200 million of net dispositions just based on achieving our $250 million of acquisition guidance but exceeding our $250 million of original disposition guidance.
I think other places within the budget where we see opportunity is recalling back to the fall are we are making these plans and there existed uncertainty regarding management.
I do think that we had to budget very carefully and so I think we continue to find that in some cases on the G&amp;A side there are opportunities.
We are basically assuming that we would have a CEO in addition to the team that we have in place as opposed to the board ending up providing the mandate to the existing team.
And so I think there is some efficiency there that can be picked up.
I think in other cases we had as we usually do carefully budgeted on the operating side where we did forecast a larger than prior year bankruptcy volume.
And so I think we continue to find opportunities on the operating side of the budget where our strong platform is executed well but also we budgeted appropriately.
And so there are little bits of upside that we also find there.
Some of thats exact end of year number plays out and the lease termination fees and other shorter term things but I think when we are truly thinking about the strength of the platform and the portfolio today continue to be pleased that operations are contributing to us continuing to be comfortable with the range despite an accelerated and higher than budgeted disposition volume.
Your next question comes from Tayo Okusanya.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just two questions for me.
First of all just would be Excel deal and again the implied cap rate on that transaction just curious if you think and as new implications for you or for any of the other REITs that have a meaningful amount of big box retail within their portfolio? Yes hi Tayo.
Its Luke.
I think it absolutely has implications for other REITs.
I think we can think its a low 6.
We did do a lot of underwriting on that portfolio.
We look at a lot of things with and in conjunction with Blackstone.
So I think the pricing that the market has seen is probably about right.
There are some very very good assets in that portfolio but we feel the quality across the portfolio probably isnt something that really speaks to DDR.
As David noted in his opening remarks continual focus on quality of dirt and location really means that any sort of portfolio deal really it does have to be unique and has to be very attractively priced.
So its still on that basis didnt quite bite the boxes.
The next question comes from Anthony Hau of SunTrust.
Please go ahead  Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Sorry if I missed this but in your last quarter prepared remarks you mentioned that you intend to access unsecured bond market later this year now that you have got close $400 million our term loans you would pay half the maturing debt are you guys still contemplating on accessing the bond market later this year and what is the timing of that? Yes.
This is Luke so the answer is yes we still are  we still have about $900 million of consolidated mortgages on secured facility is coming due.
So the $400 million as I noted funds almost half of it but we still feel that there is an opportunity for us to coming to the market in the second half of the year.
The benefit of having the undrawn term loan allows us to choose when we draw on that so that we can do a bond deal earlier in the second half if we choose and we see the rights are opportunistically priced for us.
But at the moment we do have an intention to come to the second half to help broaden some of the maturities.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to DDR management for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much for joining us and your continued support.
And we look forward to seeing you either at RECON or at NAREIT.
Thank you.
Bye.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DDR Corp.
Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After todays presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to [Meghan Dudwala] Senior Financial Analyst.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On todays call you will hear from President and CEO David Oakes; CFO and Treasurer Luke Petherbridge; and Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing &amp; Development Paul Freddo.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand that these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and the documents that we filed with the SEC including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 as amended.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on todays call including FFO and operating FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
Last we will be observing a one-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
At this time it is my pleasure to introduce our President and Chief Executive Officer David Oakes.
Thank you Meghan.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Today I would like to discuss five items.
First the progress weve made internally over the past five months second the results from our annual shareholder meeting.
And finally the three pillars that this management team has outlined and is chiefly focused on the progress on all fronts.
The internal progress of this team given the mandate in February has far exceeded our expectations.
We have retained our top talent transformed the culture and put new controls and processes in place to focus our operations team on the quality and the quantity that are already having an impact on the bottom line.
This progress was evident in this quarter as we produced strong same-store NOI growth and leasing metrics all while we continue to encourage vacancy to upgrade the caliber of our tenancy.
I am proud of our organization thus far and I am confident that our operational efforts and our produce-first message-later mentality will translate into outperformance over time.
And the team takes the recent underperformance where very crucially and it [indiscernible] motivated even further.
Next important changes were made at the board level following our shareholder meeting in May.
Weve welcomed our largest shareholder Alexander Otto onto the board further aligning our board with shareholders as well as adding in very experienced retail real estate minds to the boardroom.
We were pleased to receive very strong support in our proxy vote for the shareholder alignment compensation program and all of our other directors.
There are three pillars that our team has outlined over the course of the year that I would like to expand on next.
The first is our refining focus on portfolio quality that places greater emphasis on the quality of the dirt which is evidenced by the 4.4% increase in rent per square foot since this quarter last year.
As we continue to sell assets that do not meet our quality thresholds.
While weve made tremendous strides in upgrading portfolio quality through the years we have raised our standards and see a short runway for completing the final legs of the transformation.
Ill highlight the progress we have made such as they are wholly-owned prime plus and prime portfolio now comprise approximately 75% of pro-rata gross asset value of our company.
These centers carry a small shop rent per square foot of $27.50 17% above the portfolio average.
And they grew same-store NOI at 3.25% for the quarter above the overall 3% reported and indicative of the superior quality.
Going forward we intend to continue to reduce our asset count through the next few years between 250 to 300 assets including the sale of a large number of assets held in joint ventures with low economic ownership.
Given where we believe we are in the valuation cycle we have taken a very honest view of asset quality and well continue to also sell wholly-owned non-prime and prime-minus shopping centers into this market.
For example this quarter we disposed of a 99% leased grocery-anchored asset in Georgia that was located outside of the top 50 MSAs and had a future NOI growth rate of less than 2% as well as an asset in non-core market in New England where we recently executed a junior anchor deal taking the asset to 100% leased with future growth of less than 1%.
These two institutional quality prime-minus assets were indicative of our desire to exit low-growth centers and mediocre submarkets at attractive pricing in the mid-6% to low-7% cap rate range allowing us to redeploy proceeds in the higher growth assets in the top 50 MSAs.
That all said our shareholders should be confident that we do not intend to reduce the balance sheet significantly or sacrifice earnings growth as acquisition opportunities and thoughtful investment activity should continue to mitigate potential dilution.
The second pillar is capital allocation which we believe is the most significant measure of group performance over time.
Our cultural shift and increased controls translated in net effective rents that increased 8% year-over-year this quarter and G&amp;A expenses excluding separation charges have decreased 8% since last year.
G&amp;A is trending at only 4.6% of revenues down 9 basis points year-over-year and near the sector lows.
Our discipline was also evident in our acquisition activity as we purchased two high-quality power centers in Orlando and Houston and returns in excess of our cost to capital which Luke will discuss in further detail.
This organization is extremely focused on the returns associated with leasing redevelopment and transactional activity and we are pleased to see the results start flowing through to the bottom line in such a short amount of time.
The final pillar is our lower risk profile which includes not only a fortress balance sheet but also a fortress portfolio prime power centers that will maintain steady cash flow on all cycles.
As Luke will elaborate on in more detail we made important stride in the second quarter as we added four high quality shopping centers with approximate value of $700 million to our unencumbered pool by refinancing the maturing debt with our new unsecured term loan.
While we view debt-to-EBITDA as an important measure of risk that will come down over the next few quarters we also believe that its equally important components of risk include debt duration size of the unencumbered pool and the asset and credit quality of our properties all of which have improved dramatically.
We continue to expect this company will absolutely operate within an appropriate level of risks to maximize shareholder return over a long period of time.
I will now turn the call over to Paul.
Thank you David.
The overall leasing environment and resultant operating fundamentals remained positive in the second quarter as evidenced by exceptional deal volume and continued strength in leasing spreads.
We executed 369 new deals and renewals for 2.9 million square feet an outstanding quarter for our portfolio that is 95.5% leased.
Id also like to highlight the starting rents for the new deals and renewals at $20.35 per square foot and $15.04 per square foot respectively both great numbers and both indicative of the positive leasing environment and the quality of our portfolio.
For the quarter we achieved a positive pro-rata new deal spread of 25.4% and a positive pro-rata renewal spread of 7.2% resulting in a combined pro-rata spread of 10.2%.
I would like to remind everyone that renewal spread based upon the starting rent in the renewal period measured against the last rent in the current term.
What is not included in the calculation of this spread is any future contractual increase built into the renewal.
In this quarter alone we had 91 renewals with bumps averaging 3% per year over the starting rent obviously leading to additional growth.
And this focus on annual rent steps is one of the most significant recent changes we have made when negotiating and analyzing deals.
Our overall leased rate at 100% ownership remained flat quarter-over-quarter at 95.5% an increase by 20 basis points year-over-year.
The nature of the flat leased rate quarter-over-quarter was due to a couple of factors.
First we sold low-growth assets with leased rates in the high-90s to 100% and acquired high quality assets with vacancy obviously offering significant growth opportunities through lease-up and/or redevelopment.
The second contributing factor was the signing of new leases on spaces that were already included in the leased rate.
So despite significant leasing volume and strong spreads it nets too little impact on the leased rate.
Third we continue to encourage vacancies from our weaker tenants such as Kmart in an effort to increase the credit quality and merchandize mix of our centers.
As David mentioned and as we have talked about on many occasions we are focused on improving the caliber of our tenancy as we also look to improve the quality of the overall portfolio.
One great example of this strategy which also highlights the quality of our portfolio and the supply and demand environment is a deal we recently concluded with also within one of our Whole Foods-anchored Pine shopping centers in Columbus Ohio.
The lease for the current tenant expires during the second quarter of 2017 with no renewal options.
ALTA agreed to sign a lease a full 2.5 years before they will open in the fourth quarter of 2017 to control the space far from their typical schedule and had a 66% markup in rent all indicative of retailers desire for quality space and the steps they will take to secure it.
The signing of the ALTA lease results in no change to our leased rate but a significant change to tenant mix and net value creation for this asset.
Our pro rata shop lease rate for the entire portfolio for space less than 10 000 square feet is now 87.9% up 40 basis points year-over-year.
This is in line with our peer average when reported on this comparable basis and an excess of the 86% lease rate we disclosed in our supplement for space less than 5 000 square feet.
I would also like to spend some time this quarter breaking down some of the metrics we report to highlight the differences between the four tiers of our portfolio.
As David also mentioned our wholly-owned prime plus and prime asset comprise roughly 75% of pro rata gross asset value and it is within this pool that we are seeing our strongest results.
In terms of leasing spreads for the quarter the new deal spread for the prime plus and prime assets was 28.8% while the new deal spread for prime minus and non-prime assets was 6.7%.
For renewals the spread for prime plus and prime was 7.6% 140 basis points higher than those for prime minus and non-prime.
Another metric worth noting is the year one starting rent for new deals.
The starting rent for the wholly-owned prime plus and prime assets was $20.95 while the starting rent in the prime minus and non-prime pool was $15.83 a 32% spread between the two pools.
To update you on Puerto Rico I would first like to point out that 90% of our Puerto Rico portfolio value is comprised of prime plus or prime assets.
60% of the portfolio value was in the top three prime plus malls and 70% of the base rent is derived from U.S.
based credit-worthy tenants all of which emphasize the quality of our cash flow on the island.
Despite macro headlines regarding the sales tax and debt issues we are seeing reported sales across our entire portfolio that are relatively flat on a rolling 12-month basis with four of our top five assets actually reporting small sales gain.
Additionally our blended spreads on the island for the quarter were a positive 5.5%.
While [indiscernible] as the low-double-digit blended spreads we are reporting for the U.S.
they remain positive.
Furthermore and one of the most telling statistics an area we have focused on for the past several years is accounts receivable.
We have and well continue to work on the mix and credit quality of our tenants.
And these efforts have been rewarded with an accounts receivable number which has remained flat year-over-year and is near a historical low for this portfolio.
From a deal perspective we are still seeing new retailers who view the island as an attractive location as they look for areas to expand.
We recently signed a deal with Dave &amp; Busters for their first location on the island at Plaza del Sol with an opening date of early 2017.
We are also finalizing a deal with H&amp;M for one of their first two locations on the Island also at Plaza del Sol with an opening in late 2016.
These are significant additions to our top asset on the Island and represent strong statements regarding retailers views of the strength of retail on the Island going forward.
In the back half of this year we will recapture a few boxes on the Island including two Kmarts at their natural lease expirations.
This will have an immediate impact on occupancy but will have minimal impact on our NOI stream as rents for these spaces are significantly below market and ultimately will result an attractive opportunities for rent growth and merchandising improvements.
Finally I would like to share with you the success we are having with our national accounts group which was reorganized in March with strong senior leadership.
The national accounts team was assembled to leverage our operating platform and continue to foster quality relationships with our top 10 and other notable retailers with whom we want to grow.
Our top 50 tenants comprised roughly 55% of total annual base rent and it is critical that we have a continuous open line of communication with these retailers.
When you have 70 to 100 plus leases with any single tenant there are undoubtedly issues that will arise and our retail partners know these issues will be resolved in a timely manner with the involvement of the DDR account REIT.
During the month of July and August alone our national accounts team will conduct portfolio reviews with 20 of our top 50 tenants.
While we meet and have regular portfolio reviews with all of our top tenants the daily communication between our accounts team and the retailers is even more critical.
We continue to realize the value in having a strong national accounts program as we negotiate renewal packages with tenants utilize high-level relationships to finalize or amend deals and quickly obtain insightful and reliable retailer feedback on performance on our existing centers as well as for potential acquisitions.
Our relationships with the retail community are something we have emphasized for a long time with DDR.
I have great confidence that the team we have in place will continue to excel and remain best-in-class in this extremely important component of our business.
I would now turn the call over to Luke.
Thanks Mike.
Operating FFO was $111.4 million or $0.31 per share for the second quarter which is a 10% increase over the prior year.
Including non-operating items FFO for the quarter was $105.4 million or $0.29 per share.
Non-operating items primarily consisted transaction costs.
As David mentioned we are pleased to report another quarter of robust transactional activity which included the acquisition of two prime power centers that we believe exemplified this management teams disciplined focus on acquiring high-quality dirt at attractive pricing.
International Drive Value Center in Orlando Florida which we acquired at the end of April is located in one of the nations strongest retail submarket.
And its situated within 1 mile of two highly productive eight plus retail centers.
Orlando Premium Outlets and The Mall at Millenia which both produce sales in excess of $1 200 a square foot.
The centers TJX Ross Dress for Less Bed Bath &amp; Beyond are amongst each respective chains top performing stores.
Willowbrook Plaza which we acquired in June is also directly adjacent to our highly productive Willowbrook Mall in Houston and offers significant NOI and occupancy run rate given its 87% leased rate.
We view the opportunity to invest capital in Houston as attractive from a pricing standpoint combined with our relatively low exposure to the submarket.
And we are confident the quality of this real estate and the submarket will perform well throughout the cycle even with any short-term headwinds.
Both assets were acquired in excess of a six cap and in place NOI and provide considerable and visible growth over the coming years.
And we are excited to have these efforts in our platform.
The quarter further advanced our portfolio management activity as we ended June with $340 million of assets sold or under contract which will exceed our originally stated disposition guidance for the year of $250 million.
Of the $60 million of closed asset sales in the second quarter $56 million was attributed to seven non-prime and prime minus operating assets with the remaining $4 million consisting of three land parcels.
The weighted average cap rate for the quarter was in the low seven cap range.
We had $119 million of additional assets under contract for sale at quarter end comprising 18 operating assets and three land parcels.
Five of the assets sold or currently under contract were part of the group that was impaired in the first quarter.
And we are actively marketing three of the remaining 20 operating assets and the six remaining land parcels.
10 of the operating assets under contract for sale are currently held in joint venture with Blackstone at pricing in mid-7 cap range for non-prime assets.
The sale of these assets will not have an immediate impact on the balance of our $300 million of preferred equity issued to the joint venture although we do expect a modest reduction obviously from 2016 as additional assets are sold and we continue to improve the ventures concentration to the highest quality assets.
We remain focused on selling down the remaining non-prime and selective prime minus assets in our portfolio until we feel our asset base is sufficient to perform in all markets throughout the cycle.
Although we ended the second quarter as a net acquirer the significant volume of assets currently under contract to sale [indiscernible] expectation that will end the year as net sale.
While we still do intend to make the $250 million of acquisition guidance announced in January.
While we continue to underwrite new opportunities in a disciplined manner we plan to invest disposition proceeds to pay down debt and further strengthen our balance sheet until further acquisition opportunities as a source which will lead to the accelerating our reduction in our debt-to-EBITDA in the second half and into 2016.
Turning to the second quarter capital markets activity I would like to draw our attention to select re-financings that have a significant positive impact on cash flow but potentially a negative impact to GAAP earnings.
During the quarter we partially drew down a $400 million unsecured term loan to prepay the $256 million mortgage secured by four assets which mature in September 2015.
As outlined in the prior quarter supplemental this loan had a combined cash rate of 6.4% whereas the GAAP interest rate was much lower at 2.75%.
We plan to again to drawdown the remaining portion of the term loans beginning of August to prepay an unencumbered two additional mortgages which encumbered three properties and have combined loan balance of $175 million which has a blended cash interest rate of 6.2% and a GAAP rate of 3%.
Assuming a 4.5% long-term interest rate on unsecured debt issuance the refinancing eliminates $8 million of annual interest expense on a cash basis but will add an additional $7 million of annual interest expense on a GAAP basis.
For further color please refer to page 39 of our latest presentation on the website.
For additional color on one and three quarter convertible notes maturing in November this year which are expensed at a GAAP rate of 5.25% our intention is to settle the principal of the notes with the cash proceeds from the long-term unsecured bond offering later in the year and any premium attributed to a conversion in shares by giving notice to the bondholders on October 6.
Using yesterdays closing price of $16.22 we expect to issue a little over 2 million shares on November 20 which are not currently in our diluted share count with no proceeds to DDR.
Id like to take a moment to elaborate on a comment made by David about how we intend to operate our business with the appropriate level of risk to maximize long-term shareholder return.
What I specifically want to highlight is that managing and lowering our risk profile doesnt necessarily come at the detriment of return to our equity holders.
A good example of this is the continuing the material enhancement in size and quality of our unencumbered asset pool which during the last quarter we increased by approximately $700 million from the refinancing activity I just outlined.
During the quarter we added some of our largest and highest quality prime-plus assets such as Shoppers World in Boston Woodfield Village Green in Chicago and Fairfax Towne Center in Washington D.C.
that now have greater operational flexibility allowing us to more easily enhance each assets value over time.
As of today our unencumbered pool is internally valued at over $7 billion which will be more than two times larger than what it was post our top financing in 2009.
Not only is their pool larger but the quality is better with the average asset size being 300 000 square feet which is 80% larger than in 2009.
Whats worth noting at this significant pool is something that differentiate DDRs balance sheet from our peers and provides us the ability to raise capital against this collaterals well alternative funding options present challenges.
With that Ill hand the call back to David for closing remarks.
Thanks Luke.
I would like to conclude by reiterating our original 2015 full year earnings guidance of $1.20 to $1.25 per share of operating FFO.
Operating fundamentals remain very strong.
Our portfolio transformation remains on target and we continue to find avenues to mitigate the potential dilution from this years increased asset sales.
Thank you for your time.
Ill now ask the operator to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Good morning.
Hi Craig.
David I was wondering what's the trigger to get you to go - it seems a little further on the portfolio transformation and maybe just a little more color on the assets you were selling like you had said low economic ownership? Yes.
I think youve seen us make extraordinary progress selling 500-plus assets in the past six or seven years.
So I do think theres been a focus on portfolio improvements for quite a number of years.
I think where its become more nuance recently as weve sold the truly non-institutional stuff weve sold the truly non-prime product.
And now it comes down to a portfolio management exercise of selling assets that are pretty good but simply dont need our current criteria for growth or future total return expectation.
And so I think as we have eliminated the worst assets and as we have seen a private market for shopping centers this continues to be very strong.
Everything is lined up to allow us to continue the sales process but selling higher quality inventory now than what we were selling a few years ago and therefore getting the much more attractive pricing associated with that.
And so I think were just being more thoughtful as we take this next step in selling institutional quality assets but one that we think the current private market values too highly and where we think we can redeploy those proceeds and do much more attractive higher growth assets and larger MSAs as we continue to be active on both acquisition and disposition front.
And Craig this is Luke.
With regards to the low economic ownership thats just a reference to the joint venture assets that are being sold.
So year-to-date we sold five assets out of the Blackstone joint venture which when we originally acquired that portfolio we highlighted that there would be some pruning in conjunction with discussions with Blackstone.
Of the 18 assets we have under contract today 10 of those are in that Blackstone joint venture where our economic ownership is only 5%.
And our next question will come from Christy McElroy of Citi.
Hi good morning guys.
David just your comment about this focus on development returns and looking at sort of the overall construction pipeline in a different bucket between developments major redevelopments and minor redevelopments.
Can you break out by bucket the average projected yields on those existing projects? And sort of thinking ahead to the future pipeline what sort of yields are you underwriting to when you're thinking about the feasibility of ground-up projects versus redevelopment? Yes Christy.
This is Paul.
Starting with the redevelopment John so on the minor redevelopments and typically with all of our lease-up CapEx our hurdle is going to be 10%.
We would expect nothing less than that in terms of yield.
On the major developments slightly as some of these are our little defensive at times but also bigger projects and typically with assets that were trading over 5% 5.5% cap so something in the high single digits its 7.5% to 9% on some of the major redevelopments some still exceeding that 10% hurdle by the way.
And on the ground-up as we said in the past with the legacy land some of the stuff were developing right now all in youre looking at mid-single yields with an incremental yield somewhere in the 7.5% 7% to 8% range.
But we would expect mostly with the major redevelopments and minor redevelopments to be in that high singles and north of 10% with the minors.
The focus will still be spread.
We will continue to look for development opportunities major redevelopments its going to be more.
Youre going to see that are very exciting and weve got in the early stages that will eventually make it to our reporting and well talk more about them in great markets and great opportunities to create value.
Minor redevelopments will continue to be a big focus also and I would estimate that were going to be in that $100 million to $150 million run rate range on the entire redevelopment program.
And the next question will come from Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hi it's Grant Keeney on for Todd.
Good morning.
Regarding G&amp;A you mentioned in recent quarters you had some opportunities and it sounds like you've made some progress but just wanted to get some additional color on the timing and scale and just another follow up it looks like 2Q you had a separation charge so as just see what a good run rate was for the rest of the year? Yes.
I think what youve seen in the first two quarters is we have been able to operate even more efficiently.
And so I think youve seen most of that show up in results obviously a little bit of one-time charges in terms of some separation agreements this quarter.
But I think at this point youre seeing most of those efficiencies show up in the run rate.
And so I think historically we guided to 5% of total revenues as a reasonable G&amp;A range and certainly a G&amp;A range lower than our peers for many years.
And today I think that number can be a little bit lower than that.
And so I think youve seen now the first full quarter of that show up and we think that can be recurring going forward but wouldnt model in anything else too significant on that front.
And next we have a question from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Thank you.
So going back to dispositions David maybe you could wrap it up for us easily digestible package you guys just saw some JVs possibly and make some wholly-owned assets but when you look at kind of total pool of which call consider non-prime or what's realistically you're going to sell over the next couple of years what does that - on your share basis what does that look like? From our share basis.
So when we look at it I think this year were probably going to achieve between $400 million to $500 million of sales which majority we have under contract today.
I think then as we look forward as David pointed out I think the non-prime bucket has reduced dramatically just probably 20 to 25 assets in there which are smaller assets and a couple of $100 million there.
But then its really looking at just ongoing portfolio pruning and rotating capital out of assets that we deemed that we can reallocate our equity into high growth assets.
So I think over time we could continue to achieve.
I dont think were going to have dispositions that are the size of this year.
I think this year is a larger year but I think going forward well continue to look at rotating capital.
But we will be mindful on any sort of dilution that comes from that.
I think we can mitigate a lot of that with one of the assets were selling a better quality and were getting better cap rates on that which youve seen.
This year its sort of 7.25 level.
I think the stuff we are looking at going forward maybe even tied on that.
But I think its opportunistic of where we deem we can pull capital out of low growth assets or assets that we dont believe has the long-term return profile that were looking for.
Yes.
Were thinking about two sides of it Ki Bin.
The first one is just capital recycling which is a constant process but redeploying capital out of those prime minus assets with lower growth rates into higher growth assets where we think were taking no real change in current cash flow by swapping that but were certainly positioning ourselves better for long-term growth.
The second part of it is net buyer or net seller outside of that recycling activity.
You saw some significant net buyer a few years ago when we saw pricing was relatively low for power centers and we had an acceptable cost of capital.
You saw as a net buyer.
We significantly added to the portfolio and improved the portfolio through those years.
Today we look at the private market and you see pricing is relatively high.
And so our natural response to that is to increase the volume of sales and thats exactly what weve seen for this year.
And the next question comes from Jason White of Green Street Advisors.
Hey guys just want to know I know I really just cant pinpoint this but in a more general sense can you kind of walk through the Blackstone assets that you have? How many are left out of the original I think it was 70? And what you would relate to keep longer term? What that means? Maybe for fees and then getting the prep payback and just kind of walk through that whole deal in general? Yes.
Sure Jason.
Thats right.
There was 70 asset acquisitions.
Five assets are bank sold.
Theres another 10 under contract that wed expect to be sold in the coming weeks.
With regards to long-term ownership we do have a ROPO on the top 10 so weve clearly identified the 10 that we aim of the long-term ownership.
Clearly we dont have the right just to buy them.
It is something that Blackstone controls.
And their exit is something that they control.
So I think in signs that over the coming years there is an opportunity that we feel were best  were well positioned to get control and ownership of the assets that we deem that would be long-term prime and prime plus assets but for our portfolio.
What that means for the fees and the prep I dont think theres any near-term impact for that.
I think the prep will start to be paid down in the course of 2016.
But not a dramatic right.
But I do think that prep will start to come down.
Obviously the fees will come down as well as we sell assets but I dont think this is a near-term catalyst where the ownership would change from Blackstone to DDR.
And the next question comes from Haendel St.
Juste of Morgan Stanley.
Hey good morning guys.
So a quick two part on capital allocation understanding your debt reduction goals and [your recent] funding requirements.
What is the stock buyback today separating your capital allocation thought with the stock down on 16 well below many of them are basically your own.
I would also love to know your thought on the high coupon debt maturity upcoming during 2016 and 2017 rates and I guess 7% in 2016 and 6% in 2017.
What's your current thought of these upcoming maturities and how are you weighing the opportunity to perhaps refinance that versus debt pre-pays? Yes.
Capital allocation as mentioned in the opening remarks and I think is talked about regularly as a very significant focus for us  you look back several years ago when I think we did have a more attractive cost of capital and the private market wasnt reflecting the value and quality of power centers.
We were an issuer of equity to buy shopping centers.
So I think today when we look at the considerable disconnect between the value the private market value of our assets and the public market valuation of our stock certainly we see a disconnect there.
And absolutely I thought about it and considered share repurchase where we stand today we do have other attractive uses of capital.
But share repurchase certainly is something that we talked about and thought about and will continue to do but if not active at all at this point.
But certainly its something that is on the radar screen for us with constant view that the balance sheet improvement is very important to us and so not something that we would consider at the expense of our risk profile but something that we do think is certainly possible.
I think weve taken important steps in the first part of recognizing that arbitrage between public and private markets by being a considerable net seller of the assets recently and what were forecasting for the second half of that year  second half of the year and would certainly consider all uses of those proceeds as we continue through the next several quarters on the maturities Ill pass it to Luke.
Yes Haendel.
With regards to the high coupon paper in 2016 and 2017 we obviously still have financing to come this year which is the converts which is $350 million 2016 there is clearly is the [non-prime] which provides a nice earnings tow into a portion of that year.
Repaying that early I think obviously we'd need to economically make the decision or not I dont think it makes sense right now today.
And then 2017 I just want to make one point on that which is something I made in my prepared remarks is that although it is 7.5% in that year we do have some dip the difference between the cash and the GAAP rate for that year.
There is a differential where the cash interest rate for that year is 6.5% but the GAAP rate is 5.8%.
So although we do anticipate a significant cash saving on the interest expense the GAAP savings will not be as much although it wont be quite the impact that were seeing that are highlighted earlier but its probably just worth noting.
There is a slight difference there.
We do think that there is an opportunity over the coming years to do better than the rates that are coming and we think that provides an FFO tailwind for the company.
And the next question will come from Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank.
Good morning everyone.
Just Luke going back to your comments I think I heard you say that you have about $400 million to $500 million of disposal you think for this year.
And I think it's year-to-date $300 million plus including those that's under contract so that seems like it's a little bit higher than we returned the last quarter.
And I'm just trying to understand from a guidance perspective and I know the focus is on  not necessary on earnings per se but with the guidance unchanged and dispose stepping up a little bit and presumably financing costs maybe up a little bit from earlier in the year on the unsecured that's coming down the road.
Just curious what are other levers that you've been talking about as being offset? Are those being pulled? What's actually being done today to kind of be able to get you to that midpoint? Yes.
I think and David probably have some comments clearly there are some operational efficiencies that we are starting to see flow through.
With regards to dispositions increasing I think that comes back to the point David and I have been making is that this is the market that we see as an opportunity to sell not just only the non-prime stuff but some of the prime minor stuff that we think has lower returns.
So I think theres an opportunity for us particularly in the second half of the year.
And thats really where youre not going to have the full-year impact there but we are able to sell some assets at pricing that we see is very very attractive for the long-term return of this company.
And we do believe that we are able to reinvest that capital probably not completely this year but over time were going to be able to reinvest that capital to generate longer term returns.
Weve just seen that the pricing for assets highlighted by the two that David mentioned in his prepared remarks.
Were seeing pricing thats far exceeding what we deem as the long-term value of some of those assets.
Yes.
I think we guided reasonably operations could come in strong and thats why we create a range so I think we  it contemplates some of the risks that could happen on the downside it contemplates higher volume of sales and earlier refinancing activity.
And so where we stand today we remain very comfortable with guidance despite the fact that we are absolutely on track to be net seller this year.
And the next question comes from Jeremy Metz of UBS.
Hey good morning guys.
First just on the prior question from Haendel do you actually have a buyback program in place today? And then as we think about the dispositions you talked about targeting $400 million $450 million this year.
So I guess after those how much more do you have left to sell if you are to kind of get to the ideal go-forward portfolio and then how should we be thinking about the earnings growth profile for DDR here as we look into 2016 and 2017? So Jeremy its Luke.
We dont have a buyback program in place.
With regard to dispositions as weve highlighted we will be a continual disposer of assets the size and velocity of that will depend on the market.
We do have some non-prime assets although that is dramatically going to reduce this year.
Its really going into the prime minus assets which are just assets that we believe may not have the growth profile that we are looking for from our equity.
So we are able to rotate those out opportunistically and reinvest that capital whether internally or into new acquisitions thatll be an opportunity that well review at current mark or the market timing.
So I do believe our goal is to build the portfolio that will withstand all cycles of the market or all market cycles and long-term produce the return.
I think the one thing that I probably would like to note is that the vast number of assets so if we think of the number of asset were going to sell the majority of those will actually  well have a lower economic interest because they are joint venture assets that will be disposed off.
So our economic interest in those assets vary from 5% to 20%.
So the impact to our earnings is somewhat reduced.
And our next question comes from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Hi yes good morning.
Just a quick one for Luke.
Luke the page 39 that you highlighted in the presentation trying to understand the passthrough and FFO impact of the debt refinancing.
Could you just kind of walk us through that real quick again why kind of like the big difference with regards to the rate cash-wise and rate GAAP-wise on these pieces of debt? Yes.
Absolutely Tayo.
Theres a real reason why there was a different rate to GAAP is when you acquire assets you mark the debt to market.
So when we acquired using our hallmark portfolio that was debt that was actually put in place when it was the Australian joint venture.
So it was done with long-term debt.
When we acquired it it was dramatically a shorter-term debt.
So you mark the debt to market.
I think that yes from a GAAP point of view or a cash point of view we dont have a dramatic amount of those.
I think one thing that works the other way is obviously the converts which have lower cash to GAAP rate.
But there are some pieces of debt when we actually acquired and assumed a debt that are going to have the differences.
This is an abnormal year.
This really is looking at home art is their largest one which we have and that was the Blackstone acquisition.
As I mentioned there is a small amount in 2017 but really its just the mark-to-market of the debt when we acquired the asset? And next we have Sameer Kanal of Evercore ISI.
Hi guys David just going back to G&amp;A and I was just curious as you reduce G&amp;A just through a reduction of  is it mainly through a reduction in headcount or are you doing something else differently? Are there any other changes that you're doing internally more from let's say a sort of an expense savings standpoint? Not really any sort of noticeable head count reduction.
Obviously Dan transitioned out earlier this year and we didnt replace him with an outsider and so I think you have some simple straightforward stuff like that.
When we look beyond that its just being timing ways where we can operate more efficiently with the very high quality team that we have in place today.
And so I think youve seen some of those benefits show up over the last quarter or two.
And the next question comes from Michael Mueller of JPMorgan.
Yes hi just going back to asset sales for a second.
About how long do you think it'll take to go from 400 properties now down to that 250 to 300 properties because I know you talked about the selling the JV stuff and I think that's around 60 properties give or take but you're going to be offsetting with some new acquisitions.
So what sort of timeframe you are looking at? Yes Michael.
This is Luke.
I think thats over a couple of years.
I think the vast  as I mentioned the vast majority of asset in number that would be sold will be out of joint ventures.
So we dont have total control over the exit of those.
So we do think that the joint venture number of assets will start to shrink but the platform is probably going to stay comparable size.
So probably over the next couple of years I think youll see our asset count start to go down pretty quickly.
And I think we want to be careful that in a way that we were addressing this because we are talking about reinvesting a majority of that capital in the high quality larger assets versus fractional ownership of a smaller asset.
And so this isnt a way of us trying to bring dilution in the upcoming years.
We think the transaction market is strong enough and our team is executing well enough where this is really portfolio strategy.
This is not reasons why we dont think FFO will grow in excess of peers over the next several years.
And so it really is two separate discussions.
I think from the portfolio standpoint you will see a greater focus on a smaller number of larger higher quality faster growth assets but were not doing that at the expense of earnings even in the short term.
And our next question will come from Ryan Peterson of Sandler O'Neill.
Yes thanks guys.
A quick question from me you've done a good job with the supplemental and simplifying things so that is easier and clear for the Street to be able to model us.
I was just wondering if you have any other initiatives or other areas that you expect to continue to provide more clarity to make it easier for the Street to understand guidance and what the out years are going to look like? Yes I mean we have that renewed focus on transparency.
I think for a number of years we tried to be at the forefront of improving our disclosure both through supplemental as well as through our regularly updated investor update to try to make both company and the industry as well understood as possible.
So we can continue to make strides.
Absolutely open to your feedback.
When people have asked us for stuff that they thought would be more useful weve changed our disclosure a number of times.
I think weve added some additional development disclosure this year.
Weve added some of the additional disclosures.
Luke was talking about earlier just regarding the differences between the true cash benefit of some of our refinancing versus the GAAP earnings detriment.
And so were trying to be very thoughtful with those materials to make sure that were as transparent as possible and people understand the strength of this business and portfolio but clearly are open to additional ideas of what would be helpful because obviously we do want to make sure people have the best understanding possible of the strength of this company our portfolio our balance sheet and our expected growth rate going forward.
And then next we have Chris Lucas from Capital One Security.
Yes good morning everyone.
I guess Luke the question about the unsecured markets.
We've seen companies that have issued earlier this year that spreads that have been wider than expected and some that have pulled the yields and go on to term loan market I guess what I'm wondering is what is your expectation as it relates to the spread on the deal that you're looking at for later in the year and do you feel like the market will be perspective given what you're hearing from your consults at this point.
Yes.
Chris so what were hearing from our fixed income investors so I think its worth noting that we do spend a lot of time with our fixed income investors.
I do believe that wed be receptive to a daily hour offering.
I think there is a difference between DDR and some of the other issuer that came or gone to the private market the main one being size and liquidity.
I think its something thats very important to bond holders at the moment.
I do think a good example is DDR being able to issue $500 million earlier this year.
That was in a time of uncertainty for the management team or were in management transition.
And we still had a significant overwhelming amount of support from the fixed income community.
So I do believe right now that we feel that we could make an issue  we could get an issuance done at most channels on the curve.
With regard to where our spread is it clearly is wider than what it was earlier this year.
I think overall funding costs have gone up.
I do feel  were seeing one of our peers in the market today.
I do feel we would be pricing something around that $170 after 10 years sort of $175 to $180 area.
If we issued today I think we could probably do better than that if we were to start to move towards an issuance later this year.
So I think we keep our eye on the market very closely.
I think were looking at what channel we actually want to do.
We look at obviously our maturity profile.
And then also its just going to be the amount of capital we actually need to pay back some of the debt which were going to refinance and then also some of the  with asset sales as well.
And our next question is from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
Hi good morning guys.
I'm curious you mentioned that you had reorganized the National Accounts team.
And I'm wondering what was the team like before and I guess what makes it better under the new reorganized team? Yes Rich.
Good morning Paul.
Before we had it structured mostly as multiple and in a quite a few accounts reps scattered that we kept track of and did a good job of that.
I dont want to make it sound like this is brand new to us.
But it wasnt as coordinated an effort as I would have liked.
So the biggest difference is really restructuring under a Senior VP who reports directly to me and hes got a fairly senior staff that works exclusively on some of these major accounts in terms of some of things like I mentioned package renewals and the like.
Its something obviously we see with all of the mall players.
And I just thought we could do a much better job better than we have.
I mean its producing phenomenal results.
It doesnt mean the deal makers out there arent still communicating and coordinating with their retail partners because they are.
And they are the deal makers.
But when you have so many large accounts and I mentioned the number 70 to 100 leases with any single tenant weve got quite a number of those and it needs that higher level higher coordination something that all of us here at the senior level can get involved in.
And its just going to produce much greater results and thats the significant change.
And the next question is a follow-up from Ki Bin Kim.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick ones the CapEx per square foot you show on page 12 is that TI plus landlord works plus recent commissions one of your whats in that bucket? And our second question is just on your same-store base rents why  I mean maybe you can talk a little bit about the 1.9% versus last quarter's 2.4% and how that should  if there is any investment pulling that down this quarter and how that should trend throughout the year? Thanks.
Yeah.
On the CapEx Ki Bin that is all inclusive.
We do have our landlord work tenant improvements or tenant allowance and leasing commissions.
So its all inclusive which we think is the way everybody should be disclosing their net effect of rent.
We feel great about where that number has gone where the net effective rent has gone.
Your quarter-over-quarter starting rent was up.
CapEx was down approximately 14% on a per-square-foot basis resulting in net effects of rent that were up 16%.
Thats a big deal and thats going to pay dividends going forward.
In terms of that base rent youre looking at in the same-store account.
There are a couple issues.
Some of the bankruptcies were in there.
Puerto Rico clearly had a little bit of an impact.
But what youre often not seeing are the new deals that assign debt at much higher rents that will eventually drive that number up.
End of Q&amp;A And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
The conference is now concluded.
We thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the DDR Corp.
Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After todays presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Meghan Finneran Senior Financial Analyst.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On todays call you will hear from President and CEO David Oakes; CFO and Treasurer Luke Petherbridge; and Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing &amp; Development Paul Freddo.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and the documents that we filed with the SEC including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 as amended.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on todays call including FFO and operating FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available on our website at www.ddr.com.
Last we will be observing a one-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
At this time it is my pleasure to introduce our President and Chief Executive Officer David Oakes.
Thank you Meghan.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Id like to discuss four topics this morning including the advances that we have made internally and the three pillars that I discussed on the prior call which include progress on portfolio upgrade and the focus on quality of dirt and laser focus capital allocation and lower risk profile.
Internal progress continues to exceed share price performance; the divergence that we believe will narrow over time.
Our most significant internal strategy this quarter was the completion of three weeks of portfolio reviews and reinstating this process allowed fresh eyes to analyze the portfolio for new opportunities including expansion redevelopment disposition and exploring the highest and best use for our real estate.
Im very pleased with the results of the reviews.
We identified over a dozen new expansion opportunities in several new redevelopment projects including opportunities to add multi-family self-storage and additional ancillary uses at a number of assets.
As I mentioned last quarter there are three pillars this management team is focused on owning the best locations for the future retail; prudent capital allocation; and executing with lower risk profile.
I would like to elaborate on the focus on high quality dirt and the last legs of our portfolio transformation in detail as we believe this is misunderstood in the market.
DDR does not need to sell assets.
Were not nearly in need [ph] of any transformation; there is no disposition program.
We have sold nearly 500 assets in third session and last remaining assets that we have identified for sale are of a much higher quality and are being marketed opportunistically as a result of high market pricing.
These are largely what we describe as prime minus assets characterized by growth for lower prime portfolio or risk in out years that is underappreciated today.
Given current pricing for these assets continues to be in the 6% to low 7% cap rate range we have taken a sense that this is a prudent time in the cycle to sell more than we are buying.
Surprisingly were selling the bottom tier of our portfolio with the pricing range that is comparable to the implied cap rate at which DDR is traded over the course of the past few months.
Regardless this decision should not be misinterpreted as downplaying the quality of our portfolio; it is more simply stance different than Peters [ph] that selling in the historically high pricing is prudent.
We have a rigorous asset quality prism that all assets are run through and we will not sacrifice our standards to align the short term bull market strategies.
While the decision of sale when prices are high appears to be out of favor in the current market we are confident that the judicious capital allocation decision will prepare DDR to outperform in all cycles going forward.
The second pillar on which we are focused is capital allocation which was evident this quarter in higher net effective rents and prudent spending on minor redevelopments on.
Our operations team is increasingly focused on return on capital which resulted in the second highest average in net effective rents since third session.
And we believe that improved deal economics create more value for our shareholders than quarterly volume statistics.
The third pillar on which we continue to execute is operating with a lower risk profile which was reflected in our decision to sell good assets with suboptimal credit or growth profiles and augment our portfolio to include more power centers situated on the highest quality dirt.
While many market participants define it as simply by quantitative leverage metrics we feel the quality of our EBITDA is at least as important as its ratio to debt.
And we will continue to upgrade the income stream to both -- to perform in both bull and bear markets.
With that said we intend to be a net seller of assets in 2015 and potentially 2016 and therefore should benefit from debt to EBITDA reduction in the coming quarters.
Additionally subsequent to quarter-end we issued $400 million of 10-year unsecured notes for the 4.25% coupon.
The proceeds from this issuance will be used to repay $350 million of convertible notes in November.
Our decision to commence the offering prior to the maturity of convertible notes despite the market volatility and cost of carry is directly representative of our focus on reduced risk when it comes to liquidity duration and highly of capital raises.
To conclude our team comes to work every day focused on building a fortress portfolio of power centers allocating capital prudently to provide the best risk adjusted returns for our shareholders and by operating at the level of risk to allow for outsized growth in the strong market and sustainable cash flow and refinancing capacity in a weaker one.
We appreciate the support of both our board and those long-term investors who recognize this as a long cycle business and have supported the Company.
As I mentioned on last quarters call this team does not take underperformance lightly.
However we have conviction that steps undertaken today will result in increased net asset value position over the long term.
I will now turn the call over to Paul.
Thanks David.
The overall leasing environment and operating fundamentals remained positive in the third quarter.
We continued to experience strong retailer demand and deal volume as we executed 382 million new deals and renewals for 2.9 million square feet a significant volume for a portfolio that is 95.5% leased.
Id like to specifically highlight the starting rents for new deals and renewals at $19.70 per square foot and $15.75 per square foot respectively both great numbers and indicative of the leasing environment and the consistently improving quality of our portfolio.
Furthermore net effective rent per square foot for new deals at $15.78 represents the strongest performance in years and cost as percentage of net effective rent remained in line with our historical average.
Same-store NOI was also strong in the third quarter as the 3.2% increase is in line with our top quarters in the past several years.
Leading same-store growth were highly occupied prime plus assets that continued to generate significant mark-to-market opportunities.
For example the top contributing assets this quarter were Midtown Miami Shoppers World in Boston and Woodfield Village in Chicago three of our highest quality assets.
All three benefitted from strong new lease growth and remerchandising efforts as we added the likes of Nordstrom Rack Cost Plus and Trader Joes respectively.
Turning to spreads: For the quarter we achieved a positive pro rata new deal spread of 12.3% and a positive pro rata renewal spread of 7.1% resulting in a combined pro rata spread of 7.9%.
While the new deal spread is lower than the recent past it is important to note that we had a smaller number of box deals in our account [ph] pool than in the last few quarters and the larger box deals naturally have the most significant impact on spreads.
Rent trends as evidenced by the strong starting rents and net effective rents remain very positive and we expect new deals spreads to remain comfortably in the double-digit for the foreseeable future.
It is also worth noting that 81% of all new deals and 42% of renewals and options executed this quarter contained rent bumps within their initial terms leading to additional growth beyond the reported spreads which of course are based on first year cash rental with a last year cash rent and do not reflect this additional growth from contractual increases.
This focus on rent steps is one of the most significant recent changes we have made as we negotiate and analyze deals and one that we continued to leverage during the quarter in which we experienced a tenant retention rate of over 90% versus a typical retention rate of 85%.
Our overall leased rate remained flat quarter-over-quarter at 95.5%.
The flat leased rate was due to a few fasters.
First we continued to sell low growth assets with leased rates in the high 90s to 100% and in the third quarter sold 2.3 million square feet with an average leased rate of 96.5%.
The second contributing factor was the signing of new leases on spaces that were already included in the leased rate.
Despite significant leasing volume resulting in improved tenant mix and credit quality these deals resulted in little impact on leased rate.
Third we continued to encourage vacancy from weaker tenants such as Kmart in an effort to further increase the quality and mix of our centers.
As we have talked about on many occasions this focus on improving the caliber of our tenancy will result in mixed results in a leased rate on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
With that said we continue to make progress in the small shop category at the lease rate for space under 5 000 square feet increased 50 basis points sequentially driven primarily by strong net absorption.
Id like to take a few moments to update you on the progress we are making in two of our larger redevelopment projects The Pike Outlets in Long Beach California; and Sycamore Crossing in Cincinnati Ohio.
The Pike Outlets located in Long Beach is a 363 000 square-foot outlet center serving several communities in Los Angeles County including Huntington Beach and Newport Beach.
After a thorough analysis we found a significant void in the surrounding trade area for a mix outlet tenants and made a decision to proceed with the format in 2013.
Following a tremendous effort from our leasing team we held a grand reopening on October 2nd and tenants including Nike Factory H&amp;M F21 Red Converse Factory and Gap Factory all opened strong and are performing well.
Furthermore earlier this year Restoration Hardware outlet nearly doubled its size store cycle and expansion; and they continue to perform extremely well.
In addition to the recent openings we now have signed leases with Columbia Sportswear Cotton-On Hot Topic and Starbucks.
The Pike Outlets is now 88% leased and we have strong retailer interest for the remaining space.
As a further demonstration of support for this redevelopment Cinemark underwent a multimillion dollar renovation to bring their latest and greatest technology seating and customer experience to the project.
All major redevelopment work will be complete in the fourth quarter and we expect the project to be stabilized in the third quarter of 2016.
The second project is Sycamore Crossing in Cincinnati Ohio.
Located directly across from Kenwood Mall and a dense retail corridor with average household incomes of $89 000 Sycamore Crossing is a 390 000 square-foot prime plus shopping centre also undergoing a major redevelopment.
Sycamore was initially acquired in a JV with Blackstone in 2013 and we acquired Blackstones interest in 2014.
Given strong retailer demand and the centers location in the heart of the number one shopping area in Ohio we saw the opportunity to invest and significantly drive NOI and create value.
At acquisition the center included an undersized and non-prototyped Dicks Sporting Goods and oversight [ph] Staples naked leases for Barnes &amp; Noble and Old Navy and significant vacancy.
Other existing tenants included the Fresh Market Macys Furniture and Ulta.
We have allowed the Barnes and Old Navy leases to expire and right-sized and relocated Staples to make way for a new state of the art two-level Dicks Sporting Goods and a new Five Below.
We have also backfilled Barnes &amp; Noble with T.J.Maxx and are in active negotiations with other best in class retailers for an additional 50 000 square feet.
Staples opened in a new space at the beginning of October and Dicks Sporting Goods will be opening along with Five Below during the fourth quarter of 2016.
When complete this will be the dominant power center in the strongest submarket in the MSA with a grocery component and further opportunity for NOI growth and value enhancement.
To provide an update on Puerto Rico which comprises approximately 10% of pro rata based rental revenue I would like to reiterate a few important points that I mentioned on our call last quarter.
90% of our Puerto Rico portfolio value was comprised of prime plus or prime assets; 60% of the portfolio value is in the top three prime plus malls; and 70% of the base rent is arrived from U.S.
based creditworthy tenants all of which emphasize the quality of our portfolio and cash flows on the island.
While the macro environment continues to be traded poorly in the media year-to-date we have experienced 360 000 square feet of total leasing activity on the island and continue to see reported sales across our entire portfolio that are relatively flat on a rolling 12-month basis with four of our top five assets actually reporting small sales gains.
From a deal perspective we are still seeing new retailers who view the island as an attractive location as they look to expand.
In addition to the Dave &amp; Busters deal we executed during the second quarter for their first location on the island at Plaza del sol.
In the third quarter we signed a lease with H&amp;M for one of their first two locations on the island at Plaza del sol with an opening date in late 2016.
These are significant additions to our top asset on the island and represent strong statements regarding retailers views of the long-term strength of retail in Puerto Rico.
As noted previously we recently recaptured two Kmart fosters [ph] in Puerto Rico at natural lease expiration.
Kmart departures did have an immediate impact on our occupancy but will have minimal impact on our NOI stream as rents for these spaces are significantly below market and ultimately will result in attractive opportunities for rent growth and merchandising improvement.
In closing Id also like to turn your attention to a new disclosure in our quarterly supplement indicating which of our properties including the grocery component.
As you know we have consistently referred to as a preeminent owner of high quality power centers which while we agree with the characterization fails to account for the everyday traffic that more than two-thirds of our properties benefit from with tenants offering groceries such as Walmart the worlds largest grocer and others include Sprouts Kroger Publix and Whole Foods.
As you know from private market pricing top power centers with a grocery component and top MSAs are consistently trading in the mid-5% cap rate range.
And we thought its appropriate to highlight our significant exposure to this property type.
Ill now turn the call over to Luke.
Operating FFO was $113.5 million or $0.31 a share for the third quarter which was 6.9% increase over the prior year.
Including non-operating items FFO for the quarter was $113.4 million also $0.31 per share.
Non-operating items consisted of transaction costs.
Id like to begin today by providing more color on our quarterly and year-to-date transactional activities and the final stages of our portfolio repositioning.
During the third quarter we closed on the sale of 19 institutional quality operating assets for a 143 million at our share bringing full year share of dispositions to 358 million with an additional 268 million on the contracts that we expect to close by year-end.
As David mentioned we have exceeded our original disposition guidance because the current environment exhibits extremely attractive pricing for our product term.
[Ph] Id like to emphasize that our dispositions today are not comparable to the assets we sold shortly during or after the recession.
Our dispositions in 2009 sold for weighted average cap rate of about 9%.
These assets were primarily located in tertiary markets had weak merchandising mix and the mediocre quality of the real estate kept occupancy level challenged following retailer bankruptcies.
In contrast our year-to-date dispositions are sold for weighted average cap rate in the low to -- or mid to low 7 and have an average of a 125 000 square feet and 97% leased.
These assets are stabilized institutional quality centers but typically have lower growth profile than we underwrite in our prime plus assets.
To illustrate this further we sold to an institutional buyer a Walmart neighborhood anchored power center located in North Charleston South Carolina at the end of the third quarter for a mid-6 cap rate nearly a 150 basis points inside our internal valuation.
The center has a decent merchandising mix solid credit from national tenants and some future growth but minimal opportunities for value creation and is situated in a site [ph] that may post risk of selling vacancies in the next downturn.
We are also on the contract to sell a prime minus fresh market anchored stabilized power center in Chattanooga Tennessee for a sub-6 cap rate.
The centers other tenancies include Hobby Lobby Shoe Carnival and Best Buy all of which are generating good sale volumes.
Both of these examples highlight a focus on opportunistically rotating our capital into other opportunities which will deliver the higher longer term returns to our shareholders.
This is something we will continue to do if this level of pricing persists.
To-date we have additionally sold 14 assets from our third joint venture with Blackstone totaling 213 million at a price approximately $0.20 higher than our acquisition just 12 months ago.
The sale of these assets contemplated prior to the acquisition has not had any impact on the 300 million of preferred equity issued to the joint venture.
But we do expect the balance to reduce ratably as we continue to sell the lower quality assets in the joint venture.
We ended the third quarter with 626 million of assets sold or under contract and we remain confident that we will meet our original acquisition guidance of 250 million at the end of the year and end the year as a net seller.
I want to spend a few minutes now looking into 2016 our residual non-prime portfolio and our expectation for further portfolio enhancements.
We currently have 30 wholly-owned non-prime assets representing approximately 4% of our value and estimate by the end of the year 16 there will be less than a dozen assets representing 2% of the value.
We want to ensure people understand that due to the significant reduction of this non-prime tool any further dispositions will be considered with extreme price sensitivity.
If the transaction markets continue to exhibit the depths and strengths that we have seen in 2015 we will continue to opportunistically take advantage of them in 2016 and be a net seller although most likely to a smaller magnitude than 15.
Conversely if pricing softens we are absolutely comfortable with our portfolio with its tenancy and locations that we can generate appropriate returns throughout the next cycle and are confident that the considerable net proceeds writes issue [ph] can be effectively reinvested in the future.
With regard to our joint venture platform we continue to review with our institutional capital partners the pruning of their portfolios over time.
However due to our minority economic interest which varies from 5% to 20% the economic impact is minimal.
Turning to capital markets activity: After observing the volatility and the unsecured debt marketing in late Q3 we are extremely pleased to issue 400 million of 10-year unsecured notes at 4.25% coupon earlier this year early this month and take advantage of a sub-2% U.S.
treasury.
The issuance is nearly five times oversubscribed allowing us to price inside expectations and roughly in line with our secondary.
The proceeds will be used to fund the November redemption of 350 million of convertible notes and the remainder will use to pay down our line of credit.
With the anticipated near-term asset sales we feel that we have sufficient liquidity that well be able to fund all upcoming debt maturities and are not required to raise any further capital for at least 12 months and possibly longer.
As David mentioned one of the three pillars by which this new management team is operating is an increased on the appropriate risk profile.
While we continue to underwrite new acquisition and redevelopment opportunities we anticipate that asset disposition proceeds as well as EBITDA growth will allow us to lower debt to EBITDA by one turn in the next two years.
However we continue to acknowledge that risk reduction goes beyond net debt to EBITDA ration.
And prudent capital allocation has allowed us to capitalize on favorable market trends to better position our portfolio for long-term value creation.
With that Ill hand the call back to David.
Thanks Luke.
I would like to conclude by updating you on our 2015 full-year operating FFO per share guidance.
We are now forecasting a range of $1.21 to $1.24 per share representing a $0.1 tightening on both the ends and a mid point that continues to alight with our original 2015 guidance and equates to 6% growth over 2014.
We will release 2016 earnings guidance in January as the normal practice.
And we feel confident that the strength of our operating fundamentals and our ability to source new acquisitions reduce expenses and find new key strings [ph] will mitigate earnings dilution from a considerable opportunistic asset sale program that is currently forecasted in the market and will continue to allow us to grow both in the short term and in the long term.
Thanks for your time.
And Ill now ask the operator to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital.
David you talked briefly about the portfolio reviews and that youve identified more than dozen new expansions and some development opportunities including some densification projects I guess adding other uses you mentioned like multifamily of self-storage.
Can you just provide some color on these future opportunities; what the scope might look like over time? And then in instances where there are other uses involved whether DDR would look to bring in a partner or whether the Company would operate some of those other properties? Sure.
Im happy to give you a little color.
I think until we advance this further Im not going to give extraordinary detail.
But certainly were pleased with the progress we made going through the entire portfolio and finding opportunities where given the focus on quality locations at some points we found that there was more that we could do on a site.
I think weve given clear guidance that near-term we think the credible profitable redevelopment spend is in the $100 million a year range.
And so some of this goes to backfilling that pipeline as you look into the out years and some of it hopefully goes to expanding that type line as we look at more opportunities to expand or reconfigure existing centers or just add density as we are finding a few opportunities where thats possible and we think very profitable.
We will continue with I think very prudent stance on the fact that we think we are extremely good at operating and developing power centers and at allocating capital but not necessarily experts in other property types since we think its reasonable to assume that if we did find opportunities for other property types on our assets on our locations that we would look to either monetize that or look to bring in a partner if we did pursue that where we would not be -- or highly unlikely that we would be doing that on our own at this point.
And our next question comes from Michael Bilerman of Citi.
You guys spoke a little bit about sort of the Blackstone joint venture in terms of the asset sales that have occurred since youve closed the deal last year.
Can you sort of just talk a little bit more broadly? It looks though debt has been paid down; your preferred hasnt been touched Im curious why Blackstone is not paying off the highest part of the cap structure the most expensive.
And so can you talk a little bit about A why thats occurring; and then whats happening with that piece of paper? I think it was 300 million to start and Ive seen theyve gone up to 3 000.
I dont how much of thats accounting versus actually a crude interest on your note.
And how you are going to deal with this? Its an 8.5% piece of paper 6% of your FFO clearly thats going to create some headwinds once it does become redeemed both from the debt to EBITDA perspective but also from an earnings perspective.
So maybe you can just talk about it overall.
Thanks.
Sure Michael.
This is Luke.
So with regards to the asset sales that have happened to-date the original deal was that the first tranche that we knew and we allocated to sell that there was no initial pay down of the preferred.
So the preferred was sized in the capital structure so that first tranche of asset would be sold and in proceeds paid out to common which is DDR and Blackstone.
Going forward we would expect that to change as we continue to prune that portfolio down; wed expect to see that preferred reduce.
However I would like to note that we are in a partnership with Blackstone and sales do need partner consent.
So I think that was one thing that Id like to make sure people are aware of that we work with our partner.
We have identified a group of assets that we will likely sell in next year and that is probably likely to pay down the preferred.
With regards to the preferred going from 300 million to 310 million the actual preferred is priced at 8.5%; youre right but 6% is payable in cash 2% is payable in time.
So the preferred slowly increases a small amount every year that is consistent with prior Blackstone deals that DDR has done.
And we feel very comfortable about slowly letting that increase.
And then the final point of your question is is really regard to the conversion of the order reinvestment of the 8.5.
I think probably the best way to point that out is the historical first two transactions we both had preferred equity investments.
We have successfully been able to reinvest that capital into a takeout of Blackstone.
I dont want to preempt anything happening in the near term with them.
However we do have a very-very good relation with Blackstone.
We do like a significant portion of the value of that portfolio and would see that the 310 million which is probably going to reduce over the next 12 months would be reallocated into common equity or wholly-owned assets in the medium-term.
And next we have a question from Jeremy Metz with UBS.
Hey good morning guys.
This is actually Ross Nussbaum here with Jeremy.
If I think about the industry for a second do you think that industry occupancy has peaked? I mean I look at this year I see two big grocer bankruptcies on the coast.
I look ahead to the next year and think about the future of the Sears and Kmart and a couple electronic boxes for example.
Do you think that were in an environment where we actually could see both your occupancy as well as industry occupancy to lift a little here over the next 12 to 24 months? No I really dont Ross.
I would look at full occupancy for us and most of our peers as being closer to about 96.5%.
Obviously we talk about some of the deals were making where we are taking tenants out and replacing which is not going to be reflected in an increase in leased rate and may even short-term if there is a lag in expiration or termination and lease signing result in a little bit of a decline in the leased rate but all for the good of a long-term growth and driving the value of the asset.
Even with some of the bank -- potential bankruptcies and bankruptcies you mentioned in our portfolio for example we had just one A&amp;P and were not going to have any problem backfilling that should that be rejected it has not yet been rejected.
And we might see a quick slip because its a larger box but well fill it quickly.
Im still looking at a full occupancy rate of again somewhere north of 96.
Its lumpy quarter to quarter as I claimed in the script based on some of our actions.
But the little bit of whether theres an electronics and again we dont really see that as a real potential for near term bankruptcy its been pretty good in our sector quite frankly in terms of bankruptcy.
I dont think were going to see this thing slip.
Again youll see some lumpiness but I dont think youll see many of us slip beyond our current levels.
The broader question from an overly macro standpoint is a very tough one.
For us when you look at the 4 billion or so square feet in the total database that the national brokers will talk about I understand your sensitivity on that question but I think exactly as Paul was saying when you look at the higher quality portfolios like ours we certainly dont see any of that risk even if on a true macro basis you might be able to make a bit of case that you got one.
And our next question is from Paul Morgan of Canaccord.
Just maybe a little bit more on the dispositions as you think about 2016 if I look at a couple of the deals that you sold in the last quarter or in some large markets Tampa D.C.
I mean how should we think about those sales? And kind of were used to thinking of your dispositions as being not necessarily tertiary in a secondary market; I mean could we see more in major markets as we see them maybe being kind of flat access going forward and is that changing kind of what is your longer term pipeline.
Paul its Luke.
And I think thats absolutely what you expect to see.
I think we have exited from definitely as a percentage of value out of predominantly nearly all of our tertiary markets and you will start seeing it.
So what we would consider prime minus assets whether theyre in Tampa or St.
Louis markets that we like but we just dont see that it has the growth profile but we feel we can reinvent our capital into our prime plus portfolio.
I guess a really good way to think about that is between 2008 and 2013 we sold over 300 assets for about $2.9 billion so a little less than $10 million per asset.
Right now weve got about 200 -- at the end of the third quarter we had about 270 million under contract with 10 assets.
So the size of the assets that we are selling is 2 to 3 times larger than what weve done historically which goes to show not only the quality but the size of the asset where were rotating out of and then obviously then the reinvestment side we are obviously buying bigger more dominant power centers like Willowbrook we acquired earlier this year.
And the next question is from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
I am going to assume there is a continued aggressive transaction market and therefore you will continue to make dispositions.
And I sort of see three buckets as use of proceeds buying prime assets; investing in your redevelopment pipeline; and paying down debt.
I just wonder which of those three buckets will see the most activity.
Craig this is Luke.
So I think we do -- as David highlighted we do have an active redevelopment pipeline.
So we have about 100 million to 150 million so that is something that we can allocate.
So I think then really the residual bucket is going to be particularly in the near term between debt and new acquisitions I think very short term is paying down debt.
But we do still feel that we can find attractive -- and attractively priced opportunities to acquire new centers.
We do have confidence that we can get to our 250 million for 2015 we are at a 160 million at the end of the third quarter.
And I guess our two acquisitions for the year highlight our platform and our ability to find assets where we feel we can either re-tenant and create value from mark-to-market in rent or opportunities where we find redevelopment opportunities in new acquisitions.
So I do think -- I guess we do have a redevelopment bucket lined up for the next 12 months and then its going to be somewhat short-term debt but we do feel that we are going to be out reinvest that over the next 12 months.
And the next question is from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
This is George [ph] on for Tayo.
I understand the use of proceeds and the desire to a de-lever from asset sales.
But I dont know if I caught this earlier but how would you view also potentially repurchasing stock given kind of where the stock is trading relative NAV and kind of where it has traded and at a certain does it become attractive to actually do a share repurchase? Yes we are certainly open to it.
Weve discussed it at the management level; at the board level we have discussed it even with shareholders at time.
So far we believe weve taken the prudent first step which is raising capital through selling assets in a hotly priced private market.
We have done a bit of that.
There is considerably more under contract and we expect to be on the way.
Over the next quarter or so and if the market stays as hot likely over the next year or so and naturally I think those proceeds to go to the pay down of debt but absolutely believe that that creates the capacity if we should continue to trade at a discounted private market value and extreme discount to peers that capital could certainly be used for share repurchase.
So nothing formal to announce today but certainly something thats been discussed in advanced.
And the next question is from Alex Goldfarb with Sandler ONeill.
David one of the things I think you guys have been vocal about delivering this year is laying out guidance range and then achieving that despite whats going on on the capital markets front.
From your opening remarks I just want to clarify and confirm while you are not giving 16 guidance the intention is as you guys ramp up continue to do dispositions the focus is still going to be on growing earnings not growing FFO for FFO sake like historic way back when but the point is that you guys will seek to deliver sort of a steady state earnings growth that investors can bank on while also doing the normal course dispositions.
Is that the correct way that we should look for the 2016 guidance when it comes out? Yes obviously the formal press release with guidance and normal investor and analysts follow-up that we do will be in early January.
But we do think today that despite the fact that our overwhelming focus is net asset value creation over time; and we do believe that asset sales in todays environment are key to that that we should still be able to deliver earnings growth as we look out over the next year or next several years.
So I dont think thats growth for the sake of growth I think thats a testament to the strength of both the existing portfolio strength of our ability to source some level of aftermarket opportunistically priced acquisitions and certainly mitigate it somewhat by what we think is a considerable opportunity to sell more assets than we buy in the current market.
And our next question is from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Just a couple of cleanup questions.
Could you just describe the rent per square foot for the assets that you sold this quarter and the cap rates if I missed it? And second in terms of Puerto Rico is there actually a healthy bid to sell those assets if you wanted to and at what point do you consider that as part of the overall pool of assets that you eventually want to sell from the portfolio? Hi Ki Bin; its Luke.
So Ill handle the first part that on transactions and hand over to Paul for Puerto Rico.
With regards to the cap rate it was a low to mid-7 for the quarter for Q3.
However looking forward I think we are probably going to be in that range to sing contract potentially even a little bidder.
With regards to the ABR per square foot it was probably a little lower in the main -- I think with low double digits compared to where we currently as our portfolio tracks which is significantly above that more in the 14.
So I think some of that 4% year-on-year has been driven not only by just the prior quarter but the year-to-date sales and the lower ABI that we are selling.
Yes Ki Bin.
This is Paul.
On Puerto Rico we are long-term holders and owners.
And I think part of whats missed as people talk about Puerto Rico is the event were having right now right; its down a significant down in the cycle but weve seen it before.
I think the couple of deals I mentioned Dave &amp; Busters H&amp;M and there are others that we havent signed yet so cant announce.
Retailers look at it the same way we do.
This is a long-term strong retail market.
And while we all are focused on the downs of today that is not how we are looking at and certainly not how the retail community is looking at it.
And next we have a question from Haendel St.
Juste of Morgan Stanley.
So another question on dispositions for you David here obviously you guys have been very active in recent years.
And I understand that youve changed the quality of what you are selling and are selling more opportunistically at this point.
But I want to get some insight from you on the pulse on 10 [ph] of the transactions markets for what you are selling.
Have you noticed any change in demand or pricing in recent months given tightening of the CMBS market transferring the late summer early fall? And then also how does demand the number of bidders and pricing say compared to maybe three six months ago? Thanks.
Yes.
Haendel its Luke.
So with regards to what were seeing I dont think were seeing any dramatic change.
And I do acknowledge that overall borrowing rates and cost of capital has increased from three to six months ago.
We sold out just from our recent issuance although not at the widest point in the market but clearly debt costs have increased.
I think one thing thats helped us is that the assets that we are selling are institutional so institutional buyers are considerably more cash invested.
So the amount of leverage they made is a lot less.
I do think we will start to see maybe some impact on that lower quality portfolios that have been traded where it is heavily driven by where CMBS pricing is or CMBS debt marks are.
With regards to number of bidders we continue to see and we do have a few things particularly with partners that are -- having looked at from our buyers we continue to see a significant number of bidders underpaid due-diligence and bid on the assets.
We continue to see more and more of the real estate advisory firms seeking to grow their platform and footprint and they have raised considerable amounts of capital over the last 12 to 18 months.
And we continue see them focus on buying what wed aim institutional quality but just not prime plus assets from DDR.
And the next question will come from Mike Mueller of JP Morgan.
Just quick clarification and then the question but when you are talking about being a net seller in terms of dispositions is that a comment just on your portfolio before any JVs held with Blackstone or was that encompassing it? Mike I think thats going to be both.
I think DDR will be a net seller on a wholly owned basis for the year and then when you add Blackstone will be a slightly larger net seller.
Although DDRs pro rata share of the Blackstone -- or the Blackstone sale of 230 million is only 5%.
So our pro rata share and the numbers were quoting is only $10 million.
And the next question is from Jim Sullivan of Cowen Group.
Question for you David kind of a follow-on from the earlier question regarding share buyback and whether thats kind of on the menu things you might look at.
Question I have is that with your commentary on cap rates today Im curious how you think about the margin and the value creation margin on your external investment either in ground up development or perhaps value added acquisitions take your choice? What do you think that value creation margin is given where kind of terminal cap rates are and how you think about that as an alternative to share buybacks? Yes we certainly think quite a bit about that.
Its not just been the script but the focus on capital allocation is significant.
And so it is a very regular exercise and extremely important to portfolio reviews but on a much more regular basis than that to say where should we be putting the next dollar or capital does it go back to shareholders in one form or another does it go into acquisitions redevelopments debt repayments do we try to find new ground up opportunities.
And so it is a deep focus.
I think different than a few years ago when we acknowledged one there was a capital raising requirement associated with that the sales and two there was a need to clean up this portfolio.
Today its focused on exactly where every dollar comes from what that costs us and where that dollar goes even to mid to small level leasing decisions that I think ended up resulting in higher net effective rents this quarter than we reported in a long period of time.
And so I do think when we look at the overall scope of opportunities that while we can certainly say it is very aggressively priced transactions market that we do think we can find some value add acquisition opportunities.
We have the team with making sure every deal that we buy is effectively a case study of how we can create value that it can become a slide in the investor presentation.
Heres how we bought Willowbrook in Houston and people dislike the overall market and when occupancy was 10 percentage points below what we thought we could achieve over time and then we need to execute on that or opportunities to grow within a certain submarket where we think we increase our pricing power opportunities like the one in Philadelphia last year where were buying where weve got a tenant in our back pocket so were simply underwriting the assets and the small amount of vacancy very different than anyone else.
And so I dont think we want people to believe that there arent acquisition opportunities.
We just believe that the disposition opportunity in todays market is greater than the volume of acquisition opportunities.
Thats different than only a few years ago where we were a significant net acquirer in a market that was priced very differently than the one today.
And so I do think youll continue to see us buying some volume of attractive value add acquisition opportunities as that we talked about earlier to the portfolio review process certainly looking to backfill or even grow the redevelopment pipeline and believe that that will continue to be a very attractive use of capital.
And then finally on the ground up development side as we complete these final two legacy projects we certainly look around for other for other opportunities but so far just havent found ones where the risk adjusted returns at all justify our capital.
And so happy to say that we will continue to actively look there but cant point to any additional activity on that from today.
The next question comes from Jason White of Green Street Advisors.
Hey David just going back to your previous comments you talked about your development pipeline if you will; youre continuing to look for opportunities.
It seems like a little bit of a change where before you were evaluating how you thought the development of the business and whether it was worthwhile to even have a development platform.
Has that been a kind of changed attack or you can walk through the slightly change in message there over time? I did not mean it to be a change in message.
I think for us we absolutely believe having a development capacity is extremely important whether its ground up or whether thats reflected in constant really seen in small scale and hopefully some larger scale redevelopment opportunity.
And so I dont think weve meant to downplay that.
I think in some ways when we talk about the legacy development pipeline we have clearly meant to downplay the returns associated with returning land for too long a period of time and even the write-down on some of that land earlier this year but the overall capacity we believe to be critically important.
But like with everything else its returns driven business.
And we will allocate capital where we think we can make the most money for shareholders.
And so its something where we dont see great opportunity today but certainly not looking to downplay that capacity within DDR.
And our next question comes from Rich Moore of RBC Capital Markets.
Hey guys this is James Sanders [ph] on for Rich.
G&amp;A was notably lower this quarter is that due primarily to staff reduction? And if so what areas of business do you plan to scale back the most? No we not do the staff reductions.
I think overall we identified early on opportunities to operate more efficiently.
Weve recognized those quickly.
And youve see in the run rate recurring G&amp;A I think changes that have been to be implemented pretty quickly and have been consistent this quarter to last quarter and certainly lower than last year.
So no staff cuts of no department.
Were being focused -- I think theres a high level of excitement and encouragement to the employee base and from the employee base where were operating more efficiently but not running around saying how much smaller does the team need to be.
Weve got an exceptional and deep team and were excited to keep them around but to still be able to operate with a little greater level of efficiency and pass those savings through to bottom-line earnings and to shareholders.
The next question is a follow-up from Michael Bilerman of Citi.
Yes I just want to make sure I got the trajectory right just in terms of asset sales as well as G&amp;A.
So just from a net sales perspective Luke I think you mentioned 90 million more of acquisitions that you have full confidence to close in the fourth quarter.
And you announced a couple of weeks ago that you have $268 million your share of assets to dispose.
So call it a negative 180 in the fourth quarter.
And I think you guys have talked numerous times on the call now about being a net seller in 16.
I just dont know the magnitude.
Is that 100 million is it 250 million because both would have a pretty dramatic effect on your -- and I respect the focus on NAV but clearly from an earnings perspective as you pay down cheap debt would be quite dilutive? And then I think from a G&amp;A perspective you are on the 70 million sort of run rate if you are sort of done with all the efficiency saves I assume now will be back to a more pressured labor type of cost and just continue now rise from this level on a more modest basis again as we think about next year.
Absolutely Michael I think the easy way to look at this year is if you look at the assets under contract and the ones that are sold year-to-date I think were a little above 600 million.
And if you assume were buying around 250 million we are probably going to be a net seller in the magnitude of around 400 million for the year.
Next year I just want to highlight what David said in his comments and what Ive outlined it is truly opportunistic.
So if prices remain high I think we will be net seller however not to a smaller magnitude than what we are in 2015.
What that number is? Its hard to say.
If we continue to see 10 to 20 credible bidders bidding on assets that we feel is being overpriced compared to our internal valuation and our return on capital we will absolutely take advantage of that pricing changes.
We may not be a large net seller at all looking into next year.
So I think where we sit now we are comfortable and we have very clear visibility till the end of this year looking into next year.
From a wholly-owned basis its going to be driven by pricing with partners.
And going back to your earlier question on Blackstone clearly we do need to engage and we are obviously always engaged with our partners looking over their portfolio.
But there is a partner involved on when they choose to execute on dispositions.
With regards to paying down low coupon debt I just want to highlight that next year we do have 9.625% paper.
I wouldnt consider that low coupon for us.
And I think we will be paying that down.
So that significantly reduces the FFO dilution from any net dispositions.
But I do believe as we focus on appropriate risk profile paying down some element of debt with EBITDA growth will lower debt-to-EBITDA to the range which we are clearly trying to operate in which is a turn lower than where we are today.
With regards to G&amp;A you are right its probably in that low semis.
I do think that there is a slight upward revision from that looking at in the future years.
You did make a reference to labor cost but I do think that will come up but it will be lower than what the historical run rate was at DDR.
And the next question is from Chris Lucas of Capital One Securities.
Going back to the Blackstone partnership I guess I was trying to understand maybe you could give us some color on the dynamics underlying that and your options as it relates to the ROFO on the 10 assets and when you thought the term of that optionality would be.
Is that something that is still many years out or is that something thats going to be something that you guys are going to be looking to execute on over the next year or two? Chris with regard to the dynamic I think the relationship remains very good.
We continue to review transactions new transactions and new investment opportunities with Blackstone but they have acknowledged and we have acknowledged that our portfolio and our focus on the quality of the real estate may some opportunities dont fit our long-term strategy.
With regard to the third joint venture we do have a ROFO right of first offer on 10 of the assets which make up a considerable amount of the value of the portfolio.
With regard to timing on that its clearly going to be dependent on when we feel its appropriate for our cost of capital but also its up to when Blackstone deem that they want to exit and feel that they have the made returns that they warrant.
So they are investors.
So I do feel where we sit today we are in a very good position to be able to acquiring a number of the assets that we feel would fit very well in our platform.
And I dont want to remind everyone that when we do that obviously the underwriting is extremely and we have de-risked that portfolio and the knowledge of the assets help us on reinvesting the capital.
But right now I would say its a few years out.
Although the portfolio was acquired at an extremely attractive price looking at todays market the assets we sell which is the bottom tier is 20% above what we felt we acquired it for.
We do feel like there is some additional portfolio pruning to do with Blackstone before we feel it makes sense to take Blackstone out.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
And the conference is also now concluded.
Thank you for attending todays presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the DDR Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Meghan Finneran Senior Financial Analyst.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
On today's call you will hear from President and CEO David Oakes CFO and Treasurer Luke Petherbridge and Senior Executive Vice President of Leasing and Development Paul Freddo.
Please be aware that certain of our statements today may be forward-looking.
Although we believe such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions you should understand that these statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Additional information about such risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ may be found in the press release issued yesterday and the documents that we file with the SEC including our form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 as amended.
In addition we will be discussing non-GAAP financial measures on today's call including FFO and operating FFO.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in our earnings press release issued yesterday.
This release and our quarterly financial supplement are available at our website at www.DDR.com.
Last we will be observing a one-question limit during the Q&amp;A portion of our call in order to give everyone the opportunity to participate.
If you have additional questions please rejoin the queue.
At this time it is my pleasure to introduce our President and Chief Executive Officer David Oakes.
Thank you Meghan.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call.
Given that we recently held our 2016 guidance call in January I will keep my comments brief.
As you know our focus in 2015 was on three pillars owning the best locations for the future of retail allocating capital prudently and executing with a lower risk profile.
I'm very pleased with our team's execution on each.
To recap 2015 briefly we grew FFO per share by 6% grew our dividend by 11% generated same-store NOI growth of 3.1% -- above our original range -- produced new leasing spreads of 22% and renewal spreads of 7% and made important strides culturally that we expect will flow through to outsized NAV and FFO growth for years to come.
It's important to point out that these accomplishments came in the midst of a Management transition highlighting the caliber of our senior leadership and the quality of the employees that I come to work with every day.
Turning to our transactional progress our portfolio evolution was dramatic in 2015.
We heeded the signals from both the private and public markets and executed on $326 million of acquisitions and $569 million of dispositions at our share.
The fruits of our transactional efforts through the years which include selling nearly 500 assets and acquiring over 200 assets since 2008 were on display in the fourth quarter operating results.
Excluding Puerto Rico same store NOI growth in the wholly-owned portfolio a pool that makes up approximately 80% of our NOI was 4.5% in the fourth quarter highlighting the tremendous strength of our core business.
Additionally we grew average base rent per square foot for the portfolio by 4.1% year over year the third consecutive year of growth above 4%.
Interestingly despite having the most aggressive transactional program in the peer group over the past few years the nominal cap rate ascribed to our portfolio by the investment community has seemingly moved in lock step with our peer group highlighting the lack of recognition for the progress made.
While it is difficult to market the quality upgrades through dispositions versus acquisitions and shedding weaker assets is often out of favor in a bull market we expect that our operating results and subsequent FFO and NAV growth will illustrate our upgrade over time.
As you are aware the beginning of the year is when we see the highest frequency of bankruptcies in retail.
There are three primary reasons why we're not as concerned about pending bankruptcies relative to prior years.
First DDR's craft is leasing space.
Since 2008 we have leased over 80 million square feet including signing 544 new anchor leases and we will approach pending vacancies in the comparably aggressive fashion that we have historically.
We budget for potential fallout within our guidance ranges and we market space well in advance of store closings.
Second the list of tenants looking for new space far exceeds those potentially closing stores and combined with a continued lack of material new supply for junior box space positive absorption and favorable rent should not be an issue.
Finally as we move into this bankruptcy season the quality of our NOI stream is on display.
Over the past few years we have not only exited weak assets but also a great deal of weak credits and the active management of our watch list has protected us from doing new deals with questionable tenants.
As we look to the remainder of 2016 little has changed in terms of our operational or transactional expectations and as a result there are no changes to our previously disclosed guidance range.
While the credit markets have been volatile over the past few months and some assets have seen a less significant number of bidders we have not seen cap rates increase from what we're selling as the demand for assets remains strong and many of the buyers we're working with are not reliant on the high loan-to-value CMBS market.
As such we continue to believe that our disposition activity will be significant and weighted to the front half of the year.
As I complete my first year as CEO of this Company I'm proud of our organization's focus and progress throughout 2015.
With that said our team is well aware that expectations are even higher in 2016.
Internal progress continues to exceed share price performance.
However we have conviction in our strategy our asset quality and our risk profile and we believe that the market will reward those companies who are most thoughtful about capital allocation over the long term.
I will now turn the call over to Paul.
Thanks David.
Our team's focus on execution our dramatic portfolio evolution and the current supply and demand dynamics allowed us to produce another consistently strong quarter and year in terms of operating results.
In the fourth quarter we executed 290 new deals and renewals for over 2.5 million square feet.
Deals spread for robust with new deal spreads of 24.5% and renewal spreads of 7%; while same-store NOI came in at 3.4% the highest in the last 12 quarters.
Our full-year 2015 results were equally as impressive.
New deal spreads were 22% near all-time highs; we leased nearly 11 million square feet the highest volume in our history; and we renewed 90% of all square footage rolling also above our historical average of approximately 85%.
For further detail behind our same-store NOI of 3.4% in the fourth quarter our wholly-owned assets excluding Puerto Rico grew at 4.5% a fantastic number for a portfolio that makes up 80% of our NOI.
Leasing and minor redevelopment activity at some of our time prime-plus and prime assets continues to drive this metric and the strong fourth quarter included activity at prime-plus assets such as Shoppers World in Boston Midtown Miami and Woodfield Village in Chicago all highly leased assets that we continue to grow.
Our same-store performance is a testament to the strength and quality of our team and portfolio and we feel confident that our process for determining this figure is as indicative as any in the industry in terms of understanding the recurring NOI less major capital expenditures associated with a portfolio of high-quality power centers.
Our pro rata leased rate improved 20 basis points sequentially and is flat year over year as we finish 2015 with a leased rate of 96%.
Remaining flat year over year is in large part due to the continued sale of low-growth assets with leased rates in the high 90% range and the acquisition of assets with some vacancy and significant growth potential.
In the fourth quarter alone we sold 2.2 million square feet with a leased rate of 98%.
And during the full year we sold 6.2 million square feet with an average leased rate of 97%.
These sales in conjunction with our acquisitions accounted for 10 basis points of pressure on the lease rate relative to year end 2014 and will translate into more of a growth runway with fewer low and negative growth assets and an increased occupancy opportunity.
I would also like to point out that we improved the small-shop leased rate for units under 5 000 square feet by 60 basis points highlighting the strength in this category from national and regional players such as smaller fitness users fast casual dining options and salons and service users as well as mom and pops.
As David mentioned it is no secret that certain retailers are being mentioned as possible candidates for reorganization in 2016 and we're constantly asked whether these scenarios represent an opportunity or a concern.
First we look at the names being mentioned as reorganizations not liquidations which is a significant difference.
Second as we have made dramatic improvement in the quality of our portfolio and the credit quality of our tenants we definitely look at the possibility of replacing struggling retailers with best-in-class dynamic retailers as a clear opportunity not only to improve the rent paid on a given space but to improve the terminal cap rates at which a given center would trade.
Third we watch all of our tenants' performance closely and are fully cognizant of and prepared for the space that we would get back.
One very recent example of this is a Sports Authority that did not take its option in California in the first quarter.
We have already agreed to economics with three high-quality national tenants in the 8000 to 14000 square foot range at a combined spread of 22% and an estimated net value creation after CapEx of $5.5 million.
Clearly retenanting boxes comes with downtime and capital but as David also mentioned this is our craft.
And owning high-quality assets that will outperform as retail continues to evolve puts us in a position to take full advantage of these opportunities.
To provide an update on Puerto Rico I would like to share a few very important metrics regarding our portfolio on the island.
In 2015 we generated over 400 000 square feet of total leasing activity in Puerto Rico and we continue to see reported sales on the island as relatively flat on a rolling 12-month basis.
A couple of bright spots include traffic that as many of you have observed remains consistently strong and historically low accounts receivable and bad debt.
Same-store NOI was slightly negative in the fourth quarter and while this again highlights how strong the wholly-owned domestic assets are performing we're cognizant of the distress on the island.
The fact is while the macro environment continues to struggle there is still demand for new space in Puerto Rico and the consumer demand coupled with the perpetual lack of competitive new supply positions our assets well as the commonwealth further copes with problems that have existed for years.
Finally I would like to make a comment about all of the excitement and confusion in the press over Amazon's plans to open in brick-and-mortar locations.
We like others have had conversations with Amazon to understand what their plans might be and how they might eventually fit into our constantly improving portfolio of assets.
Without knowing exactly when what and how many the point is that they and other existing online and other yet unknown retail concepts will grow their brick-and-mortar presence and will want to do so in quality locations such as the locations we're focused on.
And I will now turn the call over to Luke.
Thanks mate.
For the fourth quarter operating FFO was $114.1 million or $0.31 per share.
Including non-operating items FFO for the quarter was $116.7 million or $0.32 per share.
Non-operating items consisted primarily of transaction costs offset by asset sale gains.
For the full year operating FFO was $446.2 million or $1.23 per share which is a 6.1% increase over the prior year.
Including non-operating items FFO for the year was $348.3 million or $0.96 per share.
Non-operating items consisted primarily of non-cash impairments charges taken in the first quarter of 2015.
It is worth noting that in the past five years DDR has been able to grow our FFO per share at a compound annual growth rate of more than 6%.
This is despite selling nearly $4 billion of lower-quality assets highlighting our ability to manage dilutive events.
During the fourth quarter we closed on the sale of nine operating assets and three land parcels for $211 million at our share bringing the full-year total to 66 operating assets and eight non-operating assets sold for $570 million at our share.
Pricing within our asset class remains at historic high levels and we have leveraged this environment to opportunistically sell the bottom tier of our portfolio at an average cap rate of 7.2%.
As outlined by David we acknowledge the impact these dispositions have on our short term performance but we absolutely feel this is the right step in the current market conditions which will materially improve our Company's forward-looking earnings growth while reducing downside earnings risk.
The assets sold in 2015 were over 96% leased and were underwritten to grow at less than 2% over the coming years.
Additionally the sale of these assets eliminated over 20 boxes which re-leased to watch list tenants which will further reduce retail full impact to our earnings.
For example recent assets sold like Home Depot Center 150 000 square foot center in Chicago with five-year NOI growth profile of 1.7% for a mid 6% cap rate.
Notwithstanding our dispositions have dominated the volume of transactions in 2015 and into the first half of this year our talented transaction team continued to source and review opportunities to deploy capital into new opportunities where we feel our operating platform can achieve creative returns.
In the fourth quarter we closed on the acquisition of seven assets for $166 million at our share bringing the full-year total to 10 shopping centers and three out parcels acquired for $330 million.
Six of the seven properties acquired in fourth quarter were purchased in conjunction with Blackstone for $13 million at our 5% share and carried an $83 million preferred equity component with an 8.5% annual return.
Our joint venture platform remains a prudent low-risk avenue for acquiring high-quality dirt at off market pricing and allows DDR the opportunity to acquire assets at attractive pricing.
The transaction differs slightly from our prior deals with Blackstone as we only took in equity interest in the higher quality assets that we have a right of first offer on.
These centers are located in Long Island Philadelphia Miami and Orlando.
We're confident in our ability to accretively replace upper third equity position with NOI from acquisitions or with additional preferred equity as our existing joint ventures with Blackstone are wound down gradually in the coming years.
We also acquired Millennium Plaza in the four quarter a 400 000 square foot power center located in Orlando and anchored by Dick's Sporting Goods BJ's Wholesale Club The Home Depot and Ross Dress For Less.
This acquisition elevates Orlando to the Company's sixth largest market by pro rata base rent and significantly increased our presence in the Mall of Millennia retail corridor where we now own three centers all acquired in the last year and have become the dominant open-air landlord in the sub-market.
The strong demand for our property type has allowed us to close 2015 as a net seller by approximately $250 million.
As we discussed in our guidance call in January we're also projecting to net sale approximately $450 million at the midpoint of our guidance range.
To that point in the first quarter this year we have sold 14 of the 17 operating assets that were under contract for sale totaling $195 million at our share and have 4 assets still under contract for sale and 21 under agreement highlighting our commitment to the final legs of the portfolio upgrade and take advantage of the continued strength of the transactional market for institutional-quality assets.
I would like to highlight that DDR trades at an implied cap rate comparable to where we're selling our lowest quality assets approximately 80 basis points outside our shopping center peers.
This is the same relative bifurcation the stock experienced in 2010 and 2011 prior to DDR selling an additional 280 assets.
On the capital market side we issued $400 million of 10-year unsecured notes in October at a 4.25% coupon marking our 10th unsecured issuance since 2009 and our continued attractive access to the bond market.
The proceeds were used to repay the $350 million of convertible notes that were due in November which carried a GAAP interest rate of 5.25% and a cash interest rate of 1.75%.
We have $350 million of secured and unsecured debt maturing in 2016 at a weighted average interest rate of 7.8% and we intend to accretively repay all maturities with disposition proceeds and at this point do not intend to access the capital markets in 2016.
Our 2016 maturities consist of $240 million of seven-year unsecured debt that was issued in 2009 and carries an interest rate of 9 5/8% which will be fully retired in March.
Following the repayment of all 2016 maturities DDR's consolidated debt tier ratio will be the longest on record since 2005 and represents our desire for a comprehensive lack of funding risk.
Finally expected asset sales proceeds will be used to retire maturing debt and reduce our consolidated debt to EBITDA by approximately 0.5 to 0.8 times by year end 2016.
The growing size of our unencumbered pool our exposure to floating-rate debt and ample access to liquidity through our asset sale proceeds have dramatically reduced our risk profile and put our balance sheet in a position to outperform in all market cycles.
With that I will now turn the call back to the operator for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
David could you talk little bit about your same-store NOI? And how much impact does bad debt make a dent to the 3.4% reported same-store NOI growth? And if you included your bad debt reserve into your 2016 same-store NOI guidance what would that 2.5% to 3.5% guidance look like? One of our policies associated with same-store NOI that really tries to accomplish that goal of that number answering the question how is this portfolio growing this quarter year-over-year is the items that do have multi-year impact are not included in same-store NOI.
So bad debt would be one of those items because often times you could have two years of accrued accounts receivable that were booked as income all get written off in one quarter.
So you effectively captured all of that in one period of time as opposed to truly saying what is the portfolio doing this quarter this year versus last year.
We calculate and follow closely the bad debt numbers; they were actually down a little bit in 2015.
And so effectively if we included them it would have helped the number a little bit in 2015.
We budget them to be a little bit higher in 2016.
And so if we did include them in 2016 it would take that same store NOI a little bit lower.
But overall bad debt remains very low which we think is a positive sign for what we're seeing in the retail environment.
And like I said if we did include it for 2015 which has always been our policy to exclude it from the same-store NOI calculation it would have been slightly beneficial to our reported results.
Our next question comes from Christy McElroy of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Just with regards to development and redevelopment as you deliver on some big projects in 2016 are there any large projects that you expect to start this year? Just wondering how to think about 2017 and beyond external growth and how you're thinking about new projects and major capital commitments as we enter a more uncertain retail environment? One of the things we're showing in the sup these days is real projects.
There are other projects as you point out that will be started and will be later out year completions.
We're really going to focus on and I will start with redevelopment.
There's a large handful of some of our larger and better assets that we've got some plans.
But we're going to include them when they are real.
And steer away from a large -- a big number out there with a program of $1 billion or multiple billions over several years.
We want to be real in the sup about what's deliverable and when we're going to deliver it.
There other things that don't show that will show in future quarters; that will be second phases of projects Lee Vista will be one.
Belgate we're commencing a second phase that we will spell out in future quarters.
The second phase down in Kyle which is an Austin market where we had a development several years ago we think will kick off a second phase either late this year or in 2017 for probably an 2018 completion.
Again the focus within the sup is to be more real in terms of what we're showing you guys as real projects and when they'll be delivered and exactly what those costs are going to look like.
But there is clearly a pipeline.
The other thing to remember is we talk about development as -- that we're clearly taking a much more thoughtful approach to how we look at the pipeline what we're going to deal with.
We see quite a number of projects that are presented to us as possibilities.
We've repeated this quarter after quarter we're not going to get into long term entitlement processes.
We're going to look at projects that we know we can deliver in a one to three-year horizon.
And again the focus is going to be on what's real.
I'm not concerned about a lack of pipeline because there is plenty out there for us to do.
It's just going to be a much more thoughtful approach and you're going to see what's real and what we can deliver.
Our next question comes from Todd Thomas of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Leasing spreads in the fourth quarter were strong.
We've seen that across the strip space for the most part this quarter.
Have discussions changed at all with retailers of the last 30 to 45 days or so? Do you think we should expect to see leasing activity moderate a bit throughout the year if broader economic conditions do not improve? No Todd.
The conversations have continued to change in our favor if you will.
We continue to see rents growing.
I don't see any slowdown in that.
One of the things that came out of New York in consistent conversations post-holiday sales is the retailers that are growing market share are not pulling back on their growth plans.
That's consistent with the retailers we're focused on.
You hear us talk about the winners which are clearly in the value and the off-price play and we feel very good about where they sit in this environment.
We feel very good about their continued growth plans and I don't expect any change in the near term in that conversation.
Our next question comes from Jeremy Metz of UBS.
Please go ahead.
David in your opening comments you mentioned not seen any moving cap rates for the secondary or even call it non-core assets here you're selling yet.
Buyer pools are thinning and it feels at least anecdotally that pricing is set to move at the disruption in the capital markets.
I'm wondering if that's at all weighing on your thinking and encouraging you at all to try to push some of these transactions to happen sooner before maybe the market does move even if you have to compromise in pricing a bit? Jeremy I think you raised some good points.
We certainly did want to be up front with the comment that we're seeing buyer pools a little bit smaller but tried to make the point that this is going from a very significant number of buyers to a still significant number of buyers.
So directionally I get what you're asking about and the way you're thinking about it but we still are seeing a significant enough amount of demand a significant enough amount of equity that is funding that where we haven't seen things change.
In fact on the other side even if spreads had been more volatile obviously treasury rates going lower so some things that do continue to encourage buyers.
And so we're not seeing a significant change there at all.
But on the other side I think we've outlined some important plans to complete the last stage of the asset sale process and get that stuff done.
And now that we've made those decisions we just see no reason to wait.
And so it's not a notion of compromise on price to emphasize timing strategically we've made this decision to do this we've presented it as part guidance.
And so we think it's prudent to execute as soon as possible on what we've outlined.
Hopefully it's more a signal of that than any sort of true deterioration that we're forecasting in the next several quarters.
Our next question comes from Alexander Goldfarb of Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
First wrapping up a chapter there with the sale of Paseo Colorado.
It was last of the Trizec mixed-use projects.
Question for Paul on your Amazon comments.
As you speak to different internet retailers who are looking at bricks and mortar strategies are they open a blank canvas as far as what retail format they look at whether it's malls grocery anchored shopping centers or power centers? Or when you start conversations with them most of them have sort of a preconceived notion of what format they want to be in? It's early on in that whole conversation Alex.
I will tell you some of them and Warby Parker and Bonobos are two examples -- these guys are going to start with street retail in some of the sexiest markets in the country.
It's really how does it grow from there? Where do they go from there? There is no preconceived do they move to a mall do they move to great power centers? There is a possibility.
Amazon is a different story.
This conversation about the bookstores clearly fit right into our product type and property type.
I don't want to speak for other calls but the point that was trying to be made was they are going to grow and they're going to grow significantly and it's going to be over time and they are going to pick quality locations.
And if you own quality locations they're going to be in it.
So right now I would tell you simple comment is that on the Amazon piece we're quite confident that when -- and that is a big unknown as to when they eventually roll out some kind of bookstore program they're going to be looking at power centers as well as some of the better mall properties in the country.
The other guys it's going to start with the street retail and you will see it grow from there.
Alex I don't want to lose -- anybody to lose the focus on the fact that what we're seeing with the existing retailers in place too.
As these guys become more and more of a power and a presence in that whole multi- and omni-channel world that's today and for the next couple years what I see is the much greater focus.
How are our retailers successful best-in-class retailers driving that business and what are they doing to compete in that online format? Our next question comes from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
This is George on for Tayo.
A couple of questions I guess first on Puerto Rico if you could just give a little more color into the slight negative same-store NOI? Is that more occupancy or rate driven? And then also what are releasing and spreads looking like in Puerto Rico? I'll start with the last bit George.
The spreads are just like I say low single digit but we're seeing some positive spreads on the releasing across the deals we've made over the year end and in the fourth quarter.
The same story -- we had a couple of Kmart's leave during the year and as we've mentioned on prior calls we obviously believe those created an opportunity well below market.
Low rents but significant impact late in the year and in the fourth quarter.
So spreads I would say certainly lower than the overall portfolio but again flat to slightly positive.
And lease rate was pretty consistent between quarters Q3 to Q4.
Don't see that going much lower so we should grow back.
But again I think the Kmarts are probably the biggest impact on same store.
Our next question comes from Floris van Dijkum of Boenning.
Please go ahead.
Paul this is for you.
Could you please comment on the off-price retailer growth in particular TJ Maxx which is our largest tenant and Ross? They're almost in one-third of your centers I believe now.
How does that impact the overall retail market in your view on the shopper's preference for your centers with those tenants relative to maybe traditional outlets? First of all the two names you mentioned TJ with their various concepts and Ross aren't outlet retailers.
They are typical power center strip center retailers who are fantastic.
So I'll start with their growth.
They both continue to want to grow in that 100 store per year range which is just an incredible number because this is a number that have been achieving for the last several years.
Another thing worth pointing out about those guys and I'm emphasizing this because quite frankly I like to brag about them and our emphasis on retailers such as TJ and Ross these are guys who led in results going into the recession during the recession and in the many years since the recession which is an incredible consistent story and goes well beyond something that just only plays when everybody is feeling down.
It's not something you see in any other sectors.
Start with the luxury sector which obviously is going to have big swings up and down.
We're seeing it in the department stores.
The department store model is a very difficult one.
Those are not guys we're focused on.
We're focused on the retailers you are talking about.
Their performance has been incredibly consistent they want to grow in a big way.
They want to continue to take market share in a big way and we're confident they will.
I don't see it as any overlap with traditional outlet centers.
The excitement of the merchandise offering the different merchandise offering that can be in a TJ Maxx at any one time it drives traffic and it drives excitement with the consumer.
I see nothing but continued upside and growth for those off-price and value retailers.
Another thing I think is worth thinking about is how we see other retailers continue to go after that business.
Not that Nordstrom Rack is new to it at all but very successful with that division of Nordstrom.
You have Macy's with Backstage and Lord and Taylor now.
Others see the success and just not the short term success but the longer term sustainable success of TJ and Ross and are going after that business.
Our next question comes from Carol Kemple of Hilliard Lyons.
Please go ahead.
In your centers what retailers are you seeing that want to expand besides your off-price value retailers? Bed Bath and Beyond is one that is clearly expanding.
Dick's Sporting Goods in a big way with a couple different divisions with their Dick's Sporting Goods and their Field &amp; Stream.
Those are couple of the retailers that we see are always looking to grow.
Okay.
And then in the last five years have you seen any kind of significant shift between the amount of physical retailers in your shopping centers and the service retailers whether it be like a Drybar or a Massage Envy? Or would you say the percentage is about the same? I would say the percentage is the same.
In our best power centers you don't see a big component that's in that category you mentioned whether it's service or some of the food and beverage.
In the grocery anchor there's a little more of that but percentages haven't changed over time.
Our next question comes from Mike Mueller of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Just taking a look at the sup at the redevelopments and can you walk through what exactly causes a project to fall into the major redevelopment bucket versus the minor bucket? And how much of the minor deliveries do you expect to come online in 2016? We don't have a cut and dry rule on it Mike but it's usually about $10 million.
Typically includes additional GLA for the project.
It's a little bit of feel and that's one of the reasons we're going to spell them out and you're not going to see a long long list of majors.
There will be others coming to the list and you'll recognize the centers are some of our best centers as we refine our plans and think through exactly how much we're going to spend and when we're going to deliver.
On the minor I don't want to wing this too much but it's going to be somewhere in I think about the $90 million -- somewhere in that $80 million to $90 million range for deliveries.
We expect a run rate Mike of right at about $100 million maybe a little north of that in any given year in terms of CIP.
But in terms of deliveries this year it will be somewhere in that $80 million to $90 million range.
Mike probably the other thing to note is we did update our disclosure earlier this year -- or last year to break out the redevelopments to major and minor.
Clearly major is not in our same store and that is the main reason we put that in there.
And then minor is going to have a significant number of projects that come in and out.
The one coming out this quarter was part of Seabrook which is our New Hampshire development.
Our next question comes from Chris Lucas of Capital One Securities.
Just a follow-up question actually on the last one which is as it relates to the process by which you take something that's in the shadow and move it to the supplement are there specific rules or milestones that have to be achieved? Or is it more of a feel process? In terms of what's brought to the sup that's not a feel.
That's when we think a project is real and we've thought through and we've got a pretty accurate understanding of what the spend is going to be and when we're going to bring it online Chris.
So again what we wanted to get away from was just putting out a big bold number that we're going to deliver X in the next few years something that never seems to be terribly accountable and is all over the place in our industry.
This is going to be something where you're going to see real projects move in and you'll see them move out when there are delivered and put into service.
But what moves into the sup and out of the sup certainly it's not a feel that's just real stuff.
Our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple quick ones did you already talk about what motivated you to sell Paseo Colorado a major redevelopment project before it was completed? And the second question with some of the news that happened this week on same-store NOI accounting just curious if that prompted any kind of internal discussion -- new internal discussions with the Management team or Board members on how you report that number at all? So on Paseo that was a 550 000 square foot class A lifestyle center which we acquired in the early 2000s.
It's located in Pasadena.
Basically that is a project we have been working on for the better part of a decade but more recently over the last couple of years we have had significant leasing momentum there.
We started what would have been a significant redevelopment probably one of the largest in the Company's history.
We were approached off market by the buyer and we felt that the price that they offered gave us the majority of the gain which we felt we would realize through the redevelopment today and obviously remove a significant amount of risk from our development pipeline going forward.
It had a huge component probably one-third of the spend was in residential or condos.
So we just felt that the price offered was in line with class A mall pricing and we were able to realize the gain which we felt we were going to get over the probably the next two to three years or more today.
So we thought it was a prudent decision from a risk point of view.
On same-store NOI we've had a consistent process for years.
We even outlined specifically in that back section of our supplemental with major accounting policies we outlined the mindset and some of the specifics regarding same-store NOI.
We have dedicated personnel that spend a considerable amount of time post quarter close working on that calculation.
We have oversight from our internal audit group and so it is a number that we have been very focused on for a long period of time and believe we've calculated consistently and believe we're well positioned on a go-forward basis.
We've lived through quarters like the first quarter of this year where some one-time snow removal expenses or just some seasonal expenses impacted that result lower and we dealt with reporting a quarter that was lower than our expectation at times.
And this quarter at the end of the year coming in very strong; and so we've dealt with the reality of what the results provided.
We have obviously been even more focused on it given the events of the past week.
We had our Board meeting earlier this week we had our audit committee meeting earlier this week we've had a good discussion with those groups and I think everyone here is comfortable with the way we have calculated it and the way that we expect to calculate it going forward.
I think you have been very much at the forefront of trying to make those numbers comparable between companies and calling out surprises or inconsistencies when you saw them and we really have tried to make this number as much as possible the right answer to how the assets are growing on a year-over-year basis.
So I think we will continue with that process we will continue to exclude major redevelopment activity that we think does not represent same store.
And so it's been a focus and I think it continues to be the one that we think our process works and we're not inclined to change it.
Our next question comes from Craig Schmidt of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thinking about acquisitions those assets that you are interested in acquiring are the bidders similar in size were they worse versus maybe 9 or 12 months ago? And what is the composition of those bidders? Craig the answer to that is for the stuff we're looking to buy so prime plus power centers the composition really hasn't changed.
I think David made a -- we answered a question earlier and made some comments about with the recent debt changes has that altered pricing? I think you may start to see that in non-institutional non-prime assets.
We're not seeing that on the stuff we're selling.
So I think we're selling institutional assets but even taking that to the other extreme I think the high quality assets that we consider would be a good fit for our platform are still remaining extremely competitively bid by whether it's public rates -- and but more so it's private money whether it's pension funds or sovereigns or asset allocations.
I think advisors they are still a significant force in the acquisition side.
They still have a significant amount of capital to place.
We don't envisage that coming off at all in the near term.
However we do think we're able to probably find a couple hundred million of acquisitions this year.
Whether it's off market or whether it's using our platform we feel we're going to be able to achieve a better return on our equity.
But the acquisition side for prime and prime plus assets remains extremely difficult.
Our next question comes from George Hoglund of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Just a question on Sports Authority in terms of the 2015 or 2016 locations and the portfolios on average are there in place rents above or below market? And if you can provide any overall color on the quality of the centers they're in that would be great.
George on average clearly below I would say some are probably at market.
But the better point to make on the Sports Authority portfolio they are in some of our best assets.
Just rattling off a few Midtown Miami Shoppers World in Framingham Perimeter Point in Atlanta come to mind.
These are all locations we'd absolutely love to get back.
It's also worth noting a couple are back so the number -- like the one I referenced in California where we've already made deals to retenant the space quickly which speaks to the fact that we're way out in front.
We have a very good feel as to which locations we would get back if any upon filing and a great working relationship with those guys.
So we have a real good idea of what works and doesn't work for Sports Authority.
But bottom line they are in great locations for the most part they are below market and they are a retailer in these locations that we would love to replace with a strong and long list of quality retailers who are looking for the space including specialty grocers and others in these locations.
This concludes our question and answer session.
This also concludes today's conference.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may disconnect.
Have a great day.