Welcome to the Discover Financial Services First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today's conference.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Craig Streem Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Streem you may begin.
Thanks Christine.
Welcome everybody.
Glad you're with us for this afternoon's call.
Let me begin as always by reminding you that today's discussion contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report and in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2010 which is on file with the SEC.
In this first quarter 2011 earnings release and supplement which are now up on our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explained why these presentations are useful to management and to investors.
And of course we urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Finally let me remind all of you that we will be holding our annual financial community update tomorrow morning at 8:30 here at the New York Palace Hotel.
If you want more information about that meeting please get in touch with me later this evening via e-mail.
With that event in front of us we are going to keep this call and your questions hopefully focused on our first quarter results and performance.
We will have much more for you tomorrow regarding our strategies for growth and we'll have ample opportunity to take your questions in regard to those strategies and issues tomorrow morning.
Our call this afternoon will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Roy Guthrie our Chief Financial Officer.
And as I said a Q&amp;A period following.
Now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Craig.
Good afternoon and thanks everyone for joining us.
As Craig mentioned we will be holding our annual financial community update tomorrow morning so we will keep this conference call focused specifically on first quarter results.
During tomorrow's meeting we will give you a full update of the driver of our current performance and on our strategic priorities for delivering profitable growth into the future.
After the market closed today we reported record first quarter net income of $465 million or $0.84 per share.
And we are very pleased to announce the restoration of our quarterly dividend to $0.06 per share making Discover an early mover to fully restore its dividends to pre-financial crisis levels.
Our first-quarter performance can be attributed to strong results in both of our business segments.
In Direct Banking we earned pretax income of $677 million driven by the ongoing improvement in credit.
Our Payment Services segment contributed $43 million of pretax income reflecting growth of 16% from last year's first quarter.
For the company as a whole I was very pleased that we achieved net worth volume of $68 billion an increase of 15% from a year-ago.
Turning now to some of our first quarter highlights for each segment.
In Direct Banking Discover Card achieved sales of $24 billion which represents a 7% year-over-year growth rate.
We continue to focus on increasing our merchant acceptance emphasizing our reward programs and leveraging our marketing investments to increase sales.
Our total loan portfolio increased 3% from last year due to the acquisition of The Student Loan Corporation.
We continue to be very excited about the growth potential and earning contribution of our Private Student Loan business.
Based on our first two months of results since closing on SLC we reaffirmed that we are on track for $0.09 EPS accretion in 2011 related to the SLC acquisition excluding a onetime related gain.
Looking only at our credit card loans they were down 3% year-over-year this quarter an improvement over the 5% decrease last year and trending towards our expected modest card portfolio growth year-over-year by the second half of 2011.
Our direct-to-consumer deposit business continued to grow this quarter as we added a net $1.2 billion in deposits.
In February we announced our intent to acquire $1 billion in deposits from Allstate Bank which also includes a multi-year banking product marketing relationship.
Subject to regulatory approval we expect the transaction to close midyear.
Our Payment Services segment turned in another strong quarter with 21% volume growth leading to a 16% increase in pretax income compared to last year.
I was really pleased with the growth in PULSE dollar volume which increased 24% over the same quarter a year ago.
In closing we're off to a great start for 2011 with record first-quarter profits the successful closing of a very important acquisition and the restoration of our dividend to prerecession levels.
We look forward to meeting with you tomorrow where we'll share our model for long-term profitable growth and the initiatives that will help us to achieve our goals.
And I will turn over to you Roy.
Thank you David.
Before I go into detail on the financial performance I wanted to comment on a couple of things.
First of all the enhancements that we made to our financial supplement which I think you'll be pleased with.
I mean it's simplified reporting.
Now that we are one year past FAS 166 167 we're not looking back on the settlement adjustments.
So as a result we're no longer going to need the as adjusted numbers in that presentation.
We've also added several new disclosures in the financial supplement to provide more detail in other income with credit metrics within the portfolio and we've added a balance sheet.
One of the biggest impacts to the Direct Banking segment reporting as David said was the introduction of Student Loan Corp.
So let me begin by his taking you through how SLC impacted our financials.
Ration on the deal was about $400 million.
That was 91.5% of the loan assets less the assumed liabilities.
The difference between the $30 a share or $600 million announced price is a $150 million payment made to Discover from Citi as a part of the overall transaction.
The assets and liabilities were set up on our books at fair market value.
More on this in our first quarter Q due out in a couple of weeks.
But the key point I wanted to make is that the receivables have been recorded at $3.1 billion which represents about a $700 million discount to book.
The discount on the receivables will be setup in two buckets.
One will accrete in the income overtime based on cash flows and the other bucket will serve to absorb the expected lifetime losses on the portfolio.
For that reason no losses from this portfolio will flow through our P&amp;L as long as the losses that are being incurred are in line with the initial expectations that we've made around sizing this non-accretable  bucket.
The discount will also be applied against debt of about $270 million and it will be amortized to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt instruments.
And there is an indemnification asset of about $100 million that was created which will wind down over time as cash is received from Citi for the expected losses that they indemnified us for.
We had two months of results from SLC in the quarter which contributed $30 million in pretax income including a onetime gain of $16 million related to our consent to the commutation of certain insurance policies.
And this was previously disclosed for those of you that weren't aware of that in an 8-K at the closing of the SLC deal.
The Direct Banking segment in total earned $677 million pretax in the first quarter.
Recall that in the first quarter of last year we enhanced our reserve methodology which had the effect of bringing reserve coverage to a full 12 months of losses and that resulted in a pretty sizable reserve billed and a loss in last year's first quarter of $208 million.
Moving to yield credit card interest yield dipped three basis points from the fourth quarter to 12.65%.
The modest compression here was due to increased level of lower yielding promotional balances the continued reduction of high rate balances and an increase in customers who pay their balances in full each month.
The impacts were mostly offset by lower levels of interest charge-offs.
As mentioned last quarter we expect further car deal compression throughout 2011 due to the same factors.
The degree in pace of the compression will depend upon the rate and composition of growth in the card portfolio over the course of the year.
And certainly total portfolio yield which declined 14 basis points sequentially will be influenced by now the SLC receivables and the growth of that over the course of this year.
Net interest margin for the Direct Banking segment including student loans and personal loans was 9.22% down six basis points sequentially reflecting the acquisition of student loans and a modest decline in the credit card yield I just referred to.
This was partially offset by ongoing lower funding related costs associated with lower levels of cash and liquid assets.
We expect the net interest margin to continue to decline and likely at a faster rate than you've seen here in the first quarter as loan yield compression outpaces the improvements in funding costs and lower charge-offs in the interest line.
Other income which was $6 million up over the prior year included the $6 million gain I mentioned related to SLC.
So recurring revenues were down about $10 million year-over-year and this was driven by lower fees from the CARD Act implementation.
Moving on to operating expenses we will continue to spend a bit more aggressively as credit improvements allow particularly for the opportunity to accelerate investments in growth.
And you can see this in the significant year-over-year increase in the marketing line.
Total operating expenses for the segment were up $115 million over the prior year again primarily related to the increase in marketing but also due to our professional fees from collections activities the inclusion this year of SLC in our results to mention just a couple.
We recorded a onetime credit of $23 million a year ago related to the resolution of our dispute with Morgan Stanley over our Visa/MasterCard settlement issue.
Turning to our portfolio total loans were up 3% from the prior year due to the acquisition of SLC and again partially offset by lower credit card loans.
Credit card receivables decreased 3% from the prior year.
However as you heard David say we are seeing stability in the portfolio and expect modest growth in the second half of 2011.
In terms of credit performance card loans greater than 30 days past due dropped 47 basis points sequentially to 3.59%.
The card net principal charge off rate decreased almost 100 basis points sequentially to 5.96%.
Based on a continued positive credit card performance and the outlook we have for future losses we released $271 million of reserves for the quarter.
The reduction in the reserve rate and the 30-day plus day delinquency rate for credit cards those two rates were right on top of each other if you look at their movement on a sequential quarter basis.
And so delinquency continues to be a very good benchmark for the way we're reserving the portfolio.
Personal loans increased $573 million year-over-year as we expanded further into the broad market.
In terms of credit performance personal loans greater than 30 days past due dropped 37 basis points sequentially to 1.20%.
And the personal loan net charge-off rate decreased 60 basis points from the fourth quarter to 4.10%.
Private student loans increased $3.8 billion compared to last year again driven by the acquisition of SLC and new originations including $500 million from the combined business in the first quarter new originations from the combined business in the first quarter.
In our financial supplement we refer to the acquired portfolio as purchase credit impaired or what I will refer to here as PCI loans which is the way GAAP characterizes a loan portfolio acquired with a balance of non-accretable discount designed to cover loan losses.
So as I mentioned losses on this PCI portfolio will flow to this non-accreting discount rather than through our P&amp;L.
And so as a result we'll give you measures of loan portfolio quality with and without PCI loans.
Yield on the private loan portfolio increased 222 basis points compared to last year and this increase in yield was primarily due to the addition of the SLC portfolio.
In terms of credit performance of the private student loan portfolio the 30-day plus delinquency rate was 72 basis points and this excludes the PCI loans.
We do need a charge off data for student loans with and without PCI loans the charge-off rate for student loans excluding PCI was 29 basis points on our Discover originated loans.
And you should keep in mind that this portfolio is quite young with very small portion of it in repayment.
Both credit metrics I just discussed decreased sequentially and this is a result of an increase in the denominator as we added roughly $500 million of new originations from the combined platform in our first quarter.
Shifting gears to the Payment Services segment pretax income was $6 million or 16% from the prior year to $43 million as you heard David say a record quarter for our Payment Services business as our PULSE business drove revenue from volumes much higher year-over-year.
2010 was a successful year for the Payment services business a record year for them and I think this quarter really represents a great start to what we hope is going to be another great year for our Payments business.
The effective tax rate for the company came in at 35% lower than recent quarters as we settled a few open returns at the state level and released associated reserves with those settlements.
Over time I would guide you back to an effective tax rate in the 38% to 39% area.
Our liquidity position remains very strong looking forward to second quarter of 2011 the next quarter out at about $5 billion is the highest maturity quarter over the next 12 months.
At the end of the first quarter our liquidity investment portfolio totaled $10.3 billion up slightly from the prior quarter but down from $12.7 billion a year ago.
Including these assets our overall contingent liquidity has increased $24.7 billion as we brought on additional multi-year conduit capacity from partner banks this quarter to begin to balance the flexibility and economics of various means of providing contingent liquidity.
As it relates to funding we're pleased with the strength that we've seen on the direct-to-consumer deposit business and remain opportunistic across not just this but all of our funding channels.
And just after the quarter ended we closed a $1 billion floating rate three-year ABS transaction priced at one month LIBOR plus 35 basis points.
This represented our largest non-TALF public transaction since October of 2007 and the tightest spread on a Class A floating rate tranche since the Master Trust was enhanced to be able to issue delayed issuances in 2007.
So I think it's a benchmark transaction and indicative of the help of that channel for us.
Proceeds of these transactions are going to reflected as I mentioned in our second quarter.
Our first-quarter capital account was very strong tangible common equity to tangible assets was 10.2%.
We're pleased to announce the increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.06 a share from $0.02 a share representing a full restoration of our dividend.
Even after this I think meaningful first step in returning capital to our shareholders.
Our capital account leaves us well-positioned to invest opportunistically across our existing businesses to consider opportunities that present themselves in the marketplace and return additional capital to our shareholders including through the use of overtime share repurchases.
So as David said this was a strong quarter in terms of profitability in particular credit performance and further progress in the strategy more on the strategy tomorrow.
But this quarter was also the fourth in a row which we've now exceeded our 15% return on equity target.
And clearly this quarter we're above 15% even excluding the benefit of the reserve release I talked about.
Tomorrow we're going to be going into a heavy focus on the plans and the strategies for the future and we'll be available to answer questions on other topics.
So now I look forward to seeing everyone tomorrow but I'm going to turn it back over to Christine for our question-and-answer period.
[Operator Instructions] First question comes from Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
I just wanted to dive in a little bit to the loan growth that you got in the quarter.
I know you talked about some of the strategies that you employed to do that.
Could you give us a sense as to how much balance transfer added to that and what other strategies were successful in the quarter? Sure Betsy.
I'd say the first thing I'd point you to is the sales growth.
That increased 7% year-over-year.
And if you take that higher sales growth and the lower charge-off I think those two things were a major factor.
Balance transfer continues to be much higher this quarter than it was ago.
But I think it's less of an impact sequentially in terms of any increase.
And I'd say we're going to talk more about this tomorrow but a big part of our focus is gaining market share and wallet share from existing customers leveraging our cash back bonus our service and our value.
And we obviously seen us do a lot more brand marketing sponsoring the Orange bowl et cetera.
So it's no one single thing but certainly I would not isolate balance transfer.
And then separately can we talk a little about the type of capital ratios that you're mentioning to over time.
I understand there's opportunities to acquire different kinds of portfolios.
Could you discuss what type of capital ratio you're looking to manage to eventually.
And I know you alluded to buybacks could you just give us a sense as to at what point you start giving buybacks as opposed to the more acquisitive activities.
Sure Betsy.
What we say is that we've been if anything consistent around the way we feel like we should be capitalized.
And we really haven't changed through this crisis what the feelings are on that.
Today we've talked about an 8% TCE target and obviously we have a tremendous amount of respect for the requirements around the regulatory targets.
But in terms of the way you think about loss absorbing capital solvency through the cycle all those sorts of things it's going to be in that 8% TCE range which does create at 10.2% some options and alternatives that we have available to us as we sit here today.
And then let me just add we'll talk more about this tomorrow at Investor Day.
But we would certainly prioritize profitable organic growth and then probably attractive acquisition targets.
And then after that we think about dividends which you obviously you saw us take action on now as well as buybacks.
We're not at the point of having a buyback program in place.
But it's certainly something we are likely to consider later this year.
Okay.
Because you could say you want to get to 8% over the course of the next couple of years or you have your eye on a couple of potential opportunities that if they don't pan out then you start to buyback stuff.
I'm just trying to understand how you -- what's the catalyst to getting to that 8% if organic and acquired growth isn't occurring at the pace with which you need to get down to 8% by a certain period of time.
I wouldn't want to give a set time frame at this point.
I mean we're very pleased that our ratios improved this quarter even after doing the largest acquisition we've ever done.
And so we take note of that.
But I don't think there's anything magic we're continuing to earn a very strong ROE even with the high levels of equity we're carrying right now.
But we're going to want to keep our options open we're going to evaluate this.
And over the course of the next few quarters I'm sure you'll see us take additional actions to hopefully move a little closer to that target.
Your next question comes from Michael Taiano from Sandler O'Neill.
Roy I apologize if I missed it but the $700 million discount on the SLC portfolio did you give the breakout between was it accretable or non- accretable? I did not Mike.
And I think it's a little bit of a blur here there maybe additional disclosure on that in our Q.
But I think we'll have to get back with you on that.
What's important perhaps and it might be worthwhile just taking a moment now that you teed this up is making sure everybody's comfortable with the three components that I outlined.
And the transaction itself was an 8.5% discount of $3.8 billion in receivables so we can all do the math on that we get about $325 million.
It broke into those three components: included $700 million of discount an asset of $100 million due to indemnification and a premium on the liability of $270 million.
So you're going to see all of it but the non-accretable portion that you just asked a question on find its way into income.
But the reality of course is that by absorbing those losses it shields the P&amp;L from that and is a form of accretion.
So I would almost sort of guide you to think about this almost as all of it one way or another finding its way back to the P&amp;L one in the form of deferring loss or deflecting losses from entering the P&amp;L the other's from systematically being introduced as cash flows systematically find their way through the quarters.
You got a lot more than you were looking for there.
I just wanted to make sure in abundance of caution that no one walks away confused about that $700 million.
I mean it sounds like it's really you take the $700 million and you have to subtract off the $100 million and $270 million and that will get you to the number of which some portion is a non-accretable discount.
That's right.
On the same sort of topic you mentioned the amount of loans that are in repayment.
Obviously those are probably most relevant from a credit standpoint.
Do you roughly have sort of the numbers in terms of both your organic portfolio as well as SLC in terms of how many of those loans have repayment at this stage? The largest portfolio is the Student Loan Corporation portfolio and about 75% of that is in repayment.
So we've got some good history there.
I'd say for our own loans it's a very low percentage have entered repayment.
Most of those loans have been acquired in the last three years.
Just last question just curious to what extent gas prices helped in terms of volumes this quarter.
I know that the big spike came towards the end but I think on a year-over-year basis it was still up pretty significantly.
Can you give us some color on that? Yes.
They did have some favorable impact on sales.
But we have been running about 5% or so each quarter.
And this quarter we jumped up to 7% maybe half of that increase could have been gas related.
But even if you back out the price of gas it was a bigger increase over this quarter versus the previous four quarters each of which have had good solid growth.
And I'd say further more in the last six weeks the growth has picked up even further.
And even that is not all the recent gas increase so we're seeing some pretty favorable trends on sales.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I had a question on the margin the net interest margin.
Roy you talked about the margin coming down going forward at a little bit of a faster rate.
And I was hoping you could just walk us through the pluses and minuses because I thought there might be -- is it just mix shift related or is it on a core basis x the acquisition? And then just on a question asked before on capital management I just was wondering that 8% TCE was that part of your -- was that included in your capital plan submitted to the Fed? Let me take them in reverse order.
There's obviously as much transparency there as there is here and that's always been our target.
So you should probably count on that being front and center in terms of the way we deal with all audiences in terms of setting TCE targets.
In terms of the yield I think that the components of this are the same rubric that we've sort of been dealing with really as we've sort of gone through this discussion over the course of the last five quarters.
There's a [indiscernible] default bucket that obviously post-CARD Act is not being reinitiated.
There are varying degrees of promotional balances that are being introduced to the program.
I think Betsy talked about that you heard David's comments regarding the use of promotional balances among other things to sort of grow the business there is the suppression.
I learned that word from you guys.
But the reduction in charge off interest that occurs as charge-offs get smaller.
The suppression that occurs within the finance charge line also gets smaller.
There are obviously repricing aspects due to CARD Act that began here this month and the month of March as we move forward that will inevitably put some pressure as repricings are pursuant to the CARD Act's specification for repricing accounts that would warrant that downward to their original point.
And then there's the usual construct of other forces in the market around revolve and non-revolve.
And so one of the things that we struggle with here a little bit just to be frank is giving you guys precise answers when there's I think initially when so many things were being governed and dictated by CARD Act it was a little bit more -- we could be a little bit more prescriptive around here are the various things that we're looking at.
But again obviously it's a rubric and it's a dynamic market.
And to be frank some of these things have gone at a rate and pace that actually has impressed us in particular the credit improvement that we've seen over the last quarters.
So as we look forward as I said I think that that nets to a headwind.
And we're sort of continuing to signal that so there's room for this thing to move downward but the reality is our business model doesn't need this level of finance charge income to be effective.
And so it's not a concern to David and I that we have that headwind pressure on us although it's something that we're going to continue to manage.
And I don't think we're going to be any more articulate in exactly what the magnitude of that's going to be but rather you're just going to see that headwind that net headwind from all those headwinds and tailwinds continue to be a force that we're dealing with.
One thing I might add to be helpful that I'll be mentioning tomorrow is we do expect that 8.5% to 9% is a more normal range for us and we're obviously above 9% today and so we do expect it to decline over time to that kind of range.
The next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> On the loan acquisition right now it's basically at about $14 million of income pretax for the two months.
So $21 million for the quarter and that's kind of a run rate balances stay down but you still got accretion coming in faster.
That's roughly right and we would expect to reaffirm that we expect about $0.09 accretion from that acquisition during the course of this year.
Inc.</strong> Just to clarify again what Sanjay was asking about could you give us some sense of how much intro balances increased in the first quarter of this year versus the fourth quarter of last year and how much you expect that to be increasing as part of that margin change? We're going to show statistic on that tomorrow.
But it's a little bit north of 10% now I think probably closer to 12% but we'll show you what we expect over time.
The next question comes from Brad Ball from Evercore Partners.
Roy in terms of the effective tax rate this quarter I think you guided to expect to gradually return back to the 38% to 39% level.
Does that mean that some of the benefits this quarter related to the state tax matters will carry into future quarters or will we jump back up? Yes that's right Brad.
This is the blessing that we all got from FIN 48 around states where basically it stays symmetrical the way you need to provide but once you resolve the matter the carry on that state goes down as well.
So I do think it takes a little pressure off the carry as well as the reserves that were settled apart of it.
Now it's not a big thing there are three states one happens to be a big state.
So it's maybe three out of 50 is not representative.
But it is a little bit of a relaxation on the future carry.
So thank you for bringing that question up.
That's why I guided a little lower to 38% 39% rather than 39% plus minus.
The next question comes from Brian Foran from Nomura.
When we think about revenue suppression or the finance charges billed but deemed uncollectible I mean are we at a normal run rate now or are we at a cyclical trough.
How should we think about where it's running relative to history.
And then also what would correlate with it further declining and/or increasing in the future? Would it just be the direction of delinquencies or should we watch something else? I would say we correlated it closely to charge-offs and at 5.9% charge-offs we're still on the high end.
So I would expect that this would still have some room to run in terms of some more benefit for reduced interest charge-off as the charge-offs stabilize.
But as Roy indicated that's one reason we expect the net interest margin to kind of decline a bit because we've already seen maybe a fair amount of that normalization already occur.
If I could ask one follow up --  funding cost? The LIBOR plus 30 or 35 ABS deal seems like most of your CDs are now being priced below 2%.
How should we think about future funding costs? And is that improvement baked into the 8.5% to 9% NIM guidance or our current funding markets more favorable than you would budget it for? Well I think David's 8.5% to 9% was more of an over- the-cycle.
So please exercise some caution if you drop that into the next three quarters.
I think there is a good tailwind and we have residual pools of liabilities that were created prior to the Feds sort of movement down to 25 basis points of Fed-effective target.
So we've got maturities over this year and next that are going to be a significant tailwind for us.
And the longer the rates stay where they are today Brian to your point LIBOR plus 35 all the deposits being raised under two.
That's going to be a nice piece of support for the net interest margin.
With that in mind then we sort of say that there are a lot of offsets to these other things that I sort of countered as headwinds.
But there really is a great tailwind coming though from the liability and funding costs.
The next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Crédit Suisse.
Thanks for the disclosure on the fee income.
I was wondering if you could kind of round that out a little bit because if you look at the revenues from interchange they're kind of flattish year-on-year and you've got some pretty significant growth in volume and even if you add in the transaction processing revenue still kind of in the three-ish percent area significantly slower could you kind of reconcile that see if there's either contras to that or other categories that aren't in there? The big contra is cash back bonus.
And we are doing more promotional cash programs and that's part of what's driving the sales activity and the receivables up so I'd say that's the biggest contra there.
So it's like the 5% promotions type thing? Or...
It's all of our programs.
But in particular yes.
The 5% programs and our other cash awards programs.
The next question comes from Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
David I was curious during the quarter we obviously got some proposed rules from the Fed around exclusivity and I wanted to know kind of what your thoughts are on that in terms of Discover.
I would say that we're closely following this.
As you know we are not a debit issuer ourselves so interchange is a pass through for Discover and for PULSE.
But I'd say that it seems like in the last month or two things may have gotten a little more uncertain.
And I wouldn't want to speculate on the full outcome whether there will be a delay or not whether there'll be a change on the proposed or not.
It would be pretty speculative.
I would say we're focused on being prepared for whatever the outcome is and in particular on the routing rules I am hopeful that regardless of the outcome that some large issuers may conclude that they are smart strategically whether required or not to maybe split their signature and PIN volume.
And if they start doing that I think PULSE is one of the networks that's well positioned to pick up some gains.
And so we're in particular focused on that.
Ultimately we believe in competition as the answer and we would like to be one of the competitors that provides that to the marketplace.
The next question comes from Rick Shane from JP Morgan.
One quick question.
When we look at discount at interchange revenue could you give us the breakout.
It does not increase nearly as much as the volume does on a year over year basis what's the disconnect there just so we know? You might have missed the earlier answer but it's really cash rewards program and cash back bonuses that contra revenue.
And we have certainly ramped up that program as we continue to gain share.
The next question comes from John Stilmar from Sun Trust.
Inc.</strong> Just a follow-up on the topic of spending velocity.
You have highlighted the spending velocity continues to exist past the February 28 reporting time line.
And I'm wondering how much of that is macro sort of improved economic activity how much of that is improved effectiveness of cash back marketing and potentially how much of that effectiveness potentially could come from several large issuers abandoning rewards based debit products.
I know that's not all since February 28 but it seems like momentum at least since last quarter on the velocity of card sales volume has picked up.
And I'm wondering if there's any sort of statistical or anecdotal or detailed evidence that we can kind of glom on to.
It's very difficult.
It's sort of proving how well your advertising is working.
I would say on the third hypothesis I don't think we've seen that yet.
We've seen some recent announcements on debit rewards cards going away and so on.
But in my opinion there's been very little actual impact to date.
So then you get down to what's our marketing and what's the economy.
And I believe that it is a mix.
I can't tell you whether there is 50/50 or what the number is but I can tell you we've certainly picked up our marketing spending.
We think that our spending is going further with some of our new things like the Discover Orange Bowl and some of our cash rewards programs that we think are giving us really good payback.
But certainly I think we're also picking up some -- the economy is also helping us as well.
Next question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just on credit for a second it seems just to be astoundingly good on the credit card portfolio delinquencies continuing to fall in a seasonally weaker period.
Can you talk about if you see any stabilization improvement at some point later this year how much better was this quarter's trend versus your expectations? And did any of that run through the income statement this quarter and sort of release suppression? And does that fall from here? Well I'd say we have been pleasantly surprised.
I think about a year ago we really started focusing on new loss of jobs as opposed to the overall unemployment rate.
We talked about that before but that seems to be a big driver that the credit is outperforming what one would expect versus the overall unemployment rate.
We think that this has some room to continue to normalize.
At some point it will start slowing down in terms of the improvement and I think it's a bit of an open question as to whether it kind of overshoots or goes to a new normal -- that's a lower level or not.
Clearly one of the things that's happened is we were very careful going into this crisis.
A lot of people got pushed over the edge from unemployment or housing prices.
And a lot of those losses though have already been recognized.
And so increasingly what we're left with is people that actually survived through this really tough perfect storm if you will.
And so we're seeing the backside of that now.
And frankly we've never had such a severe shock to the system.
And so it's a little bit hard for us to tell how good it's going to get on the other side.
And so we're pleased and we clearly are going to have some continued improvements through this year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Is it fair to say that at this point that you're not seeing any signs of the improvement slowing down and if you had to guess losses are probably going below the law of average? If you look at the sequential improvement it doesn't show any sense of slowing down yet.
But clearly it will start slowing down and I would expect that over the coming quarters the quarterly improvement on delinquency and charge-off rate will start to moderate -- will start to approach whenever the trough is.
This last question comes from Jason Arnold from RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> Just curious if you could give us some additional detail on the other income line.
You mentioned at onetime gain of around $16 million but were there other identifiable nonrecurring items? Yes Jason.
I think as you look at the first quarter $16 million is probably the one thing I would point you to.
Unfortunately when you look to the quarter that preceded it there's a few more in there.
I mean clearly other income back there had the influence of the -- I think we had a $28 million charge we took to position the federal loan portfolio to held-for-sale.
We had some other enhancements or things that were being run through there $10 million or $12 million.
So if you look at the swing it's not necessarily in this quarter and I think if you take the $16 million out of the $65 million in that other income number I'd say that's probably a good benchmark.
And maybe not to throw past out but I think the past is chock-full of a lot of issues that's a volatile line in particular fourth quarter of last year to first quarter of this year.
So $65 million excluding the $16 million onetime gain I think is a pretty good guide of the things that we would expect to see there on a recurring basis.
And there'll be a commentary around this in the Q that's out in a couple of weeks that supply additional detail.
That concludes the question-and-answer session for today.
I'll turn the call back to Craig for final remarks.
Thanks Christine.
And I want to thank all of you for your attention and your questions this evening.
And we're certainly excited about tomorrow's meeting and looking forward to seeing you there.
Have a good evening.
Thank you for participating in the Discover Financial Services First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This concludes the conference for today.
You may all disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that the conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Craig Streem.
Mr.
Streem you may begin.
Thank you very much John.
Good morning everybody and welcome to today's call.
As normal let me begin by reminding all of you that the discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2010 and in our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2011 both of which are on file with the SEC.
In the second quarter 2011 earnings release and supplement which are now posted on our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we've provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explained why these presentations are useful to management and to investors.
And we urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer and of course the Q&amp;A session at the end.
And now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Before the market opened this morning we reported all-time record quarterly earnings of $600 million or $1.09 per share driven by continued improvements in credit as well as outstanding fundamental performance in both of our business segments.
Our results this quarter reflect the Discover business model delivering exceptional results despite a slow and uneven economic recovery.
There are 2 items in our result this quarter that really stand out for me: first our 30-plus-day delinquency rate for the card portfolio reached 2.79% the lowest level at any point in our 25-year history; and second Discover Card receivables grew almost $650 million from the first quarter.
The very positive trends in delinquencies suggest that charge-offs will continue to decline while our reinvigorated marketing efforts are now resulting in cards receivables growth as well as accelerating sales and revenue growth.
We continue to have a very positive outlook for profitable receivables growth in all of our lending businesses and feel very good about the outlook for our Payments business which together with ongoing improvements in credit should lead to continued consideration of excess capital.
As a result on June 15 our board authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program reflecting the strength of our capital base and our intention to be responsible stewards of our shareholders' capital.
Looking at our results for this quarter I was very pleased with our 5% growth year-over-year in total revenues and receivables.
This contrasts sharply with what you see for most of the traditional banking industry which has been struggling to generate revenue and receivables growth.
We believe this speaks very well of our Direct Banking model versus the approach being taken by most of the banking industry.
Now let's take a look at some of the key drivers of our record results this quarter.
First in our Direct Banking segment Discover sales volume was 200 -- was $24.8 billion up 9% year-over-year.
An important contributor to the growth in sales has been providing greater value to our card members through rewards marketing programs increased brand presence and the benefits of increasing acceptance.
We are seeing healthy growth in our active and primary card base leading to gains in wallet share.
Also we significantly grew new accounts in the quarter.
Continuing the trend we have seen in previous quarters the number of active merchants grew 8% from last year as we continue to push towards rounding out our U.S.
merchant coverage.
The very positive trends in merchant activation and card usage have been in place for some time now and we expect them to continue contributing to future receivables growth.
Increases in balance transfer [BT] activity have also been a factor in our cards receivables growth.
Our emphasis with BTs has been to grow balances with our existing customers through spending and credit performance are well understood but we are also carefully using balance transfer strategies to originate profitable new account relationships.
In addition to wallet share gains and balance transfer activity receivables growth has also been positively impacted by trends in principal charge-offs with the card portfolio net charge-off rate decreasing almost a full percentage sequentially to 5%.
Regarding our non-card lending products we continue to be extremely pleased with the performance of both our Private Student Loan and Personal Loan businesses.
Mark will take you through key metrics for both products but both are tracking well against our growth and profit targets and also demonstrating very solid credit trends.
Turning to our Payment Services segment pretax income for the quarter was $43 million up 19% versus last year driven by strong performance principally in PULSE and Diners Club.
PULSE generated a 25% increase in the number of transactions to a record $1 billion debit transactions in the quarter.
This accounted for the majority of the revenue and earnings growth for the segment.
Diners Club reported solid dollar volume growth up 10% from the prior year and contributed to segment profitability by reducing operating costs.
Our third-party issuing business also posted 10% year-over-year growth in dollar volume.
Regarding developments with the Durbin Amendment our view is that many issuers have delayed signing new debit network deals while we all waited for resolution of the Tester bill and more clarity from the Fed on actual implementation.
We are hopeful that the Fed will act in a thoughtful and balanced way in issuing final regulations on June 29.
A major banking industry concern with the Durbin Amendment has been about the proposed level of debit interchange.
This has been closely watched by the banking industry but another requirement in the amendment prohibits exclusive debit network deals.
We believe a number of issuers will need to add another PIN debit network to their cards.
PULSE is an excellent platform and has capacity to accommodate potential customer needs.
Also during the quarter we announced the planned acquisition of Home Loan Center's operating and related assets from Tree.com.
HLC operates a direct mortgage origination business and the acquisition will help us build out our Direct Banking product suite.
Over the last year we spent a lot of time developing the right strategy and structure to enter the Direct Mortgage business and we believe this acquisition makes strategic and financial sense.
We look forward to working towards becoming a leader in this business as well.
In terms of the U.S.
economy it is apparent that we are still not on firm footing.
We have all seen recent weakness in certain economic indicators but our business continues to perform well.
Before I turn the call over to Mark I do want to acknowledge to retirement of Roy Guthrie.
Roy has been a trusted and valued colleague since he joined Discover 6 years ago as our CFO.
He played a critical role in our transition to becoming an independent public company in 2007 and built the finance organization to accomplish all that was needed for that process including establishing a very sound capital base and liquidity profile.
He helped us to successfully navigate through the shocks and uncertainties of the financial crisis of the recent years and has left us well positioned in virtually every element of his responsibilities.
We will miss him but we respect his decision to step back from active management and we wish him and his family the best for the future.
Let may now take the opportunity to formally introduce Mark Graf.
Those of you who didn't already know Mark had a chance to meet him by phone during our conference call regarding the planned acquisition of HLC assets.
He is a veteran financial services executive with over 20 years of leadership experience in banking and for the past 6 years in private equity.
He was Chief Financial Officer of Fifth Third Bank and prior to that served in senior financial and operating roles at a number of other leading regional banks.
He brings to Discover a very relevant set of skills and capabilities and I'm sure you're going to enjoy getting to know Mark and working with him over time.
Now I'm going to turn the call over to Mark Graf.
Thanks David.
Before I add my comments on our second quarter performance I'd like to take a minute to say that I'm really very excited to be part of the Discover team.
My first few months have validated my initial perspective that I was joining a great organization so I'm looking forward to the future and also very much to working with all of you.
Now onto business at hand.
Turning to the segments Direct Banking which includes cards student loans and personal loans earned $883 million pretax this quarter versus $386 million last year.
In terms of yield on the card portfolio we reported an 8 basis point decrease from the first quarter.
This compression wasn't unexpected as we've grown the level of lower yielding promotional balances and have continued to experience impacts from the CARD Act.
These combined impacts were partially offset by lower levels of interest charge-offs and as a result the overall trend in card yield continues to track above the level reflected in our card profitability model.
Our total portfolio yield declined 17 basis points due to the card yield impacts I just mentioned plus the effect of our strategic shift toward lower yielding but also lower charge-off student and personal loans.
Looking forward we expect some additional yield compression throughout 2011 due to these same factors but expect this to be partially offset by ongoing improvement in credit.
Second quarter net interest income was up $46 million year-over-year and $23 million from the first quarter.
Net interest margin for the segment was down 7 basis points sequentially driven primarily by card and student loans.
This was partially offset by lower funding and related costs as interest expense as a percent of loans decreased 10 basis points.
All in we expect net interest margin to be relatively stable throughout the rest of the year.
Other income was $22 million higher than the prior year.
The primary driver of the increase was the second -- was that in the second quarter of 2010 there was included a degree of overlimit fee charge-offs that bled into quarter after we ceased assessing overlimit fees in February of that year.
The current quarter also included transition services revenue related to The Student Loan Corporation and a small increase in the value of the federal student loans held for sale.
Other income includes discount and interchange revenue and as you can see in the financial supplement we are now giving you gross discount and interchange revenue as well as rewards cost.
So you don't have to wait for the Q to be issued to see this data.
This quarter discount and interchange revenue increased a bit ahead of our sales growth but this was offset by an increase in rewards.
This increase resulted from some enhancements to the program as well as increased customer engagement.
Continuing with expenses we've spent a bit more aggressively on the back of credit improvements as operating expenses increased $119 million over the prior year.
The primary components of the increase were as follows: first marketing spend was up year-over-year as we increased investments for new account acquisition; second higher professional fees related to recovering charged-off accounts and key technology and growth initiatives; third increased compensation partially related to the acquisition of SLC; and lastly other expenses were higher year-over-year because of increased legal and fraud reserves.
Approximately $18 million of the OpEx increase over the prior year came from the addition of SLC.
David's already discussed the trends in sales volume receivables and credit performance in our Card business so I'm going to shift to credit performance for our Personal Loan and Student Loan businesses.
In terms of Personal Loan credit performance loans greater than 30 days past due dropped 24 basis points from the prior quarter to 0.96%.
The personal loans net principle charge-off rate decreased by 122 basis points from the prior quarter to 2.88%.
Credit performance for the Private Student Loan portfolio also improved with a 30-day-plus delinquency rate at 55 basis points excluding the purchased credit-impaired loans.
The charge-off rate for student loans growth excluding the PCI loans was 51 basis points.
Let me call out one additional point in the Private Student Loan Credit metrics.
You'll see in our financial supplement that the reserve rate increased for student loans.
This was the result of enhancements we made to our reserve estimate based on the data we obtained in acquiring SLC.
The enhancements are specifically related to loans that may become uncollectible while the student is in school or during deferment and are intended to account for various events that do not become known until after the student entered the repayment phase.
Based on the positive credit performance trends and outlook primarily relating to our Card portfolio we released $401 million in reserves for the quarter.
Our business is delivering solid financial results.
Even if you exclude the reserve release we generated a return on equity of approximately 19%.
On the Payment side we had another quarter of double-digit pretax income growth versus the prior year.
PULSE continues to drive both revenues and volumes higher.
However we expect comparisons to be more difficult in the second half of this year due to the addition of a large bank PIN debit issuer in the second half of 2010 as well as a delay in new deal signings as issuers waited to see how Durbin will ultimately be resolved.
The second quarter effective tax rate came in more favorable than expected as we had a $23 million reversal of a tax valuation related to a previously realized capital loss when we sold the Goldfish business in the U.K.
We still believe our effective tax rate will be in the 38% to 39% area going forward.
Before I wrap up I want to touch on liquidity and funding.
Second quarter included the largest dollar amount of maturities for 2011 and our liquidity levels remain strong.
Our contingent liquidity ended the quarter at $24.3 billion which includes cash liquid investments conduit capacity our bank credit facility and capacity for Fed Discount Window.
We are pleased with the continued growth we've seen in direct-to-consumer deposits which now make up 43% of our funding base.
We like the funding costs and customer relationships which come with direct-to-consumer deposits but we'll continue to remain opportunistic across our other funding channels as well.
As a case in point just after the quarter closed we priced a $1 billion floating rate 2-year ABS business session at 1 month LIBOR plus 21 basis points which represented the tightest LIBOR floater spread since our de-linked trust was formed in 2007.
The proceeds from this transaction will be reflected on the third quarter balance sheet.
Our second quarter capital levels were very strong with our tangible common equity to tangible assets ratio reaching 11.2%.
At our Financial Community briefing last March we discussed a targeted TCE ratio of around 8% and the various alternatives for deploying excess capital.
With the addition of our recently announced share repurchase program we now have a more complete set of tools available to effectively manage excess capital for the benefit of our shareholders.
Overall we remain pleased with sales volume growth credit performance trends and our capital levels and we expect the first 2 factors to help drive card loan growth in the second half of this year.
That concludes my remarks so at this point I'll turn the call back to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A period.
John? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Sanjay Surigi (sic) [Sakhrani] from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Two questions.
One was I thought the credit card receivables growth was particularly encouraging this quarter.
I guess should we assume that we're kind of past the inflection point now and growth should persist through the second half? And maybe you could just talk about David the distribution of that growth how much of it came from existing customers versus new accounts? And then second question is is it fair to assume that most of the look-back on the repricing related to the CARD Act is now behind us? Sure.
Well yes we were pleased with the sequential receivables growth and yes we believe that suggests that we are still on track for getting to year-over-year growth in the second half.
And we have certainly increased our new account acquisition marketing spend put in place programs and we have some of the things that have been working for a while now like increased acceptance that are continuing to help grow not only sales but now receivables.
In terms of the CARD Act and in terms of the look-back specifically Sanjay I would say that we had just a very modest impact in the current quarter and going forward that impact would be de minimis.
Our next question comes from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Just a couple of quick questions.
So you saw 9% year-over-year spending growth I think that was a little bit higher than I had expected.
Can you talk about what some of the key drivers of that were? I know you David mentioned a little bit in the prepared remarks.
Was it really new customer acquisition existing customer spending more? Was it anything outside that like that higher gas prices? Well I think that the higher gas prices probably drive 2% to 3% of that if you assume no substitution and it probably is some.
We don't know how much.
But that really was in the place last quarter when we were up 6% year-over-year.
If you look at the sequential acceleration I would say the accelerated new account growth is probably the biggest single factor but the underlying trends are the acceptance the marketing the branding is all continuing to work very nicely for us.
Okay just one other question on credit.
Losses came in roughly 5% and I'm assuming we saw sequential improvement in each of the months.
So from what you're seeing in the portfolio can we move much lower? Are we starting to bottom out? How sustainable are we at these levels in terms of risk-adjusted returns at this point in the cycle? Well I'd say that we have not bottomed out yet.
If you look at the reduction in delinquency rates as I mentioned in my prepared remarks it will go lower from here.
How much lower we don't know.
We don't know exactly when or at what level it will bottom out but we certainly didn't see too many trends of it bottoming out if you look at the last quarter -- this last quarter's improvement.
And our next question comes from Craig Maurer from CLSA.
Two questions.
First could you discuss spending growth on if you can on a same-store sales basis? So trying to figure out excluding the addition of new merchants what you saw in terms of spend volume growth.
Secondly how do you see Capital One's acquisition or proposed acquisition of ING Direct and the asset generation capability or skills they might bring to that bank as threatening your own direct bank? Well I don't think I can give you much on same-store sales.
I would just say that we are -- we believe we're growing market share and it is coming from a combination of new merchants growth of existing merchants and it's also a combination of new customers and growth on existing customers.
So all of 4 of those factors are improving.
In terms of ING Direct we love Direct Banking.
I think I just see this as a validation that we're not the only ones who see value in Direct Banking.
To me Direct Banking is the future of banking.
And I think we are particularly well positioned because we are much more of a pure direct bank without the legacy branches and all that comes with it.
Our next question comes from Mike Taiano from Sandler O'Neill.
Just had a couple questions.
I guess the first on capital.
And obviously you guys announced the $1 billion share buyback.
But I guess if you just roll forward the model towards the end of 2012 and unless your loan growth is going to be a lot faster I think than you've suggested or if you're going to do a big acquisition it seems like your TCE could end up sort of north of 12% even with the share buyback.
And just was curious maybe Mark kind of helping us understand at what point would you also maybe reconsider about potentially upping that? And how do you think about it from the standpoint of SIFI [systemically important financial institutions] buffers and having dry powder for acquisitions? Sure Mike.
I'd be happy to.
I guess regarding the SIFI I'd start there.
We obviously don't have any clear guidance on the SIFI topic at this point in time.
We've got a lot of speculation and hearsay out there.
We're hopeful that the regulators will take into account the relative size and complexity differences between ourselves and the majority of the other institutions in the over $50 billion bucket.
What I can say definitively is that the current capital plan that we've got was developed with full transparency with our regulators and those same regulators provided us with a notice of non-objection to that plan.
So we were very very comfortable moving forward on that basis.
Regarding the size and timing of the program itself we took into account a couple of different factors I guess as we were looking at it.
I'd list our current capital position our ability to continue to generate excess capital and the current understanding of the likely direction of that evolving regulatory landscape we just talked about.
We sized the program at about 8% of our current market cap.
If you compare that to peer bank programs it's within the range but it's at the high-end of the range.
I don't have the numbers in front of me but I think the range is 2.5% to 8.5% roughly market cap as what we've seen folks do.
So we felt comfortable that from a signaling perspective to the market that that was the right place to be.
I would tell you we will continuously monitor the market conditions as well as all those factors I noted we evaluated when we established the program.
And if needed we can have discussions with our board and our regulators about adjusting the program upward if we see that as necessary.
Great.
And then just a follow-up on sort of what the competitive environment looks like.
And I think particularly Chase has gotten very aggressive in terms of cashback rewards programs of late.
I'm just curious given the widening out of risk-adjusted margins in the business with credit improving so rapidly how do you think about sort of where pricing is likely to head over the next 6 to 12 months? Do you think you could get back to some irrational pricing? Or do you think given the consolidation of the industry that the guys that are there likely to stay fairly rational at this point? Well I do expect rational competition.
As you say it's consolidated and I think the people who are left are fairly rational and profit-driven just as we are.
We certainly have seen competition be restored and marketing be restored in the industry.
But interestingly our attrition rates remain low in fact near historic lows so really have not seen an uptick in our attrition.
In new accounts we've picked up our marketing but we're seeing good response rates anyway.
And so -- and then you're seeing in our results sales and receivables showing good solid gains despite the higher level of competition.
So overall my read on a macro basis is that both supply and demand have recovered at about the same rate with consumers being more receptive and with more being available from competition.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Two questions one on the account growth.
Can you give us a sense of the composition how much of that was BTs? And are you seeing the same type of response rate as you were pre-crisis or has there been an improvement beyond what you were experiencing before? Well without giving specifics I would say we've been pleased both with our response rates holding up and maybe even improving a little bit even as we ramp up mailings and Internet marketing and so on which is a great sign.
I've also been pleased with the activation usage and the particular sales usage of these new accounts.
And so we've been very focused on -- sometimes you get an account that only does the balance transfer but we've been very focused on using that as a tool with ultimately getting customers who spend and earn their Cashback Bonus and contribute to the sales gain and those metrics all look very good.
Okay so I would think that given Internet usage as well that maybe your cost to acquire is flat to potentially down.
Are you reinvesting in the customer service end to get the usage rate up? Is that the right way of thinking about how the business is being run right now relative to maybe what it was pre-crisis? I would think more of about the improvement in credit giving the ability and credit returning to more normal levels quickly is giving us some flexibility to increase more in both activation of current customers as well as more acquisition of new customers.
And we've taken steps you saw for instance the Cashback Bonus line was up quite a bit this quarter.
I mean that's partly because we marketed it more.
We're seeing more customers engage in it more we're having less breakage we're having more spending at the higher tier because the spend per account is higher.
So I think we are looking across the portfolio of marketing and investments and getting some nice gains both from current and new customers.
Okay.
And then second question is on Durbin impact.
David you mentioned a little bit about what the opportunity is to the degree we go with non-exclusives.
Could you give us a sense as to how much extra capacity you think you have in your PULSE network? Can you talk about how quickly you think you could start new relationships up in the event that the legislation went that way? And then lastly could you talk a little about more holistically about what you think the Durbin impact is as we head into third quarter for the various components of your income statement? Well I think there's a lot we don't know right now.
Hopefully we'll learn a bit more next Wednesday when the Fed comes out with their guidance and one of the important factors is not just what is the guidance but what is the timing.
And I would say we have -- our PULSE network is highly scalable.
We have taken actions to build capacity in advance of potential demand because we were afraid we might not have time to ramp it up as quickly.
And if we need to add even more capacity we'll add even more.
But we are positioned so that even if it was substantial that we would be able to we think accommodate a lot of that substantial volume increase should it be needed.
Are you talking about multiples of what you're doing today or...
I wouldn't want to speculate on exact amounts but it could be substantial for us but we don't know how quickly and we don't know if it will really occur or not.
We need to see the final rules and there's going to be a lot of competitive dynamics that play out probably over the next year or 2.
Sure.
And then is there anything that would lead you add to the debit offerings that you have to date including more in the way of signature based on how Durbin comes out? Well today we are the -- only the third -- there are only 3 signature debit products out there in the world we have the third but it's tiny in terms of percentage.
So we would certainly be poised if that should be needed as well.
Certainly most of industry observers are thinking more of that it's going to be one signature one PIN sufficient.
But should that not be the case we would certainly -- we've got some maybe unique options that we would need to look at to help fulfill our customer needs.
Okay.
So you've got flexibility either way it goes? Yes.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Brian Foran from Nomura.
I guess do you think delinquencies can keep diverging from unemployment? And if delinquencies are at a 25-year low should we expect losses to be at a 25-year low by the end of this year? Well I would say that certainly losses should continue to fall.
Delinquencies are not as good of a predictor of bankruptcies and I don't think bankruptcy filings are not anywhere near a 25-year low in the economy.
So that is maybe a factor that could hold things up a bit.
As we’ve talked about on earlier calls we do think that the new job loss right now is probably having more of an impact because we have increasingly already recognized the losses from the longtime unemployed and from the people that are significantly underwater on their houses and so we think that is why it's diverging.
If you look at our current delinquencies relative to new job losses it's not as far off the curve as if you look at the overall unemployment rate which reflects a lot of people that have been unemployed for quite a long time.
I apologize if I missed this but could you give us a core expense number for the quarter? I know you – I guess you didn't want to break out some of the individual items but what kind of run rate should we think about going forward? Well I think if you look at the run rates going forward I'd guide you to our financial summary and I'd point out a couple of different points.
The employee comp and benefits line that $230 million we're showing there for the quarter is probably a reasonable range proximity for what you should be looking at going forward.
The additions in the primary quarter were really due to growth initiatives and the impact of SLC where we had only 2 of 3 months in the prior quarter.
Marketing and business development at $124 million for the quarter.
I would guide you back to the previous 2 quarters and say going forward I'd be looking at something slightly higher more in the range of those prior 2 quarters.
Everything else I would say is pretty accurate for modeling purposes in terms of what you should be looking at.
Our next question comes from Bill Carcache from Macquarie.
I have first a big picture question for David.
David can you share your thoughts on the prepaid opportunity in the industry and whether you see that in any way serving as a growth driver for Discover in the future? And then a second question on student loan balances are you still targeting $1 billion net receivables growth in 2011? And can you clarify what the growth outlook is both with and without PCI loans and also is the rate at which the PCI loans decreased this quarter a reasonable proxy for how quickly they'll run off going forward? Okay.
I'm not sure I could remember all those questions.
But in terms of the first one -- and Mark maybe you could.
The prepaid is already a nice network opportunity particularly in PULSE but also a growing amount of Discover network third-party volume is actually prepaid and we work with a number of the market leaders in the prepaid space.
So that's contributing for instance to our 25% year-over-year PULSE growth in particular.
And then we also issue some prepaid cards some of our rewards are delivered through them.
And in the future we're going to continue to define profitable parts of the prepaid space.
We don't think everything will necessarily be profitable in that space but we do think that it is clearly a growing market opportunity and one that we will participate in in a growing way over time.
Mark? With respect to Student Loan growth I think we're still comfortable with that plus or minus $1 billion number for the year and I think the other question was related to PCI loans this quarter and what's going on there.
Is that $1 billion with and without – the $1 billion does that include PCI loans when we look at the growth in 2011 or is that without? Bill maybe it's best if we clarify that...
Okay no.
Yes that's fine.
And then the last part of that was whether the rate at which the PCI loans decreased this quarter if you kind of view that as a reasonable proxy for how quickly they'll run off going forward? Yes I would say the overall expected cash flows from the PCI loans increased very modestly so they're performing pretty much right in line with our expectation so the impact on yield and amortization is immaterial.
So it's probably a pretty good assessment.
Our next question comes from John Stilmar from SunTrust.
This is Jason Freuchtel stepping in for John Stilmar.
We've seen in the monthly trust data elevated dollar recoveries recently how should we think about longevity of recoveries helping loss improvement? Do you think there's going to be a near-term inflection point? Or is this is a longer-term phenomenon? I would say that right now we have an awful lot of inventory because of the last 3 years' elevated charge-offs.
And also as some people have gotten back to work and have an ability to repay some of their loans that's been helpful.
I wouldn't expect any major movement necessarily one way or another.
Over time I would expect it to eventually start to diminish as we work through some of that inventory.
And obviously we're producing fewer charge-offs today at 5% to recover against in future periods.
Our next question comes from Mark DeVries from Barclays.
With your reserves currently over -- a little over 5% and 2Q charge-offs at 4.42% and as you indicated still trending lower and basically reserves at above kind of what would be the implied run rate for the next 12 months charge-offs.
With that as backdrop can you help us think about how you understand what the appropriate level of reserves are at this point? Yes I would say we're very comfortable with the current level of our reserve profile.
Obviously we've entered uncharted territory here in terms of credit performance as I think we've indicated a few times on the call and we continue to watch those developments intently.
But I would say from our perspective the reserving methodology is pretty heavily prescribed by the SEC and we're making sure we follow that to the letter of the law.
So we feel comfortable with the reserves given where we sit right now.
Is it reasonable to assume though if charge-offs continue to trend lower we'll see more reserve releases? Absolutely yes no question about it.
And our next question comes from Jason Arnold from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> It was also great to hear about adding to wallet share and new card members.
Just curious if you could talk about marketing and rewards expenses going forward in a little bit more detail just given that there seem to be more opportunities to gain traction with consumers and potentially gain market share.
Do you expect this to lead to somewhat higher expenses here than what you've talked about in the past? Well certainly our Cashback bonus and Rewards line is significantly higher now than it was a year ago and some of that is because of the higher sales itself but even the rate relative to sales is elevated.
And I do expect that to continue.
The higher level of engagement marketing some of the factors I went through earlier we do expect to continue.
I don't expect it to keep rising at the rate that you've seen it an acceleration like you've seen in the last year.
But I think we've sort of had a little bit of a step function up to a new higher run rate as we've enhanced our program and are getting great customer response.
And with respect to the marketing expense overall I would say that again this quarter's number's probably a little bit light for what I would be expecting going forward.
I'd point you back to the last 2 quarters previous to this one and something in that range is really what you should be looking for from us going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay so it sounds pretty consistent with what you've talked about in the past just spend a little bit more to make a little bit more.
Is that a fair assessment? That's right.
And our marketing expense will vary quarter-to-quarter.
So for instance our first quarter we had some of our larger sponsorships with college football Orange Bowl hockey this past quarter.
So it can be a bit up and down and this was a little bit down even though the sales results are high that partly reflects what we said last quarter.
Our next question comes from Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
David obviously some of the economic data we've seen over the last month or 2 has signaled some moderation.
Was curious if you've seen that in your spend trends if you strip out your market share gain going into June? Well I really can't strip out the market share gains because competitors report after us and we do feel we're making market share gains if I look at retailer sales.
But what I'd say is I've looked very closely at the last couple weeks to see if we've seen any moderation as we started to see some of those lower confidence numbers in others.
And the good news is that I'm not seeing it in my numbers at this point.
Our sales gains a year-over-year are continuing to hold.
And do you attribute that to anything? Or is it more sort of a lag issue or… I mean our -- when customers use their card it posts within days so I don't think we would expect any lag issue unless there's a -- customers haven't reacted yet.
I would certainly like to think we continue that momentum and I'm just really pleased with our marketing efforts and how our customers are responding.
Our next question comes from Rick Shane from JPMorgan.
I just wanted to delve a little bit more into promotional balances.
At Investor Day you talked about migrating from a Q1 level about 12% ultimately to a normalized level of about 15%.
Mark mentioned balances were up or promotional balances were up.
I was just curious how far along you are from that 12% to 15% migration how quickly you think you'll hit that target.
And then finally given what's going on competitively is there any reason to think that that target rate may move up or down that 15% long-term target? I'd say it could move up or down but right now I think that's still a good a pretty good number.
We're not at 15% yet but we do expect it to modestly move higher as we -- when we put on new accounts for instance you tend to have a higher percentage of promotional balances.
And so as that mix of new accounts grows you would expect it to normalize more to that order magnitude 15% range.
And again is that a pretty quick migration given what's going on competitively? I mean is that something you think you'll see that target rate in the next couple quarters? I would say just looking at the numbers more specifically right now that number is sitting at about 12% give or take 11% or 12% in that range.
So we've got some room to grow to get to that 15% level.
We kind of look at BTs as a very cost-effective way to generate new receivables and increase our engagement and our relationship with our customers so we're pretty comfortable with them in that range and I would say that the ultimate level you're looking at probably isn’t a bad place to be settling in.
Our next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Just following up on those questions.
The spending of your existing customers or older customers are you seeing any mix change within the quarter or since the quarter in terms of gasoline or discretionary purchases? It sounds like… No I think the gasoline impact was about the same this quarter as it was last quarter and we continue to see larger gains with the more creditworthy individuals and we're continuing to see transactors increase sales faster than revolvers.
But as you can see from our growing revolving balances that we're now seeing those gains be really kind of across the board and that's why you're seeing us return to receivables growth.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And there was a question earlier about the look-back with the CARD Act but when you're issuing 18-month 0% teasers how do you avoid having some of effect on existing accounts from that? I'm not sure I understand the question.
The CARD Act look-back doesn't have anything to do with new promotional balances being put on.
Rather it had to do with looking back on repricings that took back -- that took place in past periods to see if we are able to cure people to lower rates.
Inc.</strong> But aren't you obligated to compare rates on new accounts to existing accounts prospectively? No.
Inc.</strong> So it's really just the repricing after the rule change and that’s it.
If I understand you correctly yes that's correct.
We continue to be allowed to price the way we feel is appropriate.
We just have significant restrictions on being able to change those rates for new accounts after the accounts are booked.
Our next question comes from Brad Ball from Evercore.
Another follow-up on the promo balances.
Did you say what portion of the growth in the quarter were promotional balance-driven? We didn't.
But I think if you look at our yield you'd have to conclude that it wasn't -- that we saw growth in -- we didn't just see growth in promo balances we saw growth in full-rate balances as well.
Right.
It'd be what was it 8 basis point decline in the yield you're saying was not entirely driven by new promo balances? Yes not at all.
If you kind of decompress that a little bit I guess it’s a couple different things.
On the CARD Act side you have the obviously the run-off of the default in the cash balances and then you also have the increased use of the promotional balances.
And I would say the CARD Act piece of that was disproportionately larger.
Our next question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I also want to talk about promo for a second.
I recall -- if I recall correctly you made a change a couple years ago where you amortized balance transfer fees into interest income now.
Is that helping support the yield given your pickup in balance transfer activity? Or are those amortized over such a long period it wouldn't have an effect on a quarter-to-quarter basis? I would say that that is the accounting methodology we follow and the impact is relatively immaterial.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just more broadly on the same topic of the yield the other part of that slide that I thought was interesting at Investor Day was the default rate balances and how high they continue to be despite how strong the credit trends have been.
Have those started to tick down at all yet? Are we still looking at some potential card yield compression over the next year or so as that falls to a more normal level? I would say we've seen some modest reduction there but not dramatic reduction there.
In the near term I'd expect some relative stability in the margin because the CARD Act impact the increased user promos are being heavily offset by the lower levels of charge-offs as well as improvements in our cost of funds.
Over a longer-term horizon clearly there will be impacts from those and I'd point you back to our Investor Day discussion for March in terms of longer-term expectations for margin.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Bob Napoli from Piper Jaffray.
David just wanted -- hoping you could give some update on your thoughts on your movements on the mobile -- on your mobile strategy with Isis being more open.
And are you still -- how closely are you still working with Isis and where do you think -- there's obviously announcements every day with Visa and American Express coming out with -- as well as MasterCard.
Where do you stand? And what direction do you think this all goes from here? Well I remain bullish on the potential for mobile payments and we continue to be very active not only with Isis but also with many other efforts throughout the industry.
I think importantly we continue to expand mobile-enabled terminal deployment throughout the country and our Zip has very broad representation in terms of acceptance on terminals.
We also have passed the 500 000 account mark in terms of cards that have Zip and we have really focused our efforts on some of the early adopters and people who have requested cards.
So we continue to make progress on a lot of fronts with it.
But I think sitting here today it's going to be tough to pick necessarily the winners and losers but I am convinced that it will gradually gain traction and be important for us and our customers.
We have no further questions at this time.
I will now turn it back to you Mr.
Streem for closing remarks.
Thanks John.
Thanks to all of you for your interest and for your questions this morning and of course please feel free to get back to us with any follow-ups.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the 3Q 2011 earnings conference call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Craig Streem.
Mr.
Streem you may begin.
Thanks John.
Thank you very much.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's call.
Let me begin by reminding you that the discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2010 and in our Form 10-Q for the second quarter 2011 both of which are on file with the SEC.
In the third quarter 2011 earnings release and supplement which are now posted on our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we've provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and to investors.
And we urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's call.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer and then a Q&amp;A session of course.
During the Q&amp;A period it would be very helpful if you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up so we can make sure that everyone is accommodated.
Now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Good morning and thanks everyone for joining us.
Before the market opened this morning we reported record quarterly earnings of $649 million or $1.18 per share.
This was driven by continued improvements in credit and positive growth trends led by the re-emergence of year-over-year growth in Discover Card receivables.
All in we generated an ROE of 33% this quarter but even excluding the reserve release our ROE would have been well above our 15% ROE target.
I want to begin by commenting on 2 principal highlights of our results this quarter the first of which is solid growth both in Discover Card sales volume and receivables and the second is credit performance.
Discover Card sales volume reached an all-time high of $26.3 billion beating our previous quarterly record by over $1 billion.
This represented a 9% increase from last year and the growth came from both new and existing customers.
Importantly we are seeing attrition rates that are the lowest we've seen in over 10 years in our card member base coupled with an increase in average card member spending which has contributed to the growth in card member sales.
Sales momentum is also being driven through the effectiveness of our rewards programs and our increased brand presence reflected in sponsorship deals such as the NHL Six Flags and the Discover Orange Bowl as well as our marketing initiatives with company like Amazon.
We did see a brief slowdown in spending just prior to quarter end when Hurricane Irene hit the East Coast but during the first 3 weeks of September we have seen volume growth return to levels that were consistent with most of our third quarter.
Year-over-year growth in Discover Card receivables resulted from strong sales volume including spending growth from the revolver segment of our portfolio as well as from increased balance transfers.
Sequentially Discover Card sales grew $1.4 billion this quarter and Card receivables grew by $1.2 billion while balance transfer and cash advance volume was essentially flat.
Given our continued emphasis on increasing wallet share we're pleased that the population of our primary card users grew 8% over last year with sales growth from this group of 12%.
Additionally we've seen 12 consecutive months of year-over-year sales growth from our revolver segment of our base.
We believe our efforts to increase merchant acceptance have also contributed to these positive volume trends as our card members are increasingly taking advantage of our growing coverage.
Our number of net active merchants grew 7% versus last year.
A second highlight this quarter is the continuing improvement in credit as our delinquency rate in card reached a 25-year low at 2.43%.
And for the first time since 2007 our card net charge-off rate dropped below 4% to 3.85%.
I'm really proud of our efforts in credit risk management collections and marketing that have produced such strong results even while U.S.
unemployment has remained above 9%.
Moving on to our other lending products.
I'm also very pleased with the performance of private student loans and personal loans which together now represent $7 billion in receivables.
Both continue to demonstrate very strong credit characteristics and strong organic growth.
Turning to our Payment segment.
Total volume this quarter was up 15% from the prior year which is among the most robust growth rates of our network peers and was driven by strong transaction growth in our PULSE debit network.
Since the Fed announced its final debit rules in June we've been adjusting to the new environment and have been responding to a substantial number of RFPs for new business.
Our well-established national PIN debit network has acceptance parity with competitors and provides competitive pricing and outstanding service.
We are in active discussions with issuers about new PIN debit relationships to help participants comply with the final rules set by the Fed and we're working hard to help position issuers to be ready for when the routing rules take effect in April of 2012.
To wrap up we are really pleased with our results this quarter particularly with our strong sales volume growth loan growth trends and our tremendous improvement in delinquency and charge-off rates.
While there continues to be weakness in the U.S.
economy it's not getting in the way of our ability to deliver profitable growth and generate appropriate returns for shareholders while serving customers well.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
I'm fighting a bit of a summer cold today so if I cough in the middle here please forgive me.
I'll begin my comments today by focusing on Direct Banking which includes cards student and personal loans.
Segment earned just over $1 billion pretax this quarter versus $395 million in last year's third quarter.
These numbers include reserve releases of $359 million this quarter and $187 million in the same period last year.
In terms of interest yield on the card portfolio we reported a 40 basis point decrease from last year.
The principal components of the decrease are the CARD Act impact on higher price default balances as well as a rise in promotional volumes.
These were partially offset by lower interest charge-offs.
When you look at our total portfolio yield it decreased 33 basis points from the prior year due primarily to the card yield decline which was partially offset by the impact of the sale of $1.5 billion in low-yielding federal student loans as well as an increase in both loans outstanding and yield on our personal loan portfolio.
Net interest income increased $90 million or 8% versus the prior year driven by asset growth lower charge-offs of accrued interest and the benefit of lower funding costs.
On a net interest margin basis we had 10 basis points of expansion as the lower interest charge-offs and lower funding costs more than offset the yield compression that I just mentioned.
Our funding mix includes some higher-priced time deposits that will continue to roll off into 2012.
These were originated 2 to 3 years ago in a higher rate environment and are expected to be replaced by lower-cost borrowings through our 3 main funding channels as we expect to continue to benefit from the Fed's current monetary policy over the coming quarters.
For these reasons the net interest margin will be fairly stable for the fourth quarter.
However the addition of $2.5 billion in student loans from Citi will result in some margin compression.
I would remind you that while private student loans have lower yields than our credit card portfolio they should also have meaningfully lower loss rates.
Other income was $15 million lower than in the prior period.
You may recall that we recognized a $20 million gain in the third quarter of 2010 as we exited the Golden Key investment.
Consumer fees decreased as improving delinquencies resulted in lower late fees.
Net discount and interchange revenue was higher reflecting increased volumes partially offset by a higher rewards rate than the prior year.
Moving to other expenses.
We have continued to reinvest in the business for growth on the back of substantial credit improvement in our card portfolio.
Operating expenses increased by $74 million over the prior year but were just slightly up sequentially as I had guided on the second quarter call.
Approximately $21 million of the year-over-year increase comes from expenses related to the December 31 purchase of The Student Loan Corporation from Citi primarily in the compensation and professional fees line items.
Let me take you through some of the primary components of the remaining $53 million year-over-year increase in operating expense.
First compensation costs were up as we further enhanced our underwriting and early stage collections capabilities and made key staff additions in risk management.
These investments have been paying off for us in our credit performance and continue to provide an important competitive distinction.
We have also grown technology staff as we integrate new businesses and enhance our Direct Banking platform.
Second professional fees were higher due to investments in growth initiatives.
And finally other expense was higher due to an increase in fraud and network acceptance initiatives.
Total operating expenses should once again be relatively flat in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
We continue to be comfortable with our long-term expense target for the Direct Banking segment of 4.5% of average receivables.
As you can see in our numbers this quarter even with the incremental investments for growth we came in just above that 4.5% level.
Before I turn to Payment Services let me comment briefly on receivables growth and credit performance for our Direct Banking segment.
David already covered card receivables growth so I want to focus on card credit.
The over-30-day delinquency rate was 2.43% down 36 basis points sequentially.
The net principal charge-off rate declined 116 basis points sequentially to 3.85%.
The significant improvement in delinquencies and the prospects for future credit performance led to a $359 million reserve release this quarter.
Going forward we are unlikely to continue releasing reserves of this magnitude given the present economic uncertainty the all-time low delinquency rate and the likelihood of continued receivables growth.
These factors suggest that we will start building loan loss reserves during 2012.
Receivables in our personal loan product were up $732 million from the prior year.
We continue to focus on thoughtful measured growth in this asset class by leveraging our established underwriting competencies.
Personal loans greater than 30 days past due dropped 11 basis points from the prior quarter to 85 basis points.
The personal loans' net principal charge-off rate decreased by 15 basis points from the second quarter to 2.73%.
The improvement continues to be driven by risk initiatives we've put in place over a year ago as well as growth in the portfolio.
We continue to achieve strong organic loan growth in private student lending complemented by the student loan acquisition we closed last December.
Private student loans were up $3.8 billion compared to last year.
This growth is a combination of the loans acquired in the SLC acquisition and $1 billion of organic growth as we leverage the acquired platform.
Turning to credit performance in student loans the 30-plus-day delinquency rate rose 25 basis points sequentially to 80 basis points excluding the purchased credit-impaired loans acquired in the SLC transaction.
The charge-off rate for student loans again excluding PCI loans was 62 basis points an increase of 11 basis points from the prior quarter.
The increase in both of these metrics is due to seasonality as recent graduates enter repayment after spring graduation.
Typically we also see a similar effect following December graduation.
The student loan charge-off rate remains below our target that we outlined in our profitability model at our Investor Day briefing in March.
You may have seen the U.S.
Department of Education data out earlier this month showing increases in student loan charge-offs.
We believe the vast majority of the increase is shown in their data stems from federal student loans and loans made to students attending for-profit schools.
We do not originate federal loans and with very limited exception we do not extend loans to students at for-profit schools because of their generally higher loss characteristics.
In addition the vast majority of our portfolio has cosigners and we believe that our underwriting practices are more rigorous than typically seen with federal student lending.
As we discussed in our Investor Day we feel great about the expected returns on our Direct Banking products and our credit figures this quarter continue to support those assumptions.
Turning to the Payment Services segment.
We increased pretax profit by 3% year-over-year to $38 million.
Revenues increased more slowly than PULSE's transaction growth year-over-year due to higher incentives and a small write-off of a minority investment in a payments company.
Expenses are running somewhat higher than the prior year as we made a number of infrastructure investments to add capacity and functionality prior to the implementation of the new interchange and routing rules.
We achieved double-digit percentage growth in transaction dollar volume across all 3 of our networks year-over-year.
Diners Club grew 17% with a significant portion of the growth from the weak dollar and the third-party issuing business achieved 11% growth.
PULSE volume expressed as number of transactions was up 8% year-over-year as comparisons became more difficult with the addition of a large issuer in the third quarter of 2010 as well as the loss of volume from one customer in this quarter.
Before I discuss capital I want to touch on liquidity and funding.
Our contingent liquidity ended the quarter at $26.3 billion.
This includes cash liquid investments conduit capacity our bank credit facility and capacity at the Fed discount window.
We have increased our liquidity to  accommodate the $2.5 billion in additional private student loans I mentioned earlier.
We continue to experience lower funding costs in this low-rate environment and we are likely to enjoy a funding tailwind into 2012.
Direct-to-consumer deposits now make up 44% of our funding and represent a stable source of funds that comes with customer relationships.
As you know we opportunistically access our other funding channels as well evidenced by the $800 million floating rate 3-year ABS transaction we priced last week at 1  month LIBOR plus 21 basis points.
The proceeds from this transaction will be reflected on the fourth quarter balance sheet.
Before I wrap up I want to touch on our strong capital position.
With tangible common equity to tangible assets of 11.6% we have a higher ratio than most large financial institutions.
Our strong capital base has allowed us to take advantage of unique opportunities for growth while beginning this quarter we began returning capital to our shareholders through share buybacks.
During the third quarter we used almost $200 million of our capital to repurchase roughly 1.5% of our outstanding shares.
We expect to continue to act on our commitment to deploy excess capital via a mix of dividends share repurchases and growth initiatives.
Overall we remain pleased with another quarter of record earnings led by credit improvement and the re-emergence of year-over-year growth in Discover Card receivables.
That concludes my prepared comments.
So at this time I'll turn the call back to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A period.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I have one question for David and one for Mark.
David obviously you mentioned there's still a lot of uncertainty on the economy yet your numbers just don't seem to indicate it's that bad for you.
Could you just talk about this dynamic and specifically kind of what you've seen more recently and what you're expecting in the future just near term? And then Mark obviously the net interest margin expansion this quarter was positive and you talked about it being flat in the fourth quarter.
I was just wondering if you could just elaborate a little bit more on the funding benefits you have into next year.
Specifically how much of those higher cost deposits are refinancing in 2012? Sure Sanjay.
I certainly remain quite concerned about the economy and I wish we were seeing a more rapid recovery.
But as you say if you look at our numbers I think increasingly we're past a lot of worst pain if you will and I think one of the things that's happening out there is there's some structural unemployment.
And that's -- as we get further and further from when the storm originally hit I think many of our customers who didn't write off early on are -- have increasingly deleveraged.
They're fine with their jobs and they may not be as concentrated with the people that are most underwater on homes.
So I think that what you're seeing is a very uneven recovery.
And by focusing on the prime segment and being careful over the last several years it will resonate well [ph].
And we have a few unique things with our business such as the increasing acceptance that I've [indiscernible] sales and beget more of a share of sales from our customers.
Mark? Sure.
Sanjay with respect to the funding tailwind the biggest component of that's going to be in the brokered CD book.
And I don't have specifics in front of me but for rough details there's somewhere around call it $3.5 billion roughly that matures in 2012 and the rate pickup on that assuming the rate environment remains relatively constant is somewhere north of 200 basis points.
Our next question comes from John Stilmar from SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question for you with regards to seeming activity that there's been with regards to teaser rates.
Specifically August was a pretty high month.
And I was wondering if you could share with me just your experience with regards to those that have rolled out of previous teaser offers and their retention as customers as you've talked about record-low attrition rate.
Does that also pertain to those customers? And how does that compare to history? And then I have a follow-up after that.
Well this is David.
I can't comment specifically on attrition of expired promo rates but I would just say if you look at our attrition rates in total you'd have to conclude that there's -- we're doing a pretty good job of hanging on to our customers hanging on to receivables and that's one of the reasons we're growing is we're not losing people out the other side.
In terms of teaser rates I think that there are more this year than there were last year but a lot of that is driven by the extraordinarily low cost of funds.
And so the profit breakevens for putting in place teaser rates is attractive more attractive than it has been probably at any point in history.
So does that answer the question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if I was to summarize your views it's basically your -- the customers especially relative to history for your channel when they roll off of teaser you're actually able to retain them more so than you probably were in the past.
Is that fair? Well I'm only commenting on attrition rates in total.
But certainly I would expect that if we had unusually high attrition rates or promo rates that it would have impact that overall attrition rate.
And as I say we've -- we're at the best place that we've been on attrition as far as I can ever remember.
Yes this is Mark.
The other thing I would point out is that we target a great deal of our BT activity toward our existing portfolio customers folks who are already chosen to do business with us.
So it's not activity where we're actually trying to attract somebody new to the vein and get them to stick around after the fact.
The other thing I would say is we're pretty disciplined around our BTs.
We've got some very strong metrics around the returns ultimately on our marketing spend of which BT is we use one component.
And I would tell you if we didn't see the kind of returns we were looking for out of that activity we wouldn't be following the level of BT growth you're seeing out of us now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then the follow-up David you've talked a lot about acceptance over the prior quarters.
I'm wondering if you can give us any sort of numerical quantification of saying how much of growth has come from this new acceptance at least in the top line.
Because you're spending and balance growth trends have both been relatively impressive and you keep pointing towards acceptance growth as being one of the primary catalysts.
I'm wondering if you could provide us with a little bit more specificity around how much acceptance has really driven the top line for you.
Is it really just the 7% number and it's up to us to kind of guess how much of that is inside of the balance growth or benchmarking it versus others? Just wondering if you could kind of help provide a little bit more context to those statements.
Well sure.
I would say it's difficult to tease out the precise impact because I think it all -- different synergies and how much of it was rewards engagement how much of it was the service levels how much of it was the increased acceptance.
And one of the things is as our acceptance increases it actually we think improves our sales of those same customers with places that we were already accepted.
So it's very tough.
One metric that we've been giving out over time was the one I mentioned in my remarks of a 7% increase in active merchants.
And that's the best merchant -- best measure that we've come up with to show the improvement.
I recognize it's difficult to say so how much of the 9% sales growth came from that.
But we know it's having a positive impact.
Our next question comes from Mike Taiano from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is on the Card business and just maybe you can give us some color on where the competitive landscape stands today maybe versus the beginning of the year.
I've been hearing -- there's I guess an article in the Journal about one of your competitors and substantially increasing mail volume.
Just curious to get your sense of how pricing trends are going in the Card business.
Well this is David.
I think there was an erroneous piece of data out there for one so I'd be a little careful.
But I think that clearly marketing has impact -- has picked up quite a bit this year some even during the year.
But to a large degree I feel like marketing intensity pricing has returned to what I think is likely to be a new normal.
It was very depressed for several years.
I'd think it's unlikely that marketing will go back to the levels we saw in the mid-2000s.
For one reason there's just fewer competitors.
It's consolidated and some changes based on the CARD Act on who's profitable and who would not be going forward.
But I'm really pleased that our cost to acquire customers is actually down this year over last year despite this higher level of marketing intensity that we're seeing.
And I expect reasonable stability from this point on.
You're going to have months to higher months lower months competitors coming in and out but I think we're at the new normal.
Yes and I would -- this is Mark.
I would just add on to that.
I think this an area where the CARD Act is clearly our friend because now unless somebody goes 60 days delinquent you are stuck with the rates you offer them.
You don't have the ability to keep modifying that go-to rate if you will on a regular basis.
So we have not seen competitors offer some of the extremely low initial go-to rates that we have seen in the past.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And David the decline and the cost of acquisition what would you say is the biggest driver of that? Well I would say that we have seen improvements both in response rates and in approval rates.
And on the approval rate side I think we're seeing more stability and predictability of people that will help on [ph] credit performance and can repay their card loans over time so that's helping.
And I also think that consumers are increasingly attracted to our rewards program and to our level of service.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then just one follow-up if I can just on the Direct Banking business.
Student loan volume just curious as to how that given this is the peak month for that how that's tracking relative to your expectations.
And then also I think you guys had mentioned in the past about rolling out a checking account product for the bank.
I was just wondering where that stands.
Well I think on student loans we're actually through peak season at this period.
I'd say it was slightly below what our expectation was but I think we're still on track to deliver over $1 billion of net growth in that channel for the year.
In terms of checking accounts what I've said in the past is we do intend to launch a more -- a broad checking account likely in 2012.
But actually it would likely be at the real tail end as we put in place a new robust system that can offer the much more enhanced features that we intend to launch -- have when we launch the product.
Our next question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess for Mark you mentioned the impact from on the card margin from the CARD Act related default repricing as well as the benefit from improving credit quality.
I recall your Investor Day you threw up a slide that gave us a little more detail on that topic showing us the breakout of default rate balances and promo balances relative to standard balances and sort of some guidance that that was going to normalize at a different place.
Can you update us at all on how far along we are on that process particularly the default rate balances which were at 21% and fell to 12% and you were thinking -- I'm sorry 27% and 22% and you were thinking that that will go all the way down 10%.
And also on the promo side where you stand just in terms of getting up to that 15% target? Yes.
With respect to the default rate bucket what I would say is we are continuing to see that bucket  attrite but at a slower rate than we initially expected to see take place there.
I'm reticent to call exactly how long we expect that bucket to stay around because candidly all of our estimates at this point in time have been too aggressive in terms of the attrition assumptions we're making.
It's been much stickier than we assumed it would be.
With respect to the promotional balances I think right now if you take a look the BTs themselves are roughly 12% and total promotional balances are on the order of 15%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I see [ph] there.
My follow-up question is on the credit side struck by just an amazing performance in the 25-year loan delinquency rate.
I guess at some point though it has to stop going down.
It can't go to 0.
So are you seeing anything in the portfolio? This is not the best time seasonally.
Are you starting to see any early stage delinquencies sort of flatten out yet? Do you expect delinquencies to flatten out here? And then related question on the revenue benefit that you mentioned and the interest charge-offs coming down do you get a onetime catch-up to the extent you are overly conservative on your estimates of delinquent fees and finance charges that when those accounts end up carrying [ph] is that showing up in your margin at this point as well?  Or is that pretty much washed through since you've seemed to have such a good trend for so long? Yes I would say with respect to the trends we're seeing in the portfolio today I would say snapshot 3 weeks or 4 weeks into the quarter here all the major near-term indicators continue to be positive.
We continue to see declines in delinquencies we continue to see declines in charge-offs.
But the rate of improvement in delinquencies is slowing.
And if you couple that with the absolute low levels we're at right now plus the fact that we're growing receivables it's really not too much of a stretch to say there's a trough out there somewhere and we're probably closer to it than not.
But ultimately at this point in time I would say again everything continues to trend well.
With respect to your second question no there's no catch-up related to that if you will.
It's all in P&amp;I and Cs [ph] already.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess getting back to the commentary about acquisition costs being down are there any other things that you're doing that are different in terms of channels that would have led to that? Or is it just that kind of response rates and approval rates entirely? Well clearly more and more of our marketing and new customer originations is coming out of the Internet.
But I'd say even if you look by channel if I just isolate direct mail I would say our direct mail cost to acquire has fallen somewhat and some of it I think is us continuing to fine-tune and enhance our targeting and offering.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On a somewhat different issue David you mentioned being in discussions with respect to helping other issuers kind of fulfill their requirements under Durbin on the debit front.
Is that something in general I mean do you think that there are going to be situations where you replace an existing PIN debit?  Or do you think it's going to be more of a complement to existing PIN debit programs? I would say that we've got about 4 500 issuers on PULSE and I think the smaller issuers are in a little bit different circumstance than the larger issuers in terms of some of their requirements.
But I think it's probably too early to tell.
I think as you know with the routing rules clearly the large issuers have to have 2 noncompeting networks on the card and I think that we're probably going to see some of each some people that simply add another network and some that replace a network.
Our next question comes from Greg Meyer [ph] from CLCA [ph].
Just a quick question on the reserve.
When you think about the overall level versus either total loans or delinquencies is there a target you have?  Or is that even a valid question anymore and it's a constantly moving bogey? I'm just trying to understand how you think about the ultimate level when we think out to maybe 2013 or so when reserve -- when allowance should be growing at a rate similar to receivables.
Yes great question.
The bottom line is GAAP is awfully prescriptive these days in terms of your reserving methodologies.
So while from a contextual common sense standpoint I'd love to have a target ratio and be able to manage to it that unfortunately is not possible in today's construct.
So all of our reserves are set consistent with GAAP.
They're set on an incurred loss basis with a 12-month forward look at expected loss emergence.
So as our viewpoint of those dynamics changes so will our reserve coverage number change.
Our next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham.
Inc.</strong> I wonder if you could provide some additional color on consumer spending.
You said there was a little bit of a decline around Hurricane Irene and then more recently was there some shift in spending and how does that -- how does the increase in gas prices year-over-year affect that 9% growth number you think? Well we think that about 2% of our year-over-year growth is related to the higher gas prices because gas is order of magnitude 10% of sales.
So we're seeing probably remarkable stability in that year-over-year growth rate in that sort of 8% to 9% range that we reported this quarter and the past few quarters.
And as consumer confidence really took a nosedive it's been surprising to me frankly how well our sales have held up.
And so far through today I don't see anything that changes that dynamic.
Inc.</strong> And I mean I guess you sort of touched on this but so the acceptance I mean you spent a lot of money and effort building acceptance over the last few years.
Is it now that we're finally seeing that in the numbers do you think or...
I think we've been seeing the enhanced acceptance in our numbers for a long time.
We've been talking about it for several years and I don't know whether it's good news or bad news but it's going to continue for a while.
This is I would say a longer and more difficult journey than I had originally might have anticipated but I think our hybrid model where we're outsourcing all the smaller merchants and retaining the larger merchants is the winning one for the industry and will get us to where we want we want over time.
So I think it's going to continue to be a tailwind for us for the foreseeable future because it's not like it's going to be done next quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And follow-up just in terms of the 40 basis point decline in card yields how much of that is CARD Act and how much of that is promotional rates? I'd assume [ph] the CARD Act effect I mean go away eventually or kind of anniversary-ed it? Yes I don't have the breakdown in front of me.
I'd say that the card yield one I'd harken back to my earlier answer on the attrition of that default rate bucket being slower than we expected it would be.
So clearly that's a big component of it but I don't have the breakdown there in front of me.
Inc.</strong> Is it possible to say that there should be less CARD Act effect do you think over the next few quarters and more of a driver would be the promotional rates? I'm not prepared to make that statement without the data in front of me.
The thing I might point back to is in Investor Day we talked about eventually we think the NIM will stabilize in that 8.5% to 9% kind of range...
For the overall segment.
For the overall and we're still above that.
And so I think that as we -- as the effect of having no replenishment of people who have defaulted as that continues to amortize down then I would expect us to eventually get into that kind of a range.
But it's not -- the anniversary isn't really what drives it.
It's really as you eventually get the stability from no longer repricing delinquent accounts.
Inc.</strong> Lower funding costs -- funding costs are lower today though than at Investor Day.
And shouldn't that have a positive effect for a while? Well that's part of the reason that we're also that we're above that target.
Lower funding costs low charge-offs and the continued amortization of higher rate balances.
The other thing to remember is that target was a range.
And obviously the overall level of rates impacts where in that range we may fall.
Our next question comes from Jason Arnold from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess this is a question for Mark.
I was just wondering if you could give us some added detail on the recent student loans acquired from Citi specifically any a purchase accounting adjustments to the price average yield et cetera and then perhaps the inputs on the $0.07 per share accretion.
Yes I guess I would say that this recent tranche of student loans that we're picking up from Citi will be accounted for as PCI loans.
So they'll be measured at fair value which will obviously include their estimated credit losses to be incurred over the life of the loan.
There won't be any additional allowance established because it's obviously already in the fair value mark that we'll be putting up on that.
The portfolio itself is -- got an average FICO of somewhere in the order of 740.
It's about 80% private student loans and about 20% private student loan consolidation loans and there's a high percentage of cosigners out there on the book as well.
So that would be the basics on the portfolio itself.
With respect specifically to the $0.07 accretion calculation I would say the key things to keep in mind there are that the portfolio will -- we expect that it will earn above our 15% target ROE over the life of the portfolio.
The yield is expected to be on the order of call it 5% to 6% and we really won't take on any additional operating expense because we don't need to add infrastructure or headcount on that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and do you have the fair value mark yet that you'd be expecting? No.
Our next question comes from Brian Foran from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess just thinking through the math of the comment that you expect to build reserves in 2012.
I mean the way I'm thinking about it is your charge-offs seem to be at 3.6% in August your 30- to 59-day delinquency ratio back in 5 months ago what those charge-offs would reflect of around 88 bps and they've fallen around 20% since then.
So it seems like all else equal U.S.
card charge-offs just mathematically should roll down to 3% and then the mix effect of student loans should bring the consolidated charge-offs down to like 2.5%.
So I guess the point I'm trying to get to is not to pin you to charge-off guidance but are we in a scenario where even if you're building reserves in 2012 you could still have a provision rate that's below what we would all think of as a normal level just because charge-offs are lower still? The answer to that is it's possible.
I would tell you that the nature of the metrics and the way they are performing today and the nature of the fact that models are really predictive when you're in the fat part of the curve and less so when you're in the -- way out in the tails of the curve.
I would be hesitant to try and mathematically give you any estimates or guesstimates around that at this point in time but I would say that that is a possibility.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of rewards expense just trying to think how to model that going forward.
I mean the rewards expenses to spend volume ratio was stable this quarter after or I guess it was actually down slightly after increasing couple of years in a row.
Are we at a point where rewards expense has plateaued and we should just think of it as whatever spend-out volume does from here? Or is there still upward pressure building on rewards expense? I would say more or less that's a good way to be thinking about it.
If you look at the way our rewards expense is calculated there's a -- we've really at our current levels returned to a normalized level of rewards expense from depressed levels because there's a bit of a -- I don't want to create a misperception here where the magnitude -- the magnitude's clearly not the same but there's a bit of natural hedge in our rewards expense line item in bad credit environments.
Because if you go delinquent on your account you forfeit your rewards balance.
So in periods of time when credit's getting worse our rewards expense will go down because people will be forfeiting rewards balances that are out there in their bank.
So it's a bit of a natural hedge there and what you've seen -- I think we bottomed it like 75 or 76 basis points.
What you've seen really now from us is really a return to our more normalized levels.
Although I would add I think it's probably the new normal level because certainly the higher usage per account drives people to earn more money by the fact that they're in higher tiers.
We've enhanced our program over recent years.
It's giving more value to consumers and then the low attrition rate also drives less breakage and therefore has higher payouts.
So it has certainly risen in recent years but we think it's probably in the new normal level.
Research Division</strong> Is the competitive environment not putting I mean just watching TV you see all these commercials for BofA with a fairly aggressive cashback rewards as an example.
I mean I'm just surprised that you're not citing the competitive environment as one of the drivers.
Are we all overestimating the competition in rewards? I think that certainly one of the reasons we have enhanced our program over recent years is because as the pioneer in this space it's important for us to continue to be the best value for customers.
So I certainly wouldn't dismiss it.
But I'd say that a lot of the reason you're seeing competitors be in this space is that cash rewards is what consumers most want.
Our next question comes from Rick Shane from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> When we go back to March and during the Investor Day you gave long-term asset growth outlook and on card it was 2% to 4%.
Not coincidentally GDP expectations around that time were basically centered around 3% so right in the middle of what you guys were describing.
With GDP expectations coming down should we start to think about recalibrating our card growth expectations for 2012?  Or is there reason to believe you guys will gain market share? I would say that at this point we would stand by our 2% to 4% kind of target.
And I was really pleased that this quarter we actually got into the low end of that target range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And definitely want to acknowledge you guys are right on that path so that's sort of why I'm asking the question.
Just as a follow-up you'd made the comment that about 10% of sales is related to gas.
Do you find that that's a product that people substitute as pricing fluctuates people adjust other spending?  Or is it more sort of inelastic? I would say that we have not been able to observe much substitution and I am sure at the margin there must be some because people are spending more for gas.
They've got less to spend elsewhere.
And we've done some work analytical work to try to ferret out substitution and we just at least haven't been able to prove it out in our numbers.
Our next question comes from Henry Coffey from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Everyone seems to be trying to fret [ph] out a couple of key items here and I think and the general way to think about it is what's the split between the gains that are being created by your own efforts whether it's on the marketing side acceptance or credit-related and the cyclical factors that may impact you going forward.
When you look at either your delinquencies or your charge-offs and you start to analyze new entrants is it mainly just that sort of structural bucket of people that don't have jobs and are going to stop paying?  Or is there a new influx? And if you did the same thing on spend do you have a feeling for how much of it is just your generic cardholder kind of coming back to life and how much of it is people responding to the positive changes in marketing and other variables that you've worked on? Well I would say that's a tough question to answer.
I would say that it's certainly beyond "your point of card members coming back to life." I mean our sales this quarter were $1 billion more than our all-time quarterly record so this is not just a return.
This is growth beyond numbers that we've had ever in the past in terms of sales.
In terms of our efforts versus the industry clearly we are in a cyclical business and particularly the earnings have become more cyclical because of the accounting change that was made a few years ago on reserves and the reserves don't change your earnings over time.
They just change the recognition of when those earnings hit.
And so we're seeing to some degree that is in the numbers but if you look below the numbers at the charge-offs and delinquencies we know that there's a large amount of who we approved how much lines we put in all the payment plans we put in to try to keep customers current and not getting late fees not falling behind.
We also know that the whole industry is now also improving versus to where it was at the peak.
So I can't give you a perfect breakout.
I guess the one final thing I would say is that I'm pleased that we are still one of the leaders in credit and we were through the whole cycle.
And so I think the difference between us and the industry average is indicative to some degree of our controllable and individual efforts versus the competition.
Research Division</strong> So there's less sort of embedded cyclicality at least in your credit metrics because of actions you've taken probably over the last 5 years? Is that a fair way to think about it? Well I would say that our losses have remained a certain amount below industry average both at the worst part of the cycle and then now in a better part of the credit card cycle.
I would not go so far as to say the industry is less cyclical.
Although I mean we were hit with such a perfect storm as an industry 2 or 3 years ago and with all the changes that have taken place which would take me a long time to go through structurally competitively I would be really hard-pressed to see our losses or the industry losses to go as high as they were at the peak.
Our next question comes from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I think I'll go after something a little different here.
I just want to talk about the capital position for a bit.
So even after repurchasing almost 200 million of shares during the quarter you still grew 2 [ph] on common.
And if you look at the target that you guys laid out the Investor Day it looks like you have something like $2.2 billion or $2.3 billion of excess capital and despite growing your loans and you're going to do the purchase next quarter it looks like you'll continue to outpace deployment.
So I guess the question I want to ask is can you help us understand how you are thinking about deployment from both a timing as well as the use perspective just given the context of the current environment? If you were to maybe finish the buyback early can we see an increase or given what you're seeing in the economy should we expect some sort of slowing? Yes I'll do my best.
There was a lot in that one.
I'll do my best to tackle them all.
I would say in terms of how we think about our longer-term guidance of that 8% TCE [ph] target I'd say -- I'd guide you back to that and say longer term somewhere in that range is still where we intend to end up.
Do we end up right exactly at 8.00%? No I don't think so.
I mean my own personal perspective and I know David's too is riding right on the ragged edge to get a couple of itty bitty little clicks on the ROE just isn't worth the risk of riding right on the ragged edge of your guidance.
So I think we'll probably end up a little bit above 8% and I think the SIFI buffer and the Basel III process these are still out there and that'll have a little bit of bearing into that level as well but very modest we think.
In terms of getting to that level I guess we look at things a couple of different ways.
Ultimately we kind of view our shareholders having entrusted their capital to us to grow the value of the enterprise and right now we're driving very strong ROEs on all the capital we're bringing along and there's significant opportunity out there in the marketplace.
So we don't want to rush to return all of that capital in one fell swoop too quickly.
And  I think we want to retain some so that we have the ability to take advantage of those opportunities.
I would say the corollary to that though is that we do think good disciplined capital management involves a return of excess capital when appropriate to shareholders as well both in the form of buybacks and in the form of dividends.
So I would expect to see us maintain some of that excess capital for a period of time but I would not expect to see us maintain all that excess capital for an extended period of time.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just if I could get one quick follow-up just from a technical perspective on the other income line.
It seems like the numbers bounce down [ph].
I know there was a onetime number in the first quarter but sequentially it looks like you fell almost $15 million.
Is there anything going through that line that would help us from a modeling perspective? Ryan it's Craig.
Let me come back to you on that.
Nothing's jumping out I mean off the top of my head is the answer to your question.
Our next question comes from Adam Hurwich from Ulysses Management.
Just a quick question regarding a product that you might have commented on but I'm just curious what your thoughts are given the distribution you've got.
There's been a lot of attention given to prepaid cards with the Visa and MasterCard labels on them.
Is there anyway you could play in the same market? Well I would say that we actually do as a network.
Most of the larger -- well many of the prepaid large issuers issue some of their cards on our network.
We also participate as an issuer mainly from rewards fulfillment for our cash rewards program because that's one of the ways you can get your redemption for Cashback Bonus.
More broadly than that we could consider doing more but the economics would have to be attractive enough to make sense.
And so far we're playing in it the way we think works for us.
We have no further questions at this time.
Do you have any closing remarks? Thanks John.
I just want to thank everybody for their attention this morning for the questions and you know how to reach us for follow-up.
So thanks again and have a good day.
Bye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Discover Financial Services Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today's conference.
[Operator Instructions] Please note today's conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Craig Streem Vice President Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine.
Good morning everyone and welcome to today's call.
Let me begin by reminding all of you that the discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report and in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2010 and in our Form 10-Q for the third quarter 2011 all of which are on file with the SEC.
In the fourth quarter 2011 earnings release and supplement which are now posted on our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we've provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and to investors.
And of course we urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's conversation.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer; and then as always a question-and-answer session.
I would encourage you that during the Q&amp;A period it will be helpful if you limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up.
And now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Earlier today we reported fourth quarter net income of $513 million or $0.95 per share driven by continued improvements in credit and receivables growth in all products.
Our strong results and positive outlook for Discover led us to announce a 67% increase in our dividend and to continue to execute on our share repurchase program.
This morning I'm going to start off by discussing our fourth quarter and then walk you through some of the highlights of our full year results.
First regarding the fourth quarter Discover card sales volume grew 8% compared to the prior year.
The strong sales performance continues to include higher spending from the revolver segment of our portfolio helping us to grow card receivables $47 billion.
Our continued success in growing sales and receivables reflects greater effectiveness in marketing programs cash rewards leadership and expanded merchant acceptance all of which contribute to increases in profitable growth.
One example of this is our recently announced program with amazon.com in which Discover card members can pay directly with cashback bonus at this site as well as earn double rewards on their purchases until the end of the year.
Since we launched the program in October we have seen a significant increase in card member purchases at Amazon.
Another highlight this quarter is the continued improvement in card credit as our 30-plus day delinquency rate had another all-time record low at 2.39%.
In addition the card net charge-off rate dropped to 3.24%.
I'm very proud of these strong results which were due in large part to our efforts in credit risk management collections and marketing.
In our other lending product portfolios which include personal and private student loans we grew loans to $10 billion with the acquisition of approximately $2.5 billion in additional private student loans from Citi.
Our ongoing expansion outside of Card continues to drive earnings growth with attractive yields and strong credit performance.
Our Payment Services segment experienced total volume growth at 7% for the quarter versus the prior year.
All segments PULSE Diners Club and third-party issuing delivered good volume growth year-over-year this quarter.
As it relates to PULSE's strategy to win new PIN debit volume post Durbin we are responding to numerous RFPs and should have more to report in this regard next quarter.
Our fourth quarter performance provided a strong finish to 2011 an all-time record net income of $2.2 billion for the full year.
These results were primarily driven by improved credit cost and profitable loan growth in our Direct Banking segment and 18% higher Payment Services profits for the year.
On our 3 payment networks we achieved record volume of over $280 billion.
Additionally return on equity for the year was 30% considerably higher than our 15% long-term target.
Let me now share some thoughts on how we performed against our priorities for 2011.
Our first priority was to return to card growth by gaining wallet share and generating new accounts.
We returned to year-over-year card growth in June and ended the year up 3% from last year.
Closely tied to our receivables growth priority was our objective to expand merchant acceptance and marketing partnerships to drive Discover Card sales.
Many milestones were achieved along the way to accomplish this priority including a record number of card members using us as their primary card a 10-year low level of attrition record levels of engagement in our rewards programs and record levels of active merchants.
I am very pleased that these accomplishments helped drive us to a record Discover Card sales volume in excess of $100 billion for 2011.
We had 2 principal priorities for our other lending products to integrate the Student Loan Corporation and to continue generating strong returns in private student and personal loans.
We have completed the organizational integration of the Student Loan Corporation and are on track to deliver the remaining technology and operations migration.
In addition to the 2 accretive acquisitions we delivered significant profitable organic growth in private student loans and in personal loans.
Staying within Direct Banking our next priority was to leverage the retail deposit channel to provide liquidity and optimize funding costs.
We grew direct-to-consumer deposits by 27% over the course of the year while reducing our cost of funds and broadening relationships with our customers.
Lastly we had 2 priorities for our Payments business the first was to capture opportunities in the changing debit market which remains in process the other priority was to leverage our strategic partnerships as we continue to build out our global network.
For example our inbound volume from JCB cardholders grew 15% over $700 million despite the catastrophic events earlier this year in Japan.
We also recently announced an acquiring agreement with WorldPay that will significantly increase our acceptance in the U.K.
and Western Europe.
Here in the U.S.
we made some great progress on increasing acceptance and growing volume.
For instance PULSE  full year debit volume grew 19% year-over-year.
To wrap up we delivered exceptional results for the year despite a relatively challenging economic environment.
Our strong results have positioned us to return excess capital to our shareholders by increasing our dividends 67% and reducing our share count by 3% through our share repurchase program during the last 2 quarters.
As we enter 2012 I'm looking forward to capitalizing on growth opportunities such as building out our Direct Banking platform continuing to drive profitable growth in receivables and winning new business in PIN debit.
We look forward to providing you with an update on our 2012 growth strategies at our Financial Community briefing in March.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
I'll begin my comments by focusing on our Direct Banking segment's fourth quarter results.
The segment earned $776 million pretax this quarter versus $554 million last year.
Reserve releases contributed only $68 million to pretax earnings in this quarter versus $414 million in last year's fourth quarter as we saw a slowdown in the rate of credit improvement.
Turning to interest yield on the Card portfolio we reported a 32 basis point decrease from the prior year to 12.36%.
The principal components of the decrease are the same as I've mentioned during prior quarters.
First to the CARD Act impact on higher-priced default balances.
Second an increase in promotional volumes.
And finally an increase in the number of customers who pay their balances in full.
These were partially offset by lower interest charge-offs.
Total portfolio yield declined 68 basis points from the prior year.
This resulted from the card yield compression that I just mentioned and the private student loan acquisitions in the first and fourth quarters of the year.
These acquisitions have the effect of reducing overall portfolio yield.
However it's important to note that we also expect student loans to produce much lower average credit losses than the card product.
Net interest income increased $136 million or 12% versus the prior year driven by asset growth lower charge-offs of accrued interest and the benefit of lower funding costs.
On a net interest margin basis we had 18 basis points of compression from the prior year and 16 basis points from the prior quarter.
This was due to the yield compression I noted a moment ago partially offset by lower funding costs.
If you remove the effect of the additional private student loans we acquired in the quarter net interest margin would actually have been up 2 basis points sequentially.
The lower funding costs reflect the benefit from the roll off of higher-priced time deposits.
We expect to continue to benefit from this funding cost tailwind through 2012 as we replace these existing deposits with lower cost borrowings through our 3 main funding channels and as we continue to benefit from the Fed's current monetary policy.
The combination of these yield and funding cost trends should drive NIM down slightly from where it is now at 9.1% to around 9% next year.
Other income was $66 million higher than in the prior-year period.
You may recall that we recognized a $28 million charge to other income in the fourth quarter of 2010 when we classified our remaining federal student portfolio as held for sale.
The growth in other income was also driven by higher discount in interchange revenue which was partially offset by higher rewards expenses.
Our rewards expense dropped to 86 basis points for the quarter.
However going forward we expect this number to be somewhat higher as we continue to refine our rewards program in the ordinary course of business.
Other expenses for the segment grew by $44 million or 7% over the prior year.
$18 million of the increase comes from expenses related to the purchase of the Student Loan Corporation.
The remaining $26 million increase from the prior year consists primarily of higher employee compensation for technology infrastructure improvements enhancements of our credit and collection processes and higher call center staffing.
Before I turn to Payment Services let me comment briefly on loan growth and credit performance for our other consumer lending products.
Receivables in our personal loan product were up $770 million from the prior year.
Loans greater than 30 days past due increased 2 basis points from the prior quarter to 87 basis points.
Personal loans net principal charge-off rate decreased by 15 basis points to 2.58%.
The improvement can be attributed to portfolio growth and risk initiatives.
We continue to focus on thoughtful measured growth in this asset class by leveraging our established underwriting competencies.
Private student loans grew $6.3 billion compared to the prior year with approximately $3 billion of the growth coming from the acquisition of the Student Loan Corporation in the first quarter and an additional $2.4 billion from the purchase of private student loans from Citi at the end of September.
You may remember from the initial announcement the face value of these loans was $2.5 billion.
However since we bought the portfolio at a discount the loans came on our books at $2.4 billion.
Credit losses on these loans will not flow through the P&amp;L as the accretable yield includes expected future credit losses.
Reserves against these loans will only be booked if expected credit losses increase after the acquisition date.
In addition to the acquisitions we achieved organic growth of approximately $1 billion in net receivables for the year.
Our 30-plus day delinquency rate for private student loans dropped 17 basis points sequentially to 63 basis points excluding the purchase credit impaired loans.
The charge-off rate again excluding PCI loans was also down 17 basis points as it decreased to 45 basis points.
The decrease in both of these metrics is typical with the seasonality in this product.
Having launched the product offering in 2007 we will see an increasing level of loans entering repayment as students graduate and of course we will start to experience some degree of credit losses that will eventually increase these rates toward our targeted levels.
This phenomenon has contributed increase in our reserve rate.
Turning to the Payment Services segment.
We increased pretax profit by 35% year-over-year to $42 million.
Revenues increased faster than volume growth reflecting a bit of a mixed shift towards higher margin volume at PULSE.
Expenses were down 8% compared the prior year primarily due to the timing of some marketing programs.
Before I discuss capital I want to touch on liquidity and funding.
As expected our investment portfolio ended the quarter at $8.5 billion down from $9.4 billion at the end of the prior quarter as we utilized liquidity built up during the third quarter to fund the recent private student loan acquisition.
The size of our liquidity investment portfolio from here will be a function of receivables growth upcoming funding maturities and seasonal needs.
Our total liquidity ended the quarter at $26.2 billion or roughly flat to the third quarter.
This includes cash liquid investments conduit capacity our bank credit facility and capacity with the Fed discount window.
Our total liquidity has grown by $3.5 billion over the past year.
As a result of this enhanced liquidity position as well as our having obtained a number of new conduit facilities we've made the decision to terminate our existing $2.4 billion syndicated credit facility.
Excluding this our contingent liquidity position would have been $23.8 billion.
Moving on to funding.
Direct to consumer deposits continue to be our largest source of funding at 45%.
While we expect them to remain our largest funding channel going forward we will continue to opportunistically access our other funding channels which include broker deposits and the ABS market.
Before the end of the quarter we closed a $400 million floating-rate 5-year ABS transaction priced at 1-month LIBOR plus 35 basis points.
Pricing for this transaction was 23 basis points better than our last 5-year ABS issuance just over one year ago.
Next I want to touch on our strong capital position.
Our tangible common equity to tangible assets ratio decreased in the quarter to 11.4% which is still one of the highest ratios among large financial institutions.
The ratio decreased slightly from the last quarter for all the right reasons as we deployed capital by closing on the additional private student loan acquisition declared our regular quarterly dividend and repurchased $227 million of our shares.
There is roughly $575 million of capacity remaining under our current share repurchase authorization.
Regarding the 2012 capital planning process with the Fed like everyone else we just received around Thanksgiving the guidelines.
We are currently preparing the required submission and we'll provide you with an update our capital plans next March.
In summary I'm very pleased with our financial performance for 2011 as we were able to deliver outstanding credit performance and strong receivables growth and also able to responsibly deploy our capital through increased dividends share repurchases and 2 accretive acquisitions.
That concludes my comments.
So at this time I'll turn the call back to the operator to provide instructions for the Q&amp;A period.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I have 2 kind of unrelated questions so sorry.
But just the first one I was wondering if you could just talk about your reserve methodology because I look at the reserve rate excluding PCI loans to charge-offs that ratio kind of expanded in this last quarter versus the previous quarter and it seems like your credit metrics are pretty solid and are trending pretty solidly through November so I was just wondering what the rationale there was? And then just secondarily on capital Mark you just kind of touched on it a little bit but I was just wondering what the game plan is in terms of next year and you guys asking for permission in the context of the stress case.
I mean should we expect kind of similar type of action next year as you guys have done at least on a quarterly basis this year? Sanjay I guess with respect to the first question on the reserving methodology it's really just mathematics driving that reserve coverage ratio.
We reserve based on a forward 12-month rolling loss estimate basis.
So as our models show any forecasted turns in that the reserving responds accordingly.
As I've said on the call before and as I've told you before I wish we had more judgment in how we set reserves.
We don't have that flexibility so it's pretty much an arithmetic process with GAAP being very prescriptive.
With respect to the capital side of the equation obviously I'm limited in what I can say there.
I guess the best way I can answer your question Sanjay is to say well we've never really formally disclosed our thoughts on a payout ratio.
If you look at what it's been historically we think we have some room to increase it from where it's been.
The next question comes from John Stilmar from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very quickly to dovetail onto Sanjay's question should we think about -- when you're talking about return of capital is it relative to a payout ratio or is it relative to an absolute level of capital that you're kind of targeting in the relative near-term? I'm just wondering what kind of the bogey is it you're using as a target without obviously getting into the specifics that you can't reveal? Yes I would say from that perspective let's call it a multivariate equation.
We clearly have telegraphed.
We think we're in a somewhat target-rich environment right now.
And given our demonstrated ability to earn through some of that excess capital holding onto some of it right now while we look across the spectrum it makes sense to us as long as we can keep running through it.
That said we also recognized we're accreting capital at a significant rate.
So I would say that my earlier comments about our belief that we can increase the payout ratio relative to historical norms is probably the best guidance I can give you in that regard.
We do tend to think about things in terms of a payout ratio internally.
But again we don't tend to disclose that number publicly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then the second question has to do David I think more theoretical concept is we're starting to see momentum certainly building in mobile payments with Google Wallet and some of the shifting plates there.
I'm wondering other than your relationship with Isis which we've obviously discussed in prior quarters what should we start to expect from Discover in terms of this rapidly developing landscape of mobile wallets mobile payments and sort of the changing landscape and how is Discover set up to capitalize on it and what should we be looking for as evidence of that in the coming quarters or years? Well John obviously we were the first player involved with Isis.
But we had said at the time that we intend to be part of multiple efforts and in fact have already been announced to be part of Google as another example as well.
And we are continuing to aggressively pursue many opportunities.
We've issued a good number of Zip cards to our customers.
We continue to make sure that we're integrated with the terminals at the merchants as they deploy the wireless terminals.
We're working with multiple handset manufacturers and technology companies and where possible we're going to try to do some innovative things to really help us gain market share both as a network and as an issuer.
Next question comes from Craig Maurer from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions one on the tax rate.
Mark where do you see that settling out for '12? It's bounced around a little bit this past year.
And secondly to narrow the focus of the previous question how do you see Verizon moving forward? Isis has clearly proven disappointing to them as they've had some material setbacks on technology and clearly they're not exactly launching in big markets but they've chosen to play hardball with Google Wallet clearly the superior product.
So I'm curious as to where you think Verizon comes out on this whole debate.
Is this just a revenue extracting tactic to try to gain advertising revs from Google? It's Mark.
I'll tackle the tax rate and then I'll pass it off to my boss to handle the Verizon and Isis question.
From a modeling perspective I think we for the fourth quarter had an effective rate of about 37.3% or so.
I would encourage you modeling-wise to kind of maintain that rate through 2012 would be a pretty good estimate at this point.
And in terms of mobile I wouldn't want to comment on a specific company or effort but more broadly I would say we're going -- I expect we're going to see a lot of twists and turns in this as new technologies are offered and as we see how consumers and merchants and issuers test things not everything will work and that's one of the reasons that we're hedging our bets to be involved in a number of efforts so that we are aligned with what ultimately emerge as winners in this.
And I also think there are likely to be more -- there's going to be more than one winner.
The next question comes from Jason Arnold from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was just curious if you could give us a little color on the network volume trends this quarter.
It looks like most were down sequentially so curious if this is more macro-driven or perhaps what other factors are at play here.
Any color you could provide there would be great? Certainly I was pleased with the continuing 8% volume growth on Discover sales.
And PULSE if you look at the full year we were up 19% as I mentioned on volume year-over-year which is one of the strongest in the world of debit.
We do see quarterly movements in this partly because there are some chunky volumes that can move in or out.
And one of the trends that we saw this year is that there were a number of large issuer deals that kind of were on hold waiting to see what the ultimate Fed rules came out related to Durbin.
And so second half of this year there just wasn't a lot of share that shifted hands.
And I think as I mentioned in the call we're right now in the middle of a lot of RFPs and I think that by April 1 when the network routing rules go in place we'll see some more shifts.
And so we don't have more to report on that now.
But as we've consistently reported we wouldn't expect to see any volume pickup from that until hopefully if we're successful in the second quarter onward as some of this volume starts to move around in debit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
It certainly seems like more opportunity than anything else for you to gain share on the PULSE side.
Can you comment anymore on that or do you want to save it for the next quarter? Well I would just say that we have been a leader in the under $10 billion size institutions and so I think that volume is sort of not particularly at risk.
And I would say also virtually all of our cards have 2 brands on the cards.
We're typically a PIN debit and there's almost always someone else's signature on the front.
So we do view it as more opportunity versus risk.
And how much that opportunity is is the thing we're working aggressively to try to pursue right now and we just can't comment on where we'll end up.
The next question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
This is just a follow-up on the PULSE question real quick if I could.
Can you remind us what's causing the sharp deceleration in PULSE volumes throughout 2011? I think I'm calculating high 20s rates in the first half of the year and falling down to 8% this past quarter.
I just wanted to know if there's anything in there.
And on the RFPs that you are proposing for PULSE to be added as a PIN debit network can you tell us if a lot of the banks are adding or considering adding PULSE as an exclusive on the back of the card or is it going to be PULSE as an addition to an existing network that needs to satisfy exclusivity? If you can give us any color there? And I also have a credit card question as a follow-up.
So on your second question I think it's too early to say.
That's one of the things that I think the larger issuers will be determining whether they're going to be adding or replacing PIN debit networks.
And we should have more color on that next quarter.
On your first question we had some very significant growth in the fourth quarter of last year as we had some big wins and so this quarter we're now a year from that with -- so we've got a much higher comparable and we're through the annualization of that.
And as I said we didn't have as much opportunity for big wins in the last half of this year as people waited to see what the new rules were going to be.
So that's the reason for the change during the year.
But again I'd point back to the big picture which is for the year we're up to 19%.
It's well above that market growth rate.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very solid indeed.
And then my second kind of question would be on the credit card side just to comment on competition for lending volumes and what you're seeing as you market to consumers.
I noticed  marketing ticked down at least on a year-over-year basis this quarter your cash advance levels fell a little bit a little bit reduced teaser activity.
And the average loans for the quarter in the credit card business are actually below the last 2 data points third quarter and fourth quarter ending period.
If you could just give me a little help there on what caused that? Well I think I was pleased with our lending volume.
We -- at our Investor Day we had been targeting 2% to 4% long-term organic growth as our target.
And this quarter we moved up from ending receivables growth year-over-year from 2% last quarter to 3% this quarter so we're right in the middle of that range.
And we're one of the very few credit card companies that is showing organic growth combined with great credit quality.
And I think in terms of competition as I've said last -- I think on the last call I do feel like many of our competitors who cut way back on their marketing have restored a lot of that marketing and I don't think the marketing intensity is or is likely to go as high as it was before the great downturn and the consolidation in the industry.
But I think we're back to the new normal if you will in terms of competitive intensity and our marketing I would say is the same.
We had less of a cutback on marketing but we've restored that and you'll see some changes from quarter-to-quarter as we sequence some of our promotional activity.
But generally we're at about the run rate we think we need to generate that 2% to 4% long-term receivable growth that we are striving towards.
The next question comes from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just on the NIM given in the current quarter you saw card yield fall 10 basis points and looks like the funding declined a little bit more than that and now you're telling us correct me if I'm wrong Mark 9% on the NIM for next year.
So can you just help us understand what is going to -- what is actually going to drive it lower? I would've thought that given the size of the funding benefit that we could have actually seen some sort of stability in the margins.
So can you maybe help us understand that? I know you laid out some of the potentials puts and takes but maybe if you can flush those out a little further? Yes I think Ryan the biggest delta in what I'm hearing in the question is probably just going to be simply a mix of receivables on the balance sheet and the ultimate effect on NIM as a result of that.
We continue to expect a relative magnitude to the funding advantage that we expect to see over the next couple of years in line with what we had guided to before which anybody who hasn't seen those you can go to our website and get those off our couple most recent investor presentations where we kind of give a sense on CD maturity and rates.
So I think the bigger issue is just going to be some of the stronger growth is likely to come from some of the products other than card and that will just simply have an effect of depressing the NIM somewhat.
That said though I would reiterate my earlier comment that despite having a lower margin we also expect lower credit loss on that product as well as opposed to a card product.
So the profitability metrics are pretty solid.
And I would just remind you we're continuing to have some higher rate balances that are amortizing off.
So the CARD Act as each year goes past will have less and less impact.
But this year you've seen somewhat of an offsetting factors with higher rates rolling off and the benefit of lower funding costs and lower interest charge-offs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up if I can.
Just on credit I think we talked a lot about on last quarter's call that you guys were going to start building reserves at some point in 2012.
Now I understand it is pretty formulaic but if you think about the economic factor and we have seen some of the data begin to improve.
We see -- a jobless claims down materially today.
We've seen a pickup in GDP growth.
Are you still comfortable with the guidance that we're going to need to build reserves next year or is there any change in the outlook? No I would still be very comfortable with that guidance.
I would say that comment was based not so much on a turn in the credit environment as it was based on growth expectations.
The next question comes from Ken Bruce from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My question also relates to the NIM.
I'm hoping you might be able to give us some additional granularity on the quarter-over-quarter changes.
How much was being driven by CARD Act? How much from promotional balances and how much from the student loans please? Now we haven't provided that level of detail.
[indiscernible].
But I think in the [indiscernible] mix and some of those components a little of our [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] comment you made in your formal presentation you'd indicated that if you remove the student loan impact the asset yields would've been up quarter-over-quarter.
Could you give us just some clarification around that? The NIM would have been up quarter-over-quarter had we removed the student loan acquisition that's correct.
So in other words the way to think about it at a high level is that the impact to the funding costs with respect to the credit card book specifically outran the yield compression that we saw.
The next question comes from Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> David as you look into 2012 I was just curious if there's anything that you're looking at on the strategic front in terms of bolt-on acquisitions any areas you think that look interesting or if you're even looking at any smaller type transactions? Well we would continue to look for opportunities given our capital position and our desire to build out our Direct Banking and payment strategies.
But I'd also say that we would continue to be very careful on that.
You saw what we did in 2011 with the 2 student loan acquisitions.
We are looking forward to continuing to build off of that student loan position during this coming year.
We're looking forward to closing on during the course of the year and launching our Discover home loan origination area.
So I would not say that any acquisition is even required to continue fulfilling the -- our objective.
But if the right things available at the right price and terms then we -- and it fits our strategy it fits our financial model then of course we'd be interested.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then quickly on the spend and transaction volumes were there any -- how did these for end of the quarter look and into December? I mean are things still moderating in terms of year-over-year growth rates? Well what I'd say is that we are reporting about a week earlier than we did last year so I don't think we have as much of a view for the full holiday sales.
I think the one general trend I've noticed is continuing good transaction accounts and debit activity on our programs some moderation in average ticket.
Some of that you would expect with falling gas prices which I think is a good thing for our customers but impacts volume.
But it also could possibly reflect a little more discounting by some of the retailers that could impact average ticket.
So we'll obviously know more as we finish out this season it's important last couple of weeks here.
Your next question comes from Rick Shane from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
One in terms of -- you'd made some comments about marketing in competitive environment can you just tell us specifically where you are in terms of your normalized promotional balances? Are you now at the 15% level? Yes I would say we disclosed back in the third quarter that we were at total promotional balances of around 15%.
That includes not just balance transfer activity but it's all promotional activities.
And I would say we haven't seen any significant shifts from that level since we last disclosed it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Second question this is just a little bit further ahead you guys are ultimately a pretty large consumer of the Postal Service business.
When you look ahead to the changes in terms of service quality from the U.S.
Postal Service going forward what percentage of your customers are actually mailing their monthly payments as opposed to paying online? Just so we can get a sense of what the impact might be on the industry going forward? Well we are a big customer of the Post Office and we've been very pleased with their continuing service so I'm not particularly concerned about that.
I would say that a lot of it -- we're not going to disclose the exact numbers but a lot of our business whether it's for new accounts from payments and other activities customer self-servicing on the Internet a lot of it is moving to the Internet.
And just as a general guide we had -- a couple of years ago we had 3 payment processing and statement centers and we've now consolidated down to just one and a lot of that is because of the big move that we're seeing to the Internet.
And I think that is one of the main reasons main focuses that we have on our future cost position because we think that doing things online can drive an increasing level of efficiency across our organization.
Next question comes from Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> On the student loan I'd like to get a little more color on the Student Loan business and kind of your thought process on the outlook.
I mean I do sense that -- I mean the opportunity there but also certainly seems to be some concern in the market about that business.
And as you did talk that the credit losses are awful low right now but it's starting to move up to normal levels what kind of organic growth are you hoping to drive out of that business and over what timeframe? I think people are going to be watching the credit quality on that business investors pretty closely.
Maybe you can give some feel for how that's going to -- how we should expect that to trend over the next year? Well we've really liked the Private Student Loan business and I think some of the confusion is over the federal student loans which are about 95% of the market versus the 5% or so that's private student loans.
And you have seen some figures come out industry figures but in the quarter and I think on deteriorating credit quality but I would just remind you that those are on the federal side.
As Mark mentioned our statistics have continued to perform per our expectations which means that we continued to expect much lower loan losses and much better credit quality than the credit cards or than federal student loans.
And I think that we have tried to be very careful in what we do with a lot of co-signatures.
So to a large degree we're lending not just to students but we're involving the parents which we think significantly helps the credit and makes better decisions.
And we're very focused on ability to pay and being cautious to help make sure that our students don't get in over their heads in terms of the debt that they can -- that they're taking on.
And so I think in terms of growth in Investor Day we said that we had hoped to grow organically by about $1 billion this year and that's about what we hit.
And next year we think we can do a bit more than that and we'll be more specific with some targets during Investor Day.
And with respect to the implicit question regarding profitability in light of the changing loss profile I'd point you back to last year's Investor Day metrics as well.
We wouldn't see any reason to give any different guidance on the long-term profitability or the longer-term credit performance of that book.
And in fact on that regard we said that the Student Loan acquisition we closed on a year-ago we were looking for a $0.09 earnings accretion and I'm happy to report that it was right in the $0.09 to $0.10 range of earnings accretion from that.
So it's tracking along well so far.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up question sorry it's unrelated as well.
On the Payments segment just some thoughts around there and you talked a bit about the mobile but one area that you have that Discover has kind of been going against the grain on if you will is it lack of interest in the prepaid market? I mean certainly Visa MasterCard American Express and I just wondered why maybe you'd give a little color on -- that is -- it's forecasted to be probably the fastest growing area of payments over the next decade.
Why is there this lack of interest in that product by Discover? Well I actually wouldn't characterize it as lack of interest.
I would say we are a big player on the network side and in fact there is a -- we don't disclose the exact numbers but we have a significant volume particularly on PULSE but also on Discover Network from prepaid and the largest -- some of the largest prepaid providers in the country operate on our network.
And so we may be just a bit more quiet about it but we're certainly pursuing multiple opportunities in that regard.
Your next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Following-up on the previous discussion on competition kind of in your core product I think you had mentioned that you expected the cost of rewards to drift upward in the coming year.
Just talk a little bit about the competitive environment from rewards because I guess there's lot of people out there offering them.
I think you're numbers are pretty good and just talk about what you're seeing there and I've have got a follow-up? Yes I guess I would say we -- as David mentioned earlier we see that the competitive environment is having to return to basically call it a normalized level more or less where everybody is once again competing for activity balances and wallet share.
I think -- we do think the rewards cost in the quarter at 86 basis points was unsustainably low.
We don't think that's the right number to be looking at going forward.
I'm not prepared to give guidance on exactly where I think it will be going forward.
But I guess what I would say is we're disciplined in how we manage that process and we'll continue to be disciplined.
We'd expect the first quarter to be a little bit elevated and we'll monitor the results and kind of see if we need to make any adjustments to the program based upon that.
Research Division</strong> Mark I guess I was asking how you see it stacking up against your competitive offers from other issuers who were offering cashback.
Well what I would say is that we've been the leader in rewards and cash rewards specifically for 25 years.
We do have a number of competitors who have been copying some of our features and programs.
And so we continue to have innovations.
And one of the things that we're very focused on is working with retailers where we have many retailers on our Shop Discover program that work with us on the 5% program and have more ways to earn and redeem than our competitors.
And it's an area that we think we need to continue to be the leaders and we need to have stability.
There's an awful lot of competitors that have come in and then gone out when they realize that it's expensive and it's specialized whereas you've seen us stay the course and continue to be the leader recognized by consumers broadly in this area.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up Mark you had mentioned that you had wished you had more flexibility on the setting of the reserve.
If you had that what would you be doing differently? I can't comment on that.
That would really kind of run counter.
I don't blame you for asking.
I don't hold it against you one iota.
That's fine.
The next question comes from Scott Valentin from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just earlier you referenced moving up to top of wallet becoming a primary card for more of your cardholders.
Can you give any sense of how that shifted over time? Maybe give a range or some measure but just curious as to how that's changed over time? Well what I'd say is that it probably accelerated during the downturn and one of the things that if you look at our sales volume on Discover Card the last 3 years our sales did not drop off as much as any of the other competitors.
And now we're growing 8% during this quarter and we've also disclosed in Investor Day and a couple of times some other metrics both on growth on active merchants and in growth of sales on primary customers.
I can't go into great detail on how we track it but we certainly are very focused on our wallet share which we see on the credit bureaus and on getting not only more active customers but getting our active customers to use us more.
And there is great leverage in having a couple of more transactions a month on our card versus someone else's card and we're very focused on that usually using our rewards program.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up on the M&amp;A discussion is there any preference for an asset generating acquisition versus a funding acquisition? I think you've seen us do both over time -- well really probably 3 kinds.
We've done some funding with the E-trade funding acquisition from 2 years ago.
You've seen is doing assets and a business which are the student loan acquisitions and then you've seen us announce the home loan which is more of a fee generating business since we don't intend to keep those on books.
So -- and then finally you've seen us do payments once with both Diners Club and PULSE over the years.
So I think that anything that fits our strategy and has the right financial metrics for our shareholders is something that we would at least pay attention to.
The next question comes from Brian Foran from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I missed the first part of the Q&amp;A so stop me if this is redundant but I guess I would've certainly expected revenue suppression to be a little bit bigger tailwind than it seems to have been in the quarter and can you just remind us I know you don't have the reserve component of your revenue suppression so that's one big difference versus Cap One and versus the interest charge-off -- interest and fee charge-offs at AMEX but historically you were kind of in between Cap One and AMEX now you seem to be much higher.
Is there something structurally that's changed in your revenue suppression rate or is there just a lag factor that's working its way through? Suffice to say post the CARD Act we've obviously seen a lower absolute level of revenue suppression.
But the ultimate suppression is going to depend and how low charge-offs go and where they normalize ultimately.
And I think the relative degree of suppression we've had is relative to some of those other names you've mentioned is obviously tied to the relative performance on our charge-off line item relative to those folks as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But so I guess if we continue to see charge-offs go down it would continue to improve.
And if we see charge-offs go up it would start to become a bigger contra revenue line item? All else equal Brian that would be the trend.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then I know you've kind of touched on it in multiple questions but just given the offers that BofA and Chase have in cashback rewards and to a lesser extent Capital One is the rewards commentary kind of about matching those offers or is it about one upping those offers or just how do we think about the offers the big guys are running in the cashback space right now? Well remember that we have been running at around 90 basis points and have suggested some stability so part of the comments where the 86 is below that and was intended to signal that we're not is probably a little bit lower level.
It will fluctuate to a large degree by how much promotional work we do in a given quarter how much we do in our 5% program and our other programs.
And we go through a rigorous process particularly on the promotional programs to do testing and see what kind of incremental sales we have what kind of spend we have that is sustained both in other categories and in the categories in which we have promotions.
So while we certainly look at competitors I'd say our biggest focus is making sure that we're delivering the maximum value at an achievable cost for us and I think we've proven that we're the best at that over the long haul.
Yes.
As David noted we've seen the big guys come in and out of this in the past.
We're not going to respond we're not going to beat we're not going to match.
We're going to do what's right to engage our customers and to drive growth.
We've stayed the course in this product for a long period of time.
We've been innovate -- into it and out of it.
We're going to continue to stay the course and we're not concerned about our ability to do that.
The next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I wondered could you tell us what portion of the government guaranteed loans you have are eligible for the refinancing into direct loans and if you have a sense yet of how much that might happen and then what kind of discount you've got the loans on the books for now? Yes.
I would say everything we have in student loan small book is like $700 million give or take.
If I remember the number correctly it's all in the held for sale category and it's marked to appropriate market rates at this point in time.
So I think that has a limited shelf life on our books.
Inc.</strong> Right.
But if you could get them refinanced a way at par that will be better and I just wondered if you worked out that that's likely to happen or it's possible to happen? No.
I would say that's not likely to happen at this point in time.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then could you maybe go back and provide a little more color in terms of credit card loan growth sort of what was different in Q3 versus Q4 and the balance growth you had during those 2 quarters and the average balances as Chris pointed out were down even though period end balances were up in Q4 and Q3? Well remember there is obviously seasonality in credit cards whether it's back-to-school or the holiday period that we're coming into.
So I think that the thing we typically point to is the year-over-year growth in loans.
And you've seen us kind of consistently move from neutral to 1% to 2% to now 3% year-over-year.
And that was our ending balance.
And so I think I wouldn't overly analyze on seasonality.
I would suggest that you look year-over-year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then -- but just the average balance didn't go up as much in the fourth quarter as the kind of the ending balance.
I guess I'm just curious about that.
You painted the average balance for the fourth quarter is below the beginning and the ending balance in between? Well I think that we've had momentum and if you go from 1% to 2% to 3% ending then you're going to see bigger numbers at the end than you are during the middle because you're growing during the course of that quarter.
Today's final question comes from Matthew Howlett from Macquarie.
Just a modeling question.
Regarding the student loans I know you've reaffirmed sort of the economic guidance regarding debt portfolio but is there a default period that may be elevated let's just say a couple of years after the payment rates start that could skew the margin temporarily? Yes as we've discussed in Investor Day normally in student loans there's definitely vintages that you have to look at and you have minimal defaults during the time people are in school.
You would expect to have about half of the default the lifetime defaults during the first 2 years of repayment and then the other half of the defaults during the remaining life of these loans.
And so as the book matures and you have more people in that first 2 years after repayment you would expect to have elevated losses.
And if you look at our what 45 basis points of losses that's obviously well below what we'd expect this business to be when it's at maturity and that's why we internally look at the vintage curves.
As it seasons it'll come to up to more normal levels of losses.
Is the portfolio still today would those year -- would sort of a peak years be 2012 2013 sort of the repayment periods sort of peak default periods as the portfolio stands today? It's going to obviously depend on how much we grow over the next few years.
So I wouldn't want to -- and to a lesser degree maybe on what's going on in the economy.
I mean we're pleased that it's performing well right now at a time when unemployment -- employment for new grads is not -- is really not the best.
So I wouldn't want to say what year will it be peak.
The other thing I would remind you is that the majority of our portfolio is now purchased seasoned loans and so we've got a lot of history.
The company that we purchased Student Loan Corporation has been in the Student Loan business for 50 years and we're one of the top 3 in the business.
So we're originators.
So I think we feel we've got a lot of expertise now in-house.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the call back to Craig Streem for final results.
Thanks Christina.
I just want to thank all of you for your attention this morning and your interest.
And then certainly on behalf of my colleagues we want to wish all of you a very happy and healthy holiday season and New Year's and we'll continue to stay in touch.
Bye-bye.
Thank you for participating in the Discover Financial Services Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This concludes the conference for today.
You may all disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the 2012 First Quarter Earnings Release Call.
My name is Hilda and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Craig Streem.
Mr.
Streem you may begin.
Today Hilda.
And welcome everyone to this afternoon's call.
We certainly appreciate your joining us for the discussion today.
Let me begin by reminding everyone that the discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report and in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2011 which is on file with the SEC.
In the first quarter 2012 earnings release and supplement which are now posted on our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and to investors.
And we urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Finally we will be holding our annual financial community update tomorrow morning at 8:30 a.m.
at The New York Palace Hotel.
If you would like more information about that meeting please get in touch with me these evening by e-mail.
And with that event ahead of us tomorrow it is our intention to keep this call and your questions focused on our first quarter results and performance and we'll certainly have much more for you tomorrow regarding our strategies for profitable growth.
Our call this afternoon will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
And of course a question-and-answer session excuse me.
Now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us.
As Craig mentioned we are looking forward to our annual financial community briefing tomorrow morning where members of our executive team will take you through some of the exciting developments and opportunities ahead of us at Discover.
After the market closed today we reported record first quarter net income of $631 million or $1.18 per share driven by continued improvements in credit performance along with solid organic growth in receivables and strong volume growth across all of our networks.
In Direct Banking we continued to deliver good growth in card private student and personal loans and achieved record profits in our Payment Services business and are continuing to expand our network.
I'm very pleased with our 9% year-over-year loan growth which reflects $1.6 billion in card loan growth.
And in private student and personal loans we eclipsed $10 billion in receivables.
In terms of credit card performance we achieved 25-year lows for net charge-off rate and 30-plus delinquency rate demonstrating the quality of our portfolio and the strength of our risk management capabilities.
Before I turn the call over to Mark for some more detail in the financial results I want to mention some recent developments that augur well for future growth and for continued generation of solid shareholder returns.
The first of these was our receipt of the non-objection from the Fed related to our capital plan and proposed capital actions.
In connection with that we announced a new 2-year share repurchase authorization of $2 billion along with our regular quarterly dividend.
I do want to remind you that last quarter we took up the dividend by 67% to its current quarterly level of $0.10 per share and we will review the dividend level at least on an annual basis.
A second recent development for us on the business side was our announcement of a new long-term agreement with the National Payments Corporation of India which runs the RuPay network in India.
Since its founding in 2009 by a consortium of Indian banks NPCI has grown its share of ATM process transactions in India to 95%.
Our new agreement will enable acceptance of Discover and Diners Club International cards at NPCI's ATMs and eventually point-of-sale terminals throughout India.
The agreement will also allow RuPay cardholders to utilize the Discover Diners Club International and PULSE networks for purchases and cash access outside of India.
We expect this arrangement will result in increased transaction volume over time.
I am very pleased that NPCI recognized Discover as the most flexible network and best partner for the future in one of the fastest-growing largest potential customer or countries for payment cards.
At our meeting tomorrow Diane Offereins will have more to say about our global network strategy.
The other very recent announcement that I want to highlight relates to the launch of the first Discover-branded card in the international marketplace by our Diners Club franchise partner in Ecuador.
This is an important strategic development because we believe it will allow us to market-test a model that could eventually become a framework for expanding Discover-branded card issuance into additional countries with what to date has been a purely domestic model.
One final recent announcement was earlier today we announced a new deal with the large network in Puerto Rico and we're excited to tell you more about that tomorrow as well.
We look forward to meeting with you tomorrow where we will share our model for long-term profitable growth and the initiatives that will help us to achieve our goals for 2012 and beyond.
With that I'd like to hand it over to Mark Graf to review our first quarter results.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
I'll begin my comments by focusing on our Direct Banking segment's first quarter results.
The segment earned $962 million pretax this quarter versus $677 million last year.
Reserve releases contributed $226 million to pretax earnings in the quarter as credit continued to improve to a greater degree than we had expected last quarter.
Turning to yield on the card portfolio.
We reported a 44-basis-point decrease from the prior year to 12.21%.
This happened as our higher-priced balances declined and our promotional volumes increased.
These were partially offset by lower interest charge-offs.
We are now including total interest and fee charge-offs in the financial supplement so you don't have to wait for the 10-Q for that disclosure.
Total portfolio yield was 11.36% lower by 74 basis points compared to the first quarter of last year driven primarily by the acquisition of the private student loan portfolios in the first and fourth quarters of last year as well as the card yield compression I just mentioned.
The yield compression was slightly offset by the effect of the sale of federal student loans last month.
Net interest income increased $123 million or 11% versus the prior year driven by asset growth lower charge-offs of accrued interest and the benefit of lower interest expense.
Net interest margin on receivables was 9.03% down 19 basis points compared to the prior year due to the yield compression I mentioned a moment ago partially offset by funding cost improvement.
The modest sequential decrease in net interest margin of 7 basis points was primarily driven by having a full quarter of net interest income from the $2.4 billion in private student loans that we acquired during the fourth quarter along with the corresponding sequential card yield compression.
Again funding cost improvement partially offset this NIM compression.
Absent any inorganic asset mix shifts we expect the net interest margin to stabilize around this level for the remainder of the year as funding cost improvement largely offsets both card yield compression and organic growth in private student loans.
However it's important to note that we also expect student loans to produce much lower average credit losses than we expect to see in the card product.
Other income for the Direct Banking segment decreased $22 million from last year's first quarter due in large part to a $16 million bargain purchase gain related to the SLC acquisition in the prior year period as well as slightly lower protection product revenues.
Higher discount and interchange revenue was partially offset by higher rewards as we increased our rewards rate on card sales to 92 basis points from 86 basis points in the first quarter of last year.
Total operating expenses for the segment were up $82 million over the prior year.
Expenses were up to support completed acquisitions the higher level of loans and higher legal reserves.
The increase in expenses for this quarter reflects investments to further our diversification in Direct Banking and we expect to benefit from these investments as we move further into 2012.
Going forward we'll continue to be diligent on expense management and we'll provide more perspective on our thoughts around operating expenses during our Investor Day tomorrow.
Now I'll switch to lending product growth and credit performance for the segment.
We achieved card sales growth of 7% for the first quarter versus the prior year.
The growth in card sales was driven by our continued focus on increasing our merchant acceptance enriching our rewards programs and leveraging our marketing investments.
Our total loan portfolio grew $4.6 billion with $2.4 billion of this growth attributable to the second accretive private student loan acquisition.
Receivables in our personal loan product were up $764 million from the prior year while our credit card loans were up $1.6 billion.
The sale of our remaining federal student loan portfolio was completed this quarter and is already reflected in the numbers I just provided.
Turning to card credit quality.
Our positive momentum continued this quarter as the card net charge-off rate and 30-plus delinquency rate each declined 17 basis points sequentially.
The card reserve rate decreased 44 basis points as well reflecting a brighter forward 12-month outlook for credit performance which resulted in a $235 million card reserve release.
Going forward we still expect to build reserves at some point in the next 12 months as our loan portfolio continues to grow.
However the underlying economic environment clearly seems to be more constructive at this juncture.
For our private student loan portfolio the net principal charge-off rate excluding our purchased portfolios was 49 basis points.
The charge-offs and delinquencies in our private student loan portfolio were performing according to our expectations.
In terms of personal loan credit performance loans greater than 30 days past due fell 6 basis points sequentially and the personal loan net principal charge-off rate was essentially flat at 2.59%.
On the payment side we had another quarter of record pretax earnings and payment volumes.
Pretax income was up $9 million or 21% from the prior year to $52 million driven by higher-margin point-of-sale volume from our PULSE PIN debit network business.
Volumes were up 8% against the prior year driven by 9% growth in PULSE debit volumes and 15% growth in our third-party issuing volumes.
The increase in third-party issuing volume was driven mostly by spend on Walmart and Sam's Club Cards and higher prepaid volume.
Let's move on to liquidity funding and capital.
Our liquidity levels were strong to end the quarter with total actual and contingent liquidity of $28 billion.
Our liquidity portfolio ended the quarter at $12.1 billion up $1.9 billion from the prior year as we opportunistically pre-funded upcoming maturities including by issuing a $1 billion 3-year ABS deal prior to the quarter's close at a fixed rate of 81 basis points.
Direct-to-consumer deposits are once again our largest source of funding at 46%.
Our funding cost is continuing to fall as we replace higher-cost deposits that we originated in a much higher rate environment.
I'll take you through our expected quarterly maturities for 2012 and 2013 in my presentation tomorrow.
As we've said before we continue to remain opportunistic across all our funding channels by tapping all but not exhausting any of them.
Turning to capital.
For some time now we have benchmarked our key capital ratio as tangible common equity-to-tangible assets with a target of plus or minus 8%.
Going forward we will switch to focusing on our Tier 1 common capital ratio as it better represents how regulators and the industry look at capital levels and we have established a 9.5% long-term target.
We ended the most recent quarter at 14.3%.
We'll address both this new target and our approach to excess capital in more detail tomorrow.
The strength of our capital position allowed us to announce the new $2 billion share repurchase authorization last week after completing the capital review process with our regulators.
We remain focused on returning capital to shareholders via a mix of share repurchases and dividends as well as opportunistic acquisitions at the right price.
That concludes our formal remarks so I'll turn the call back to the operator for the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] We received a question from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on revenues and capital management.
Just first on revenues I was hoping you could just talk Mark about your card yield expectations embedded in the net interest margin expectations for the remainder of the year.
And then secondly on the third-party payments segment it seems like the pretax margin has been expanding at a pretty rapid rate.
Could you just talk about what's happening there? And then just on excess capital I don't want to front-run your comments tomorrow but maybe you can just talk about how you intend to utilize the share repurchase program especially in the context of kind of what you guys did in the first quarter.
Sure.
Absolutely Sanjay.
There was a lot in there.
I'll try and touch on all of them.
Please feel free to catch me if I don't touch all of them.
With respect to expectations for card yield I think we -- we'll be providing some greater detail on that thought during our Investor Day tomorrow so I don't want to jump the gun too much.
But what I would say is we continue to expect to see some continued compression coming primarily from the attrition of some of those higher-rate balances that predate CARD Act.
That is continuing at this point in time.
But we expect the compression resulting from that as well as our other activities to essentially be offset by the funding cost tailwind we've got right now.
Actually on a card yield loan basis it'll more than offset it I think.
So it's -- that's the right way to think about it range it in.
Again a little bit more detail tomorrow.
And then with respect to the share repurchase thoughts we are going to give some guidance around our expectations and cadence in terms of how we'll be looking at that going forward during the Investor Day tomorrow as well.
So I would encourage you to stay tuned because we'll give you some pretty specific thoughts there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just the third-party payment segment and the pretax operating margin there? I'd say we are -- continue to focus on higher-margin business and also get some benefits of scale given the fixed cost as we grow that business.
Our next question comes from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess a question on the reserve.
I guess you released more than most of us had been expecting.
And Mark I think you highlighted a brighter outlook but you said that you will be building as reserves grow.
So I guess I'm just trying to understand the takeaway message in that.
Are you saying that the build is going -- is solely going to be a function of the fact that loans grow? So can we assume that if -- assuming your outlook holds that if re -- if loan balances stay flat that the reserve would stay flat? Yes our current outlook would lead us to conclude that we don't expect to see a turn in credit performance in the forward 12-month period of time.
So yes Ryan you're correctly reading what we're saying in that we expect any reserve build going forward to be directly related to growth in the loan book itself.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just another question.
I think if you look at your loan balances I guess quarter-over-quarter they were down about 1.5%.
If you look in the industry I think they're down sizeably more.
Can you just give a sense of one where you think you're taking market share from? And do you think it's the fact that your portfolio is outperforming is just more a function of some people just have more seasonality in their books? Or you actually think there is some market share benefit happening there? Well Ryan I would say that we tend to look at it year-over-year to remove the seasonality of that and we have been outperforming for quite some period of time.
Part -- I think I'd start with lower charge-off rates.
We're not losing off the top.
And we also believe we have higher customer retention of longtime balances.
So that really helped.
And then obviously we are very focused on acceptance as well as our cash rewards program and enhanced marketing.
So there's no one piece but it all adds up to us growing and many of our competitors working to try to get back to 0.
Our next question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel Consulting.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on the success you've had in your PULSE segment of adding additional issuers around the Dodd-Frank requirement around the exclusivity that starts on April 1? Any meaningful progress there? Well I think that -- you'll recall that this is a 2-step process.
We have to first sign the issuers and then there's new routing rules that go in place in April.
PULSE recently announced that we signed 129 issuers last year which we feel good about and so we feel good about where we stand on that first step.
But I think that there are a lot of -- there's a lot of changes going on in the industry right now so we're going to have to monitor that carefully over the coming months too.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a second question would be just can you give us an update David on credit card loan demand? What you're seeing on the frontlines from your consumers? And we seeing good spending volume and loan growth for Discover this quarter is a little bit ahead of our expectations.
But I think you've been dealing [ph] pretty cautious on the outlook for loan growth.
Any change to that over the last 3 months? And any commentary on uptake of Tier 3 [ph] offers would be helpful.
I wouldn't say that I've seen any dramatic change in trend over the last quarter.
We continue to see sales growing obviously faster than loans.
But consumers are continuing to expand spending but they've kind of finished their deleveraging process and I don't see them certainly expanding dramatically their debt at a greater pace.
So I think it's a slow steady increase.
I personally expect the industry to eventually return to growth at about GDP growth and I think that's going to be more driven by sales than by future rates or balance transfers which was the other part of your question.
I haven't seen a big change on that.
Our next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
Can you give us some color in terms of what you saw in the way of -- any changes in spending during the quarter? And I guess I wasn't clear on how much of the spending growth was attributable to new cards and -- and then new cards in the quarter and new cards over the last year.
And then did the changes in gasoline prices have much of an effect on overall spending growth this quarter? Well you saw our spend growth year-over-year will be pretty stable this last quarter as well as the quarter before.
I don't -- a lot of this increase in gas prices really happened towards the end of the quarter so I wouldn't say there was anything that really -- I don't think that was a huge driver.
And frankly I -- during the quarter we saw a lot of continuation of the trend that I've seen and that we've seen in previous 2 quarters with gradual improvement across multiple spending categories.
So existing cardholders spending at -- growing spending about the same rate as the average for the portfolio? Yes.
A good amount of -- probably the majority of this -- of our spend increase tends to be from existing customers.
We are putting on new customers at a somewhat higher rate but I wouldn't say dramatically so.
So I think we're seeing a pretty balanced improvement across categories across current and new customers and obviously still focused more on the better-credit-quality higher-FICO-score customers if you will.
I mean that's one place I will see a little more robustness.
And then sorry could you just remind us how much you had in soft loans that you sold during the quarter? And was there any gain on that sale? No there was no gain on that.
And the remaining portion in the held-for-sale was around $700 million.
So you sold the whole -- that $720 million whatever it was that...
Correct.
Our next question comes from Mark DeVries from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Mark I know you addressed some of these at a high level some of the expense items.
But is there anything specifically you can point to on the other expense line and the employee comp that causes it to be up meaningfully? Yes I wouldn't say -- if you look at the other other expense line Mark there's a number of different pieces moving around in there.
One is clearly year-over-year.
You have the full integration of the Student Loan or the continued integration of student loan business and significant increased expenses related to that as well as some increases related to some of the new business initiatives that we'll be talking about pretty extensively at our Investor Day tomorrow.
The other thing obviously that shows up in other other is the litigation reserve.
And I would say it's -- that a meaningful portion of the year-over-year increase in that other other piece is due to reserves related to litigation and regulatory matters.
And I'd point you back to our 10-K disclosures on that one.
There's a number of litigation matters we're involved in currently and by policy we don't tend to talk about them specifically.
So I can't really provide any further color.
But that's kind of where I take it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then rewards picked up a little bit as a percentage of interchange revenue discount revenue.
Is -- does this represent kind of a new run rate? Are you still seeing a little bit of upward inflation in rewards expense? Yes I think as we look at the reward expense line item we guided last quarter we thought it will be somewhat higher this quarter.
Indeed it was.
I think as we look at where we are right now for the remainder of the year we think we'll be somewhere in this general range.
We've got the ability to be slightly higher possibly but somewhere around the range where we are right now feels about right to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And can you give us an update on kind of where you stand as far as the mix of promotional balances versus standard and your default pricing bucket? Harit is going to be speaking about that directly in his section during the Investor Day tomorrow so I don't want to steal his thunder.
Our next question comes from John Stilmar from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions the first of which and maybe this is also for tomorrow I was wondering if you might be able to touch a little bit more about your really impressive move with regards to recoveries and that you still continue to show growth in recovery dollars despite your continued cautiousness here.
I'm wondering if you can kind of give us a little -- some color as to what pockets you're seeing and -- because it certainly define the lag conditions relative to previous charge-offs that we had certainly talked about.
And then my second question is where is pricing today in private student loans? I was wondering if you could just give us the average private student loans that were originated this quarter.
Well I'm just trying to get a sense for where we are in terms of the pricing environment.
Well I'll handle the first one.
I don't -- I'm sorry why don't you do the second one? Yes go ahead please.
Well repeat the first -- the first question was? Recoveries.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Recoveries.
Recoveries.
I'm sorry.
Sorry I was thinking about your second one.
A big part of it is just our recovery.
Our total inventory of the charge-off dollars is still very significant from the last few years.
And I think that as some people go back to work or have a desire to repay some of the loans I think we've been pleasantly surprised by some of that debt over the last few years that is at least partially repaid.
I wouldn't point you to any specific pocket or strategy.
Maybe Jim will be able to shed a little more light on it tomorrow.
But I will say the big factor is just large inventories on which we're parking.
Mark on the second one.
Yes in terms of the yield on the student loan Portfolio I'd say it came down about 105 basis points year-over-year.
That was principally due to the addition of the $2.5 billion in private student loans that we closed on September 30.
They came on at a much lower yield but also a much lower loss expectation than we had in the first acquisition.
So that had some impact there.
And I would say sequentially the yield decreased about 46 basis points because you only have the impact of that $2.5 billion acquisition in parts of last -- the last quarter.
And so it fully kicked in.
You had the full impact of it this quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was just curious in terms of new loans that you've originated in the quarter that may not have shown up like just the absolute coupon that you put on the books this past quarter.
I was wondering if you have that available.
I don't have it at my fingertips but we'll be happy to address it tomorrow for you.
Our next question comes from Craig Maurer from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Mark in light of the multi-decade lows you're seeing in credit quality metrics can you comment on where new card volumes might fit in with the current metrics as they season what your expectations are? David do you want to take the first stab at that and I'll follow on? I would say that the larger improvements on credit quality have probably come from more of the base.
And we've seen maybe less dramatic of an improvement on the newest vintages originated in the last few years.
But we are still seeing some improvements even on those new vintages.
And it's probably partly related on us refining our models and maybe partly environmentally things are starting to improve a bit more.
Yes.
I mean as we look -- as I indicated earlier as we look at our 12-month forward loss forecast we continue to be surprised as the quarter rolls up and a new quarter rolls on at the fact just the performance continues to look very very solid going forward.
With respect to specifically where we think credit trends look over the course of the cycle if you will as opposed to spot at this point in time Jim Panzarino is going to provide some pretty significant detail around that at our Investor Day tomorrow.
I think it's fair to say that -- that it's -- we view it as likely good news not bad news.
Let's put it that way.
Our next question comes from Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe just trying to follow up on that question on normalized credit losses if you will.
And I -- where -- more tomorrow.
I don't want to go too far.
But the -- I mean your return on equity is obviously way above your goals even after you adjust for reserves.
The industry is generating substantial excess capital above normalized levels I think now.
I mean don't you expect that credit losses would kind of normalize back at historical -- I mean would 5% be kind of around where you would expect normalized credit losses to be through a cycle? Yes Bobby I think it's a good question and a difficult one to answer because I think we're in new territory at this point.
We used to say 5% to 6% losses in credit cards over the cycle and I think that there's been enough structural changes in the industry between deleveraging consolidated industry.
You just don't have all the sub-prime players out there that used to have an impact on everyone.
Even the CARD Act had a certain impact on it.
And so -- and I think even consumer behavior has actually taken a shift after coming through this cycle.
Consumers are more cautious and that will show up in lower losses over time.
So if I had to guess I would say eventually we're going to see more like 4% to 5% being kind of a range of normalization.
And I think it's going to maybe take longer than we might have expected to get there.
Mark originally -- earlier today he said "Look over the next 12 months we're not going to -- we're not really seeing any signs." I mean we're seeing signs of maybe approaching a bottom but you saw both our delinquencies and charge-off rates this quarter still improve." So it indicates we're not quite at the bottom yet but we should be getting close.
And so -- but I wouldn't see anything that would dramatically take it up and I would say it's probably going to be a while before we -- if it's going to go back to 4% or 5% it's going to be a while we think.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
The share repurchase approval the extension I mean how -- I mean you have a lot of capital.
How aggressive are you going to be on buying back shares? Or I mean are you looking at acquisitions that would make you a little more cautious on the rate of share repurchase? Yes what I would say is we're going to go into that in some detail tomorrow.
So I'm unfortunately going to hold my comments on that one and make you wait 12 hours or so for that one.
But I think it's fair to say we intend to be very disciplined overall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question.
The federal loans you sold who did you sell them to? And was there a gain on the sale in the quarter? I'm not sure we've disclosed to the results and I don't know legally if the contract allows us to.
So I won't go there.
But I know there was no gain nor loss of any significance on the sale of those loans.
The next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Kind of along the lines of the -- a prior question about normalized credit losses any thoughts about kind of going either a little deeper or changing credit criteria to push balance growth faster? Is this anything -- is that something that's thought about? Or how do you discuss that? It'll -- what I would say is that if we can find expansion areas where we can still get prime credit performance we would certainly seek to expand our criteria in those areas.
I think we don't have the appetite to kind of go sub-prime if you will.
But certainly some of the changes we're seeing suggest that there may be -- may indeed be some sales where we could approve someone that will -- in fact our -- that prime credit performance that we're looking for.
But we're -- as you know from our reputation and results we're going to be cautious on this.
Our next question comes from Brad Ball from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about your experience in terms of organic private student loan growth and what your outlook is for private student loan growth and also personal loan growth? I think last year we said that we were targeting $1 billion-plus of organic growth and I'd say we're on track to achieve that.
Research Division</strong> On track for $1 billion annually? Well we said for this year.
But certainly what I would expect is that this business we may be able to ramp up by even a little bit more over time.
But we do think it's $1 billion-plus kind of a year business for us -- growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I wonder if you can comment.
Senator Durbin has been holding hearings to discuss removing the non-dischargeability of private student loans.
Well if that were to go through what kind of impact would that have on your business? Well just one thing quickly.
And I don't know you may have asked student and personal loans before and the $1 billion-plus is just personal -- just student loans and then personal loans will be something greater than that.
In terms of the dischargeability in bankruptcy it -- there's not -- I don't expect anything to happen real quickly if at all in this area.
But if it did it would depend on exactly how.
Is it immediately dischargeable? So when someone graduates and they haven't even had time to start making money they could walk away? Or would it be after 5 years they could be dischargeable? So I think the precise way it happened would matter.
But I'd also say we have relatively low losses in this.
So it -- I don't think -- I think it will certainly change how we think about pricing going forward but I don't think it would totally undermine the business model.
Certainly the fact that most of our loans are cosigned I think gives us some protection from anything too dramatic.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one separate question.
What proportion of your balances your card balances are currently on promotional rates? That will be disclosed by Harit tomorrow.
It's a big part of his presentation.
We don't want to steal his thunder.
Our next question comes from Daniel Furtado from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Martin Kemnec in for Dan Furtado.
I also have a question on recovery levels.
So building off of John's earlier question.
I mean you guys have obviously continued to recapture your previous losses at a pretty impressive rate.
I guess what I'm try to focus on is there some type of a limitation on how far the look-back is there on that? I mean generally speaking after an account is charged off what type of timeframe are we looking at for recovery? I mean obviously there's legal statutes around that.
But if you have any guidance that'd be helpful? Recoveries is a very broad focus.
And so for -- and one of the reasons that we tend to have high -- our recoveries have held up is that unlike many of our competitors we haven't sold things.
And so within recoveries for instance are people who went through Chapter 13 bankruptcy and signed up for a prepayment plan.
And then that's somewhat of an annuity that lasts for many years after that.
Many of our competitors sold that off in past years especially as losses peaked.
We didn't sell any.
And so you get a whole variety of these and some of these could be loans from quite some time ago that have been on a regular repayment plan but are counted as recoveries because we wrote them off.
It could be 5 years-plus ago.
We've actually also been investing very heavily in that area.
We've got some what we think are some unique techniques we're utilizing on the collection side.
Some of the expense growth you've seen happened toward that part of that business and we think it's a vindication and validation of that paying off.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Excellent excellent.
And then building off of Mark's question on rewards expense thanks for the guidance on where you guys see that.
I mean stepping back more broadly are you guys still seeing competition act rationally with respect to rewards offerings? Or how do you guys kind of frame that up? I think it's a tough one to answer.
There's -- we do think that some of our competitors are probably in our view spending reward dollars at unsustainably high levels.
And -- but they're -- if you look back over time the history is that people have tended to put up reward programs find out that they're kind of expensive and then back off and devalue.
And a number of competitors have done that.
Our approach has been to have a sustainable program that gives great value to consumers and -- but is still -- is also affordable by us.
We also have Matthew Howlett from Macquarie.
Just on the creation of the CFPV any more -- I know it's in development.
But any more clarity of what you'd expect out of that department if anything? Well I think I mean it's been operational since summer's -- last summer so I wouldn't say it's totally in development.
But I -- it also is continuing to gain experience and we're continuing to gain experience with the CFPV [ph].
And all I could say is that we look to have a very constructive dialogue.
And our understanding is that they want to factually based.
And if that's how things proceed we think we've got good facts.
So we'll just have constructive dialogue with them.
I mean as it stands now do you see any major impact on first of all marketing or even pricing? And since -- I mean are they -- do you foresee potentially them coming in and so asking to -- kind of adjustings [ph] on those 2 topics or anything else that could really affect the business model? I just wouldn't want to speculate.
Got you okay.
And then just on the student loans I mean great performance so far.
Anything that you're seeing on the repayment when the loans hit the repayment side? I mean anything out of the ordinary in terms of defaults? Or is that just sort of coming in in line? I'd say that the repayments and delinquencies and charge-offs are pretty in line with our expectations.
That was our last question.
I'd like to turn it back over to you for any closing remarks.
Thanks Hilda.
I just want to thank all of you for your questions and your attention this evening and we are really excited about tomorrow morning's meeting and look forward to either seeing all of you in person or if not then certainly on the webcast.
So thanks and have a good evening.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Discover Financial Services Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Larissa and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Bill Franklin.
Mr.
Franklin you may begin.
Thank you Larissa.
Good morning everyone and welcome to this morning's call.
Let me begin by reminding everyone that the discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report and in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2011 which is on file with the SEC.
In the second quarter 2012 earnings release and supplement which are now posted on our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer; and of course a question-and-answer session.
I would encourage you that it would be helpful to limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Before the market opened this morning we reported quarterly earnings of $537 million or an even $1 per diluted share driven by 6% year-over-year increase in revenues and continued improvements in credit.
Additionally we returned a significant amount of capital to shareholders with combined share buybacks and dividends of approximately $500 million in the quarter.
In Direct Banking we continued to deliver strong growth in card private student and personal loans and launched some new products for future growth.
I'm very pleased with our total loan growth of 9% over the prior year which reflects another quarter of nearly 4% growth in card loans as we continue to focus on profitable revolver sales through cash rewards leadership promotional offers partnerships and advertising.
We continue to achieve strong receivables growth while the overall card industry remains relatively flat.
In terms of credit card performance the strength of our risk management capabilities and the quality of our portfolio resulted in new historic lows for the 30-plus delinquency and net charge-off rates.
The 30-plus delinquency rate fell below 2% and our 90-plus delinquency rate fell to below 1%.
This is truly outstanding credit performance.
Also in card we recently announced our first affinity partnership with Ducks Unlimited the largest conservation group in the world with more than 600 000 adult members committed to wetlands and waterfowl conservation.
This partnership will leverage our leading rewards program and be a nice addition for new account and sales growth.
In student loans we started offering a new fixed-rate private student loan product.
This new fixed-rate loan product provides predictability with a set interest rate for the life of the loan.
Discover's fixed-rate private student loans are designed to have rates comparable to federal unsubsidized Stafford and PLUS Loans for qualifying students without the upfront origination fees of up to 4%.
It is too early to tell how much long-term growth will come from this offering as it has been in the market for less than a month but the early signs from customers and school financial aid officers are positive.
The third new product that we just started marketing is residential mortgages under the Discover Home Loans brand.
On June 6 we start -- we closed on the acquisition of the Home Loan Center business from Tree.com.
The platform we acquired had a seasoned -- has a seasoned management team approximately 750 employees and a technology platform that gives us room to expand in the future.
We are originating prime fixed- and variable-rate conventional and FHA loans which will be sold to the secondary market with servicing released.
Home Loans is a product our customers have been asking Discover for and the mortgage business is a natural extension of our Direct Banking strategy.
We are entering this market in a sensible way having acquired a platform at low-cost without the complexities of MSRs or legacy assets.
After we launch the checking product later this year I believe we will have achieved another key milestone toward building a full suite of Direct Banking products.
In Payments PULSE growth was up 14% over the prior year to an all-time record of $42 billion.
As we have discussed previously PULSE added 129 new relationships in 2011.
However merchant and acquirer routing discussions are still in process and competitors' pricing changes are still being implemented in the market.
We continue to remain concerned about one competitor's actions in the market but that being said I am pleased with how our PULSE team has responded.
In summary credit performance continues to be exceptional but we continue to expect that we must be at or near the bottom.
We are launching new products which will position us for revenue and asset growth in the future and we are deploying capital in a thoughtful meaningful way.
With that I'll turn it over to Mark to review our second quarter results.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
I'll begin my comments by focusing on our Direct Banking segment's second quarter results.
The segment earned $820 million pretax this quarter versus $883 million last year.
Yield on the card portfolio declined 22 basis points from the prior year to 12.35%.
We continue to see our APR mix move away from higher APR balances but at a slower pace than we expected.
And our promotional volumes increased over the prior year.
These were partially offset by lower interest charge-offs.
Sequentially card yield increased 14 basis points as we saw higher revolve rate in our merchandise balances and as we continue to benefit from lower accrued interest charge-offs.
Total portfolio yield was 11.55% lower by 38 basis points compared to the second quarter of last year driven primarily by the acquisition of the additional private student loan portfolio in the fourth quarter as well as the current yield compression that I just mentioned.
I'll remind you that while private student loans have lower yields than cards and personal loans they also have lower charge-off rates and operating expenses.
The yield compression was slightly offset by the sale of our remaining federal student loans in the first quarter of this year.
Net interest income increased $122 million or 10% versus the prior year driven by asset growth the benefit of lower interest expense on our funding and lower charge-offs of accrued interest.
Net interest margin on receivables was up 16 basis points to 9.31% compared to the prior year due to lower charge-offs of accrued interest and continued funding cost improvement.
In fact funding costs are down 50 basis points versus the prior year to 2.41% as a percentage of average receivables.
This was partially offset by card yield compression and growth in lower-yielding private student loans.
The sequential increase in net interest margin of 28 basis points was primarily driven by yield expansion across all assets and lower funding costs.
We expect the net interest margin to stabilize around the current level for the remainder of the year primarily as result of card yield holding up better than expected.
Other income for the Direct Banking segment decreased $21 million from last year's second quarter as a result of lower late fees lower transition services revenue related to the Student Loan Corporation and a decline in protection products revenue.
The largest component of other income discount and interchange revenue was up compared to the prior year but offset by higher rewards as we modestly increased our rewards rate on card sales to 95 basis points.
Rewards should be in this area for the remainder of the year as we continue to invest in our program to drive profitable sales growth and feel this is the right level in this environment.
Total operating expenses for the segment were up $108 million from the prior year or 18%.
This growth was primarily due to a $71 million increase in legal reserve expenses over the prior year as we added $90 million to the reserve in the quarter.
Excluding the increase in legal reserve expenses operating expenses would have been up 6% compared to the prior year which was essentially in line with revenue growth and would imply flat operating leverage.
For the second half of the year we do expect marketing and business development expenses to increase relating to the timing of some marketing campaigns.
The acquisition of the Home Loan Center platform and launch of Discover Home Loans will also raise operating expenses by about $35 million a quarter.
But with the new product launch there will also be fee revenue.
Now I'll switch to lending product growth and credit performance for the segment.
We achieved card sales growth of 5% for the second quarter versus the prior year.
The growth in card sales was driven by our continued focus on increasing our merchant acceptance enriching our rewards programs and leveraging our marketing investments.
Lower year-over-year increases in gas prices as well as more difficult comps resulted in slightly lower card sales growth than in the prior quarter year-over-year increase.
Our total loan portfolio grew $4.5 billion with $2.4 billion of this growth attributable to the accretive private student loan acquisition in the fourth quarter of last year.
Credit card loans were up $1.6 billion and personal loan receivables were up $703 million from the prior year.
Turning to card credit quality our positive momentum continued this quarter as the net charge-off rate declined 28 basis points versus the prior quarter and the 30-plus delinquency rate declined 31 basis points sequentially.
The card reserve rate decreased 32 basis points as well which resulted in a $122 million card reserve release.
In private student loans the net principal charge-off rate excluding our purchased portfolios was 67 basis points.
The charge-offs in delinquencies in our private student loan portfolio are performing according to our expectations and will continue to rise slightly as the portfolio seasons.
In terms of personal loan credit performance loans greater than 30 days past due fell 2 basis points sequentially.
And the personal loan net principal charge-off rate was down 35 basis points.
The improvement can be attributed to portfolio growth and risk initiatives.
We continue to focus on thoughtful measured growth in this asset class by leveraging our established underwriting competencies.
Shifting to the Payment side we had another quarter of strong pretax earnings and Payment volumes.
Pretax income was up $4 million or 10% from the prior year to $47 million driven by higher-margin point-of-sale volume from our PULSE PIN debit network business and third-party issuing volume.
Higher contra revenues had an offsetting impact as incentives paid for transaction routing preference increased from the prior year.
Volumes were up 12% against the prior year driven by 14% growth in PULSE and 19% growth in our Discover Network third-party issuing volumes offset partly by Diners Club performance.
Let's move on to liquidity funding and capital.
Our liquidity levels remain strong with total available liquidity of $27.6 billion at the end of the quarter.
Our on balance sheet liquidity portfolio ended the quarter at $11.3 billion up $2.6 billion from the prior year but down from the end of the first quarter.
As you may recall at the end of the first quarter we had prefunded a large volume of second quarter maturities.
While direct-to-consumer deposits continue to be our largest source of funding we remain opportunistic across all of our funding channels.
During the quarter we completed an unsecured debt exchange through which we traded approximately 80% or $322 million of our 10.25% senior notes due in 2019 for a new 5.2% senior notes due in 2022.
While the exchange offer had a slightly negative impact on results for the quarter it will deliver a pretax benefit of approximately $8 million per year over the coming years.
Additionally we completed a 2-tranche ABS transaction after the quarter closed.
The deal included a 3-year $800 million tranche priced at a fixed coupon of 86 basis points and a $650 million 5-year floating rate tranche priced at one month LIBOR plus 37 basis points.
Turning to capital we ended the quarter with a 14% Tier 1 common ratio slightly lower than last quarter as we repurchased nearly $450 million worth of shares in the quarter.
These buybacks included the completion of our previously disclosed $250 million accelerated share repurchase program.
With that let me conclude with a few final comments.
In the second quarter credit improvement and strong revenue growth paired with controlled operating expense growth generated strong earnings.
We are continuing to invest in our business through new products and global acceptance and believe these investments position us well for the future.
We're continuing to return capital to shareholders with more than 2% of our shares repurchased last quarter and a $0.10 per share dividend which we've committed to revisit at least annually.
Before opening up to questions I want to take a moment to formally announce and congratulate Bill Franklin on his recent promotion to Vice President and Head of Investor Relations.
I think most of you had the chance to interact with Bill as he's been a key part of our IR team over the past several years.
His knowledge of the company and the function made him a logical choice to take the helm of our program.
That concludes our formal remarks.
So now I'll turn the call back to the operator to open up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW is online with a question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I have 2 questions.
I'm going to ask them upfront.
So first one this is the third straight quarter where I think you guys took this charge for legal.
I assume it was largely PPI-related but could you just talk about where we are in the investigation and if we should expect additional impacts in the future? And then secondarily on capital management just on the share buyback the roughly $450 million that you guys repurchased this quarter is that a good quarterly run rate to expect in the future or was part of this quarter's accelerated purchase related to last quarter? And then maybe could you just talk about the M&amp;A pipeline as well.
Sure.
There was a bunch in there Sanjay but I'll be happy to tackle it here and I'll let David drop in too on the M&amp;A pipeline probably.
But with respect to the legal reserve matter I think the matter is not resolved.
We are engaged in an ongoing dialogue with the CFPB and the FDIC and we hope we can resolve it soon.
It's a constructive dialogue.
We obviously reserve in accordance with GAAP and the reserve is set based on probable and estimable loss contingencies.
So I think beyond that I'd just point you to the back of the disclosures in our first quarter 10-Q as they contain a pretty fulsome discussion of the significant matters.
But given that it's an ongoing investigation that's really about all we can say.
With respect to the buybacks I would say that there -- the $450 million probably included a little bit of catch-up activity from being dark in the market in the first quarter while we went through the capital planning process.
I'd still remain pretty confident in my guidance but over the course of fiscal 2012 we'll probably use a little bit north of half of that authorization is probably the right way to think about it.
So that should give you some sense in terms of how to think about sizing what our thoughts are right now.
That's obviously our current thought.
That's subject to change from time to time but that's kind of how we're looking at it at this point in time.
And on the M&amp;A pipeline David do you want to specifically comment there? Sure.
Well I'd say first off obviously we're pleased to have just closed our Home Loan acquisition and so our primary focus will be integrating and growing that acquisition.
And we remain open to other opportunities that fit our Direct Banking and Payment strategy and work financially.
But we obviously have been very selective and careful but would remain open to future opportunities.
I can't really comment any further on M&amp;A pipeline per se.
The only other thing I would type onto that one is because I know it's important to all of you I get asked regularly how we look at return hurdles when it comes to M&amp;A transactions and obviously we do hold them up to a higher standard because of the risk embedded in any M&amp;A-type transaction.
So I'd just add that to David's comments.
Craig Maurer is online from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> My questions revolve around one David's comments around one competitor's actions in the market when referring to network activity.
I'm assuming that's Visa and if you could be a little bit more specific about what their actions are that you're seeing and what's concerning you.
And secondly we heard comments on the NIM through 2012 but when looking out toward next year should we start to see the lower-yielding loans start to catch up with the NIM? Well I'll address the first one.
I mean obviously in debit one competitor represents 70% of the market share.
So when one -- when a 70% market share competitor makes moves tying products together and launching a fixed-variable pricing designed to take advantage of that 70% market share we become -- we and many others in the industry become concerned about having a level playing field.
Having a level playing field I'm very confident in PULSE's ability to compete and bring choice and good financial performance for our financial institution customers as well as our merchants.
But obviously there's a Department of Justice has launched an investigation so we're not the only ones who have some concerns.
Mark? Yes on the net interest margin side of the equation I would still say over the longer term the right way to think about a normalized margin for us is in that 8.5% to 9% range.
I think we've proven that we are not adept at forecasting the compression and the current yields in that higher-rate bucket that we have out there at this point in time.
So as that is taking longer I think it will take longer to reach that normalized range.
That having been said as we move into next year Craig I do expect we'll start migrating down toward the high end of that range.
Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just Mark in terms of the credit I know you've talked about the losses bouncing around the bottom and David commented that losses are at or near the bottom.
But just sort of I looked at your early stage delinquencies they're down almost 20% the past 5 months.
And I know some of that is seasonal but is it fair to say that we could actually see losses come down from here just given where we are on the delinquency trends? Yes Ryan I mean I think it's plausible that that could happen.
I think as I've said several times one of the challenges we have obviously is we're in a tail environment having just come through what we've come through.
And so everybody's models are a little bit less predictive than they otherwise might be.
So I would suggest that it feels like we must be approaching a bottom somewhere in here.
Could it possibly improve? It could.
Could it possibly flatten out? It could.
Our operation of math on the delinquency side of the equation would lead a logical person to kind of the conclusion you're making.
But that notwithstanding we do see some absolute limits to how low these things can go.
So we tend to think about being somewhere near the bottom in the improvement.
We still think we'll return to growth at some point in time over let's say now the next 9 months in the reserve.
That growth being driven though not by a turn in the credit environment that growth being driven simply by loan growth.
So provision for growth being the key issue there.
So I still think it's likely we -- when we hit a bottom we don't bounce off in a V.
I think it's more likely bouncing along the bottom for a while.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on Sanjay's question on the buyback.
You did almost 25% of your authorization the 2-year authorization in one quarter.
Are there any restrictions in terms of the amount that you could actually buy back within -- into the one-year time frame? I know some others have commented on that specific to Fed guidelines.
And also in terms of the 9.5% capital target and this is the first quarter we actually saw the Tier 1 common actually come down and I know Mark you've commented not wanting to see it grow further.
So can we read across that this is actually the start of you guys shoring it down maybe you get a little bit more aggressive on as we move throughout the year? Yes I would say with respect to restrictions I'd point you back to my commentary about using probably a little bit more than half over the course of this year of that authorization.
And you should assume that our capital plan submission to the Fed allows us to act in a manner compliant with that guidance.
So that would be the general thought process I'd have you think about there.
The other thing I would say in response to managing accretion going forward I think yes the right way to think about this very much is that I think we returned a little bit north of 90% roughly in terms of total payout this quarter which I think is pretty high.
Clearly the goal at this point in time while we're in this period of obviously very strong earnings at the very least mitigate further accretion on that capital line.
So I think you should expect to see us act in that basis if not begin to draw down a little bit.
Moshe Orenbuch from Crédit Suisse is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the other way you could affect that capital ratio is by growing faster.
Could you talk a little bit -- you alluded to the Ducks Unlimited program.
And talk about the things that you're doing to kind of grow the receivables in an organic fashion a little faster.
And I've got a follow-up question also.
Well I would say if you look at our overall 9% year-over-year loan growth I think we're near the top of the class in terms of being able to achieve growth and you've seen us do that through a combination of some M&amp;A with particularly student loans as well as organic both in credit card loans growing 4% organically as well as personal loans growing nicely organically.
So we've got a whole host of actions that we've been employing in terms of marketing programs emphasizing Cashback Bonus leveraging our newfound capabilities in student loans and our expanded capabilities in student loans and really having some what I consider to be some good advertising and marketing programs plus our great service.
Going forward I mentioned 3 new product areas that each I think have an opportunity to continue and in some cases maybe accelerate our growth ranging from the first affinity program which we think will be a good opportunity in cards.
That space that affinity space has changed dramatically in the last few years.
Service is critically important to groups and group members and so we think we're well positioned to help address that marketplace.
So the fixed-loan product in student loans is designed to help us accelerate growth in that area and meet some new needs.
And obviously Home Loans won't be growing receivables but over the long term should grow our fee income.
So we are continuing to diversify across our Direct Banking and Payment strategy in an effort to grow.
We've got obviously -- we'd love to be able to invest more capital in organic growth.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up you had mentioned Mark a $35 million kind of expense level for the mortgage business in the next quarter.
How long will it take for the revenues to kind of meet or exceed that level? Yes I think the right way to think about it Moshe is that it's going to be not meaningful either in terms of detracting or contributing to the overall profitability of the company in the near term.
So think about it as a breakeven kind of operation is the right way to look about -- is the right way to think about it.
Scott Valentin from FBR Capital Markets is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just on the marketing expense you mentioned it's going to increase going forward as you have some I guess some activities planned.
Would the rate of increase be consistent with last year? And then just overall a follow-up question to that just the overall operating expenses.
You mentioned the operating leverage this quarter.
Do you expect to continue positive operating leverage going forward? I would say the marketing expenses yes probably the right way to think about it is somewhat in line with the seasonality that you would have seen in the prior years.
And in terms of -- maybe a little bit higher.
But in terms of the operating leverage I would say right now continue to see that being essentially flattish over the course of the year is the right way to think about it as some of the investments we've made over the course of the last year begin to ramp up.
And I think we've made meaningful progress against what were some pretty significant negative operating leverage over the course of the last year.
Don Fandetti from Citigroup is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Yes Mark obviously on your mortgage initiative it's going to be pretty modest initially.
But if you sort of hit this $30 billion aspirational number of originations down the road can you just sort of help us think about the level of capital that that business requires? I know you only hold the loans for sort of 15 to 30 days.
But I would assume at that type of origination level you'd have a couple billion dollars of debt at the end of any given quarter.
And how do you think about equity capital against that business? David I'll let you address the vision for the business and I'll tackle the GAAP.
How about that? Yes well I think that we cited probably the leader in direct mortgage originations who has been originating north of $30 billion a year.
And given our brand customer base and service capabilities we think it's not unreasonable that eventually we get there.
But that being said we've bought a platform.
We're going to have very measured growth here and so I would be expecting us to reach anywhere near that level of originations in the near term.
In terms of capital it's not a particularly capital-intensive business.
One reason we like it is it's a high source of fee income.
But anything you'd like to add on that Mark? No I think you're thinking about it the right way.
The goal is to clean out the warehouse about every 15 days or so give or take.
The platform originated $3 billion of volume in 2011.
So that's kind of the run rate that's coming onto the books if you will if you want to think about it or somewhere in that general neck of the woods.
And obviously cleaning out that warehouse on a 15-day basis does not result in us having any significant capital side up in that business at any point in time.
And the $30 billion is aspirational.
Mark DeVries from Barclays is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Yes my question is around what's priced into the card reserve here.
As I look at that the 3.68% reserve rate but with the charge-offs below 2.8% and delinquencies down 30 basis points this quarter which points to lower charge-offs the next quarter or 2 it would seem to me like that rate is too high.
Can you just kind of talk about sort of back half of -- or the early part of next year what your expectations are for charge-offs that would lead to such a high reserve rate? Yes I mean I think it's kind of hard obviously to get you the right answer there because the data that you've got available to you is all historical backward-looking data but our reserves are set on a prospective basis based on what we see happening.
And again a big part of that reserves is reserves not for charge-offs; a big part of that reserve is reserve for growth that we expect to see coming onto the books here over the course of the near-term as well.
So there's a number of different moving pieces there.
So what I would say is that again we don't expect the increase in reserves that we expect to see over that 12-month forward period coming as much from losses.
We don't expect to see it coming from losses.
We really expect to see more of it coming from growth in the book.
And with respect to the current reserve it obviously reflects what we expect in charge-offs from loans that are currently on the books.
And as Mark's mentioned we feel like we're somewhere near the bottom and so would be forecasting a modest increase in charge-offs over the forward 12-month period which is why we end up with a -- what you see is a -- might be is a higher coverage ratio on the current quarter.
It's a very low level of loan losses.
Research Division</strong> And any kind of colors on what type of growth is reflected on that? Because we're still talking about a pretty big delta between where the charge-offs are now and where the reserves are.
Well I would just say that it assumes -- as we look at all the variables and there's a lot there's obviously different reserves for different parts of the books so it's a complicated calculation obviously that we work very hard to fine-tune but reflects what I would characterize is over the 12 -- forward 12 months a modest increase in charge-off rate.
Yes I would think about the growth being in line really with the model we shared at Investor Day for each of the various and sundry different asset classes.
Rick Shane from JPMorgan is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> A lot going on.
Hey Mark just one quick question for you.
You had talked about the increase on delinquencies on the student loan book being a function of seasoning and it's a little bit out of whack with what you would expect from a seasonality perspective.
Can you -- you also made the comment that you see this is in line with your overall projections.
Can you help us understand how long you think that seasoning will go on so that we can have a sense and benchmark this to see how things are going as well? Yes.
I would say the comment really reflects the fact that we've had a significant portion of our portfolio that has been in the deferral phase where the student has still been in school or immediately out of school where they have not yet begun repayment.
So obviously during that period of time they can't by definition be delinquent.
So what happens is you have a larger portion of your book begin to creep into that repayment phase is when you start to see the delinquencies begin to materialize.
And I think the right way to think about it is we continue to believe this business operates kind of right at or above sort of give or take a 1% loss rate annualized going forward is the right way to think about it.
And the delinquencies would be commensurate with that type of a loss rate.
So -- but we can give you some more color going forward on exactly how we kind of expect that trajectory to blend out.
Robert Napoli from William Blair &amp; Company is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First just a little more color on the spend growth through the quarter and thoughts on spend growth.
I mean your spend growth on cards for the proprietary portfolio about 5% which I mean you had tougher comps.
But it's about in line with portfolio growth at 4%.
Do you expect spend growth to track along with portfolio growth from here? Well I would expect spend growth to continue to be a bit more than loan growth.
We've seen that in normal periods for quite some period of time.
And I think that since we really started getting what I'd consider tougher comparable year-over-year comparisons probably in December of this year and since December I've seen a fair amount of stability bouncing around in that -- right around the 5% to 6% year-over-year if you look at the months since December.
So I generally expect that kind of growth level to roughly continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on your affinity on your discussions on affinity David I think that's --  I mean you have some background in the affinity business with MBNA.
MBNA was a massive affinity player and it's probably a shadow -- I mean it is a shadow of what it used to be.
And I mean do you see a big opportunity here to -- in the market to really recreate the MBNA strategy of sorts? Or I mean is this a big effort for Discover to move in that direction? I would view it as not our primary strategy but an extension of our strategy.
Certainly one of things that we really have is our own brand Discover where we're the leader in Cashback Bonus.
That will continue to be our primary strategy.
I think that over the last few years we have gotten an increasing interest in demand from groups who are not currently satisfied with their current providers whoever that might be.
And I think we have now stuck our toe in the water with Ducks Unlimited.
We're going to focus on doing a great job with them.
And I wouldn't look to have anything overall.
We're not -- this is not a change in our strategy in any way but rather a natural extension.
And like most of our -- like our other efforts we will have controlled -- test and control and grow things as appropriate based on what we learn.
So there's no target to sign a whole bunch of new affinity groups over the next quarter or anything like that.
Daniel Furtado from Jefferies &amp; Company is online with a question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Martin Kemnec in for Dan Furtado.
I have 2 questions.
First I think you noted in your prepared comments that promotional volumes increased over the prior year but the APR mix is shifting away from higher balances at a slower pace.
I was just wondering if you could give us an update on how that mix now -- or how does that mix look now between the 3 balance types? And what would you consider kind of a normalized mix? Yes I think one of the statistics we've given is what percentage of balances are at a promotional rate.
And it may be slightly higher this quarter at right around 16% or so but has pretty much remained about in the range that we talked about at Investor Day.
And I think certainly the fact that we've had low attrition and low charge-off rates is contributing to our yield remaining higher than one otherwise might have expected.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
I think it's well-known you guys have pretty significant benefits to funding costs as these kind of higher-priced deposits are repriced.
I'm just curious how do you think about pricing 12 to 18 months out? It's like Barclays and some others are beginning to reengage the online market here in the U.S.
I think also back in Investor Day you had a chart that kind of showed how your deposits costs were tracking versus the largest banks.
How -- what is that delta at today if you can describe it? Or what's the kind of convergence we should expect to see there between those 2 lines? Yes I guess I would say at this point in time we tend to think about our direct-to-consumer deposits as one of our core funding channels and it's one that brings us the added benefit of a customer attached to it as well.
So having good-quality sticky funding relationships sticky customer relationships associated with that is a real core strength.
And that's really what we're focusing our action and activity in that market right now.
We obviously grew the business as a pretty significant ratepayer.
I would say we've gotten very disciplined in that at this point in time and still are looking to be a leader in that regard and are very focused on that but some of the other funding channels have of late been a little too enticing to ignore shall we say as well.
Going forward I would say you should expect to see us stay very competitive in the rates business.
And I would expect to see that -- expect that we're monitoring all of those competitive actions you alluded to very very carefully and feel very confident in our ability to respond to them should and if it become necessary.
James Friedman from Susquehanna Financial is online with a question.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions first more of a housekeeping nature.
So the rewards are up to 95 basis points from 92.
Mark could you just repeat what you had said in your prepared comments? Is that the level we should think about going forward? Yes I think that 95 basis point kind of range is really the right way to think about it.
In the current competitive environment we feel strongly that reinvesting in that program and -- is a critical component of our business strategy and that's how I think about it.
I would tell you on a net available interchange basis we're kind of flattish.
So we think that that's -- that that rewards rate is paying off for us shall we say.
So that's what I would guide you to there.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know it's a small part of the business but I wanted to ask about third-party issuance.
It was up about 19%.
That was the fastest growth we'd seen in many years.
Could you talk a little bit about the economics of that business and if that will continue to be a focus area for the company? Well I would say we were very pleased with the third-party growth.
And that business has been profitable for us for quite some time.
We don't separately break it out but it is certainly a contributor towards our Payment segment and we are very interested in continuing to grow it.
And I think that certainly we've got some significant relationships in there but we're continuing to diversify out as well with some additional relationships that are also contributing to the growth.
Matthew Howlett from Macquarie is online with a question.
Just on the FICO score breakout I guess the first question has there been any change in terms of -- what you're seeing in terms of the FICO band that you're putting on? And as that relates to that question some of your competitors have talked about going down the FICO score level.
I mean it depends on what you define subprime as but apparently there's a lot of opportunities in that underserved market.
My question is is there any plans to sort of reach down to some of the lower credit quality borrowers out there? We have no intention of becoming a subprime player.
We are a prime card issuer.
We are -- we do continuously fine-tune our credit models and strategies.
And the thing that we most look for are people that will have prime performance and that we can be profitable with.
And sometimes FICO I would say first on FICO we have been relatively stable.
So you haven't seen a big change on us.
But I think sometimes people overuse the FICO definition.
We turn down a whole lot of people that are over 660 who may have other characteristics that we don't think will lend to the credit performance that the FICO score loan might indicate.
And then there was a small subset of people who have less than a 660 but have other characteristics that we think can be attractive from a credit performance.
So we are continuously fine-tuning our models.
We have no further questions at this time.
All right.
Thank you Larissa.
Feel free to reach out to the Investor Relations team if you guys have any follow-up questions.
That concludes the call.
Thanks for joining us.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Discover Financial Services Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sandra and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Bill Franklin Vice President Investor Relations.
Mr.
Franklin you may begin.
Thank you Sandra.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us on this morning's call.
The discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2011 and in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31 2012 which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the third quarter 2012 earnings release and supplement which are now posted on our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Before the market opened we reported quarterly earnings of $627 million or $1.21 per share driven by continued improvements in credit robust loan growth and share repurchases.
During the quarter we generated a return on equity of 28% and returned approximately $400 million of capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.
Before I further discuss our third quarter let me first acknowledge that during the past week we entered into a consent order with the FDIC and CFPB regarding the previously disclosed matters related to the telephone marketing practices of certain credit protection products.
We agreed to provide refunds of approximately $200 million to cardholders who bought the products from December 2007 to August 2011 and to enhance our marketing practices.
We will also pay an additional $14 million in civil monetary penalties.
I am pleased that this settlement has been concluded.
All of us at Discover are committed to doing the right thing for our customers.
Now let's talk about our third quarter performance.
We achieved strong growth over the prior year as revenues were up 10% and total receivables grew 9%.
Credit quality continued to improve for our card business which once again realized historic lows for the over 30-day delinquency and principal charge-off rates.
Another achievement during the quarter was an all-time high level of active merchants generating Discover Card sales a direct consequence of our acceptance and awareness initiatives.
Discover year-over-year sales growth moderated somewhat over the prior quarter in line with the movements in lower consumer confidence.
August however was the strongest month in the quarter and one thing I am particularly pleased with is that at a time when revolving debt for the industry is roughly flat over last year we grew our card receivables by 4%.
We also continued to grow private student and personal loans which we expect will offer similar normalized returns to card.
In addition to growing our loan portfolio we are executing on our strategy to be the leading direct banking and payments company with the launch of Discover Home Loans in June.
Acquiring the assets of Home Loan Center from Tree.com allowed us to enter the mortgage business with a low-cost acquisition and an originate and sell model.
During the first 100 days after launch we originated approximately $1 billion in mortgages through this platform.
Our payments business continues to leverage existing assets in unique ways and build upon acceptance achievements.
We have created momentum and established ourselves as a flexible partner in the evolving payments landscape.
For instance in the U.S.
we will bring PayPal to the physical point-of-sale at millions of merchant locations currently accepting Discover.
Over the next few quarters we will be working hard to accommodate PayPal's launch.
On the international front Diners Club added Industrial and Commercial Bank of China which is the largest Chinese credit card issuer as a franchisee.
Also we've recently extended our existing relationship with Russian Standard Bank the largest Russian credit card issuer which will now issue and promote Discover-branded cards in Russia.
This is the second Discover card agreement outside of the U.S.
We are pleased with our results this quarter particularly with the momentum we have created through our new payments and direct banking initiatives as well as our card sales and receivables growth.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
I will begin my comments this morning by focusing on the Direct Banking segment which earned $963 million pretax this quarter versus $1 billion last year.
Net interest income increased $133 million or 11% over the prior year driven by asset growth and a higher net interest margin which was 18 basis points higher than the prior year at 9.44%.
Lower funding costs and lower card charge-offs more than offset asset yield compression of 33 basis points from the prior year.
In terms of specifics card interest yield declined 19 basis points from the prior year to 12.27% due to more promotional price balances as well as a decline in higher APR balances.
Additionally total yield was further depressed by the acquisition of lower yield student loans during the fourth quarter of last year.
I will remind you that while private student loans do have lower yields they also have lower charge-offs and operating expenses.
Interest expense as a percentage of average receivables was down 47 basis points over the prior year to 2.24% due to the continued benefit from refinancing maturing liabilities at lower rates.
We expect net interest margin to remain elevated through the end of the year due to slower-than-expected yield compression and continued benefits from a favorable funding environment.
Other income for the Direct Banking segment was $25 million higher than the prior year mainly due to the inclusion of revenue from Discover Home Loans our mortgage business launched in June of this year.
This product launch also added to expenses so I would remind you of our prior commentary that we continue expect -- to expect it to remain relatively immaterial to earnings for some time.
Continuing with other income.
Our rewards expense a contra revenue item increased to 99 basis points on card sales during the quarter.
We're comfortable with this level of investment in the current environment and presently expect the rewards rate to be around 1% going forward.
Another component of other income protection product revenue was down from last year and as we've said previously we expect this line item to continue to decrease over time.
Operating expenses for the Direct Banking segment were up $178 million over the prior year or 29%.
This growth was due to a $94 million increase in expenses for legal reserves associated primarily with the recently concluded FDIC and CFPB settlement along with expenses related to the Home Loan Center acquisition higher marketing expenses and higher headcount.
To put things in context for you excluding the increase in legal reserves and the expenses associated with Discover Home Loans operating leverage would have been flat.
Excluding all nonrecurring items we would expect expenses to increase sequentially for the fourth quarter due to the timing of certain marketing campaigns.
Private student loans including the $2.4 billion acquisition in the fourth quarter of last year were up $2.9 billion over the prior year.
We just completed the peak student loan origination season and we're pleased with the results.
Our fixed-rate student loan product which was launched in May continues to receive strong interest from borrowers.
Credit card loans were up $1.9 billion and personal loans were up $675 million from the prior year.
Turning to credit.
Credit card delinquency and charge-off rates were once again at historic lows for the quarter.
The credit card 30-plus day delinquency rate declined 10 basis points and the net charge-off rate declined 36 basis points sequentially.
The over 30-day delinquency rates for student loans increased 26 basis points and the net charge-off rate excluding purchase credit impaired loans increased 6 basis points from the second quarter.
These credit metrics reflect increased seasoning of the organic portfolio.
The credit performance of both our organic and the purchase credit impaired portfolios continues to be in line with our expectations.
The personal loan over 30-day delinquency rate was down 5 basis points and the net charge-off rate for personal loans was down 10 basis points sequentially.
The improvement in card delinquencies and the prospects for future credit performance led to a $182 million loan loss reserve release this quarter.
Turning to the Payment Services segment.
Pretax profit increased 31% over the prior year to $49 million.
Increases in higher margin point-of-sale volume for our PULSE PIN debit network and higher third-party issuing volume were partially offset by global acceptance- and Diners-related investments.
Segment volumes were up 13% over the prior year driven by a 17% increase in PULSE volumes and 12% growth in Discover Network third-party issuing volume.
As David mentioned we recently signed several agreements that should contribute longer term to volume growth.
Next I'll touch on liquidity funding and capital.
Our on-balance-sheet liquidity portfolio ended the quarter at $12.1 billion.
Total available liquidity was $29 billion an increase of $1.4 billion over the prior quarter.
The increase was largely driven by opportunistic securitization funding that allowed us to prefund upcoming maturities.
During July we priced a dual-tranche ABS deal consisting of a $1 billion 7-year fixed-rate tranche with a coupon of 1.67%; and a $650 million 3-year floating-rate tranche priced at 1 month LIBOR plus 20 basis points.
We will continue to opportunistically fund our business by tapping all of our available channels.
We ended the quarter with a 13.9% Tier 1 common ratio which was 10 basis points lower than the last quarter as we continue to grow receivables and deploy capital.
Let me conclude with some final comments.
During the quarter we generated strong earnings through continued credit improvement in the card book growth in loans and a higher net interest margin.
The Payments business leveraged our network and acceptance footprint to enter into a key service provider relationship with PayPal.
We also expanded our Direct Banking product suite by launching Discover Home Loans.
And lastly we continue to deploy capital by repurchasing over 4% of our shares in the last 2 quarters and have $1.2 billion remaining under our existing share repurchase program.
That concludes our formal remarks this morning.
So now I'll turn the call back to our operator Sandra to open things up for questions and answers.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just on payment protection now that you've settled with the agencies and refined your practice can you just help us how we think about that line going forward? I know you've said historically it should migrate lower.
And I know that you have changed some of your practices and pulled back on marketing so could you just give a sense how we should think about that as we look forward? Yes Ryan.
It's Mark.
I guess what I would say is we do continue to market the products but the best guidance I can give you at this point in time is we continue to expect that line item as you well noted to decline over time.
We're still working through a number of things in that consent order and until all that's finalized it's really hard to give you more definitive outlook.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess I'll ask one follow-up.
Just in terms of the margin I think you said Mark that you think it's going to be elevated from now until the end of the year.
But can you help us think of how we should think about the outlook as we look beyond that? I think you've said as we moved into year end we should start to migrate towards the 9%.
Any change in that outlook? I know some of the maturity is slow as we look out over the next couple of quarters but anything beyond just the next quarter or 2? Yes I would say we can see a path to an elevated margin beyond just the next quarter or so.
I'm a little reticent to say it keeps getting better forever and ever because there can be shocks to the funding environment that change things.
And at some point in time credit will actually turn on us and these interest charge-offs won't continue to decline at the rate they have.
But at this point in time Ryan I guess what I would say is clearly the margin can remain elevated beyond the end of the year.
Exactly how much longer candidly remains to be seen.
And the next question is from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess the question I have is one of the more significant intra-quarter items that you guys talked about earlier is the deal with PayPal.
I was wondering David can you just talk about how we should think about this opportunity strategically for Discover and whether or not we could see more of these types of opportunities as e-wallets evolve in the marketplace.
And then secondarily just a question for Mark.
You talked about the rewards expense kind of staying elevated.
How should we think about that net interchange income line? I mean is that the way to look at it? Well Sanjay we've been talking for quite some time about our strategy in the payments area to be the most flexible and best partner for a number of other players.
And you've seen us execute that strategy with a number of foreign networks over -- ranging from the Japanese Chinese Koreans to open up our network to their cardholder base and to provide full acceptance across the U.S.
for them.
And so one way to think about this is PayPal is entirely consistent with that.
It is different because they have a huge customer base and they are very big online and they're uniquely focused and uniquely positioned.
So there won't be -- I don't think there will be any deal exactly like this one because no one else is positioned as uniquely and in some cases as well as PayPal because to some degree a lot of people are talking about wallets these days and getting into it but they've been in it a long time.
They've enhanced it and they've got a huge customer base huge volume online.
We're opening up the offline to them and doing it in a way that is backward-compatible with existing terminals and future-ready for all the new technologies that will be deployed at point of sale.
So I expect us to continue executing that strategy.
We're very focused and excited about PayPal.
But we will also continue to do different kinds of deals with multiple other parties over time.
Sanjay it's Mark.
With respect to the rewards situation I would say we're the leader in the cash rewards space in terms of market share and we will continue to reinvest in our product as you might expect a leader to do to not only protect but to enhance that position.
In terms of the net interchange revenue line item that you noted I think that's probably a pretty good way to think about things and about one of the metrics we use to look at things.
I would say any of the enhancements we make we look at the NPV of those enhancements to the products to make sure that they're in the best interest of shareholders over the long haul with all the puts and takes.
And I would expect that that 1% guidance would result in that net interchange line being roughly flat going forward.
It may bounce a basis point or 2 here or there due to some fluctuations in the market or in the actual product offerings quarter-over-quarter but that's probably a pretty good metric to keep your eye on.
And the next question is from Eric Beardsley from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> In terms of your loan growth outpacing the sales volume growth this quarter what would you attribute that to? Is that just increased promotional activity? Or have you seen any changes in customer behavior? Well I'd say the loan and sales growth were pretty close to each other and that is different than the last few years when generally sales has outpaced loan growth.
I would say it could be partly a sign that the deleveraging trend that we've seen may have run its course and there may be less of a difference between sales and loan growth over time which is not necessarily a bad thing given that most of the income in cards does come from loans versus sales.
And the other thing I would say is there's a lot of things besides just sales that go into the loan growth.
And as an example this very low level of charge-off rate that we're experiencing means it helps support the loan growth beyond what it would be in a time of higher charge-offs and payment rates impact as do promotional rates balances.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one follow-up.
In terms of your percentage of balances that are in your default bucket and promo buckets could you provide an update on that? Yes.
We generally do that as you know at investor day and we'd expect to update it there.
I would just say that our promotional balances in total are slightly up from the prior quarter but not meaningfully so.
Yes I'd say they remained well below the precrisis levels that you would have seen.
And the next question is from Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> David I was wondering.
The ROAs in the card business remain remarkably strong.
I was just curious if you see any risk from competition in terms of the card deals around the regulatory side.
We've all sort of put regulatory in a bucket that looks pretty contained.
Well I would say that there's no doubt that ROAs that we are achieving are well above what our model target is and frankly above what most competitors we believe are at.
And so I think over time as both charge-offs credit and as well as cost of funds normalize you would expect ROAs to come back to more normal levels.
That -- and certainly the competition remains robust in the card business.
I don't see a big change getting more or less.
It's a competitive business.
But that being said it doesn't appear to me that there's going to be any real near-term change and I think that ROAs we believe are likely to remain elevated for potentially quite some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you don't really see anything from the regionals or other entrants that would put pressure on yields near term? This is such a scaled business that it is -- I think it's hard to be competitive and offer all the services to be cost-competitive to provide the level of services the product features.
I think that what we see is very robust competition from the handful of players who have enough scale to be huge players in this business.
And so those are the kinds of players that I'm focused on and that we run across every day in the marketplace.
And the next question is from Brad Ball from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about overall volumes? What was the driver behind the strength in PULSE? Was there a Durbin impact? Why was Diners volume a little bit weaker? And was there any FX impact to speak of this quarter? Yes well I guess doing Diners first.
There was an FX impact and certainly some of the situations in Europe have not been helpful.
And frankly we've announced a number of new deals in China and Russia and other places that we're quite excited about but those will take some time to bear fruit.
So we -- I don't think that we're going to see a big upturn in Diners Club until some of those things really start to kick in and we get past hopefully some of the headwinds that we see right now.
In terms of PULSE I think that I'm just very pleased with the execution.
I think it's pretty consistent with more of how PULSE has executed the last several years.
Really since we bought PULSE they've managed to gain share in a very competitive environment.
I think in terms of Durbin it's really too early to tell exactly whether that's going to be helpful or hurtful frankly given some of VISA's actions that we've been on record that we're concerned about and that the DOJ is looking into.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
We also have a follow-up PayPal question from our Evercore Internet team Andrew McNellis.
I'll just hand it to him quickly.
Research Division</strong> We just wanted to follow up on PayPal.
Specifically are you collecting the standard network fee on each transaction? And if so do you see PayPal driving meaningfully more volume on the Discover Network? We obviously wouldn't go into the details of our -- of a confidential deal.
But I would say generally we would expect to earn revenues based on volume just like almost any network deal one could imagine.
I'd probably leave it at that.
And the next question is from Ken Bruce from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to have you address a little bit more on the competition side of the equation.
Obviously today credit is quite good and your comments are certainly suggesting that you expect it to remain that way.
I guess I would like to understand if you're seeing any changes in terms of the competitive backdrop for underwriting of card balances if you're seeing any more aggressive activity any loosening of standards or if there's been really no meaningful change.
I would say that I haven't seen a meaningful change on the credit side.
And I think in terms of the marketing budgets and marketing levels I think it may be slightly less robust this year than it was last year when some of the players had some significant reserve releases and it looked to me like we saw some -- just a huge recovery in direct mail volumes as an example.
And I've seen evidence that some competitors may be moderating a little bit in that.
But generally it remains robust competition and I'm pleased that we're able to gain market share particularly in loans despite that competition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just if you could reflect a little more.
You've indicated that some of your partners really look at Discover as a strong domestic -- having a strong domestic merchant acceptance footprint.
I guess I'd like to maybe have you discuss how you look at the global merchant acceptance footprint where you think that needs to go in order for Discover to be really viewed as a full global competitor on that standpoint please.
Well we think we're #3 globally and I think increasingly people look at us not just as a domestic but as a true global option.
And while the PayPal deal starts off as a domestic deal we're hopeful that that will actually morph into a global acceptance deal that we certainly would be willing to offer both PayPal and others that option.
We're already doing that with a lot of people.
Some of those net-to-net deals that I talked about earlier like with the Koreans or the Indian one we've done are in fact opening up our global acceptance network.
And we have made some very significant investments to strengthen our acceptance and really have made big changes in places like the U.K.
or other markets.
And so we're very proud of where -- our momentum as well as our how we are viewed as a -- as really the alternative to the standard kind of deals out there globally.
And the next question is from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
I wonder if you could just talk for a minute about what's happening.
I think you're in the market testing a new card the Discover it Card.
Just give us a sense of how that's going and what you're discovering so far in terms of customer interest.
I would say we are very pleased with our early results from Discover it.
It is quite innovative and one of the most different kinds of products across all phases not just features and service but the look and feel of the card itself the delivery.
And I'm optimistic that we'll be in a position to consider rolling that out next year.
Should that have much of an impact on margins or I mean the net effect on the P&amp;L? Well I would say the thing that we most hope is that it will have a good effect on our ability to grow accounts and ultimately sales and receivables more than anything.
We are -- I just have to jump in and say we are --  obviously we view ourselves as responsible stewards of our shareholders' capital and we're not going to roll it out if it doesn't make economic sense to roll it out.
So we are in the testing phase.
It's too early to give you more specific answers to that question until we know more where this is all shaking out.
Okay great.
And then as a follow-up you mentioned that August sales I guess was the best in the quarter.
Give us a sense of how September -- the first 3 weeks of September compare to August.
Yes.
I would say September so far looks a whole lot more like August than it did the first 2 months in terms of being better year-over-year.
And the next question is from Scott Valentin from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> With regard to returning capital I think you pointed out this quarter David that $400 million returned about 65% of earnings.
How should we think of that going forward? As a percentage of earnings how much do you want to return to shareholders per year? Yes I think -- this is Mark.
I guess what I'd say in respect to that is just preface the comment by reminding everybody not that you need a reminding but I just feel I have to do it that we now have to get any capital actions approved on an annual basis if you will as part of the CCAR capital process with the Federal Reserve.
But with that as the backdrop I think they have sent a pretty clear signal that 30% dividend payout ratios are kind of the maximum that they're looking at in terms of dividends.
We are well below that and see meaningful room to increase our dividend over time.
I would say that the repurchases would make up the remainder.
We clearly don't have any intention of continuing to run at a 14% Tier 1 common ratio over the long haul.
And I think we've got $1.2 billion remaining under that current repurchase authorization.
I think we've kind of provided guidance earlier that we'd expect we would use over half of that $2 billion authorization over the remainder of our fiscal year.
So I would say that's still probably good guidance at this point in time given where we sit right now absent anything popping up or changing.
But over the long term as we move forward I think we are going to continue to look for opportunities to deploy and/or return that capital in our shareholders' best interests.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then just a follow-up question with regard to the comment earlier.
Rewards -- I'm sorry marketing expense generally increased with the seasonal fourth quarter.
Should it be comparable in size or percentage to what we saw last year? I think last year was about an 8% increase from -- quarter-over-quarter from 3Q to 4Q.
I'm just wondering is that kind of what you're thinking or is there -- do you think there's room to increase even further.
Yes I think it could be a slightly larger increase than that.
I'm not prepared to give really specific numbers at this point in time but I think it could be somewhat bigger than 8%.
And the next question is from Rick Shane from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In going through the master trust filings one thing we noticed over the last year is an increase both in higher line limits and also higher FICO scores.
It's enough to at least sort of call attention to.
Is that going to be the intention going forward? Are you focused on that higher-end customer and/or how do you feel about that increase in line limit availability? I would say -- it's David -- that I'm a little surprised that you would have seen a difference in 1 quarter.
I mean we did a significant securitization during this quarter so it might have just been some movement in the trust date as opposed to the overall portfolio as generally I would expect a fair amount of stability from quarter-to-quarter.
And I would kind of ...
Research Division</strong> David it's over an 8- or 9-month period.
I didn't want to suggest it was 1 quarter I apologize.
Okay.
Well we could follow up with you specifically on that.
But I'd say just generally we have been a prime card issuer and we are not making any significant moves either on credit lines or credit quality.
We're always enhancing fine-tuning.
If we find prime people that we can give more lines to we would do so but nothing dramatic.
Research Division</strong> It may just be noise in the data then -- which is a good answer.
[indiscernible] Yes.
Just to be abundantly clear though on that front -- thanks Bill.
I just want to remind everybody we haven't put new accounts into the trust in a long time.
So any movement you're seeing in the trust data is reflective of movement of the underlying line size or the credit quality of the folks who've already been in the trust.
And the next question is from Chris Brendler from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
One on the domestic cash side it looked like -- if I back into like cash volume this quarter was the biggest quarter you've had in cash in a couple of years.
I just wanted -- nothing huge $2.5 billion or so but just wanted to see if that was a result of increased promotional activity on your part or increased consumer uptake of balance transfer offers.
Well I would say that we are continuing to try to grow the number of new accounts that we put on and that tends to -- those tend to come with a pretty high percentage of promotional balances initially.
So I think it'd probably be mainly reflective of that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any improvement in consumer demand from your perspective David? I would say a lot of consistency on consumer demand not seeing big movements one way or another.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final question would be on the student lending side delinquencies ticked up pretty meaningfully this quarter.
I just don't know how I should look at this number.
What -- where do we sort of see it's heading on a fully seasoned basis.
I know this portfolio is relatively new.
Just give me some parameters to help us think about delinquency rate in the student loan portfolio.
Yes I would -- this is Mark.
I'd point you back to our investor day materials in terms of how we expect that business to perform over the long haul.
What you're seeing in the student book specifically is -- the organic student book specifically is the maturation of that portfolio as the loans begin to be coming to the repayment phase.
There's also some seasonality going on there because as graduates come out of the deferral process and go into repayment is when you start to see delinquency get reflected a little bit.
But all of this is consistent with the way we've modeled the behavior internally in terms of giving a long-term guidance on the way that book is going to perform.
So I'd direct you back toward that to really think through how you could model this over the long haul.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Do you think [indiscernible] in line with expectations on your part? Or is it a little ahead a little behind? Where are we [indiscernible] can you help us think on your perspective? Yes the statistics you're referring to are on the organic student loan book specifically and they are in line with our expectations.
And the next question is from Matt O'Neill from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping we could just quickly come back to the PayPal questions.
And what I was really looking to get at was do you think PayPal is primarily focused on the opportunity to sell additional services to merchants versus the pure per-transaction economics as their true revenue opportunity? Well you'd have to ask PayPal their objectives precisely.
But I can say our part in it is to open up our acceptance network and assets to what is a -- has become a very significant customer base that they have developed over time.
And the next question is from Daniel Furtado from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This should be relatively straightforward.
The other income increase in the quarter my assumption is that was mortgage.
I just wanted to get a confirmation there.
And then the second piece is generally speaking what has the ramp been on the mortgage origination side? And I get it that gain on sale margins will have an impact but generally speaking what level of originations do you think you need to achieve in order to get past this break-even stage in that business? Yes I would -- your assessment is indeed correct.
The vast majority of the increase in other income was related to the introduction of the Discover Home Loans to the marketplace this quarter.
I would tell you again as we come up the curve in the business and given our usual prudent approach to things we're not going to jam the pedal to the floorboards anytime soon to try and dominate the industry in the next 3 months.
But I would say -- if you wanted just a little peek under the tent I would say that the business was net contributory this past quarter but not by very much.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And -- but there's no necessary -- well I guess you've already gone through that.
How about the ramp on the originations has there been any material move there since onboarding the business? Well as I mentioned we did about $1 billion in the first 100 days.
I think it's too early to talk about a ramp.
We -- this was the first quarter.
And I would say that obviously refinance volumes in particular are extremely robust and the business is benefiting from that.
I think the important thing for us to get to improve our profitability is actually more on the cost side.
There's obviously a good number of integration expenses.
We are changing the marketing from -- to much more cross-selling and using the Discover brand versus lead management.
And it will take quite some time to get the cost structure down independent of volume production and that's what we'll tend to -- that's what we're mainly focused on in terms of profitability.
And the next question is from Mike Taiano from Telsey Advisory Group.
Two unrelated questions.
I guess first on the net interest margin expansion.
Mark could you maybe give us a sense of how much of the improvement was a function of lower charge-offs? And then secondly on the PayPal relationship could you give us a sense of whether those transactions on the offline world will be billed as card-not-present transactions and carry a higher interchange fee for the merchant? Yes.
On the net interest margin side of the equation clearly I would say a part of it is due to the lower net interest charge-offs.
I would say funding is driving a bigger piece.
Yes and Mike you can see the net interest and fee charge-offs in the supplement now.
We pegged that a few quarters ago so you can kind of see the decrease.
And then in terms of PayPal you would -- PayPal will be setting their pricing and I'm not sure you should even think about it as comparison with something else.
I mean it is going to be PayPal pricing.
So my guess is they're not going to be disclosing that until next year at launch but you could ask them.
And the next question is from Henry Coffey from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Focusing back on the mortgage business how should we really think about this? Is it going to be an adjunct to the Discover card relationship like a traditional bank looks at its mortgage business? Or are you exploring new sort of more dynamic ways to access that market? And then just a sort of a second related question as you look at the processing challenges which is a nice way of calling the reps and warranty risk how have you been able to manage those issues to make sure that every I is dotted and T is crossed et cetera? Well I would say that especially early on we would expect a fair amount of the business to be cross-sell.
We have -- about 1/4 of the U.S.
households have a Discover card a Discover relationship and so that would be the natural place to start to deliver the same kind of value and service to the mortgage origination business as we've done elsewhere.
And I would think about it not as an -- not so much as an adjunct to the card but as an important pillar in our direct banking strategy.
Mortgages are obviously the largest single consumer loan that -- category.
And so as we continue on our journey to be the best direct bank mortgages along with credit cards and other products will be important to fulfilling that vision of extending the Discover brand and capabilities to these other products.
In terms of dotting the Is crossing the Ts controls and having modest growth aspirations is very important.
Obviously we looked for 2 years-plus before we pulled the trigger on this particular acquisition and what we liked was the operation and the foundation on which to build.
And that was critically important to us to make sure that everything was second to none in the industry in terms of doing everything by the book.
Research Division</strong> Now just kind of a related question the launch of the full bank.
When I can turn on my computer and have everything I'd get from some of the other major banks.
Is that going to be a sort of a gradual process? Or will we sort of see a big jump forward in marketing and sort of a major product launch? I think it will be a gradual.
I mean if you look at -- if you go to discover.com now what you see is we've added mortgages we've got student loans personal loans credit cards money markets and CDs with the bank.
And so as we've added each product we've been expanding the banking suite if you will and I think what we've been really pleased with is the fact that while we're still mostly known as a credit card it's starting to shift.
Consumers increasingly are realizing that Discover can actually save them money and provide better value on a whole range of banking products and so we're going to continue that journey.
This concludes the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Bill Franklin for closing remarks.
Thanks Sandra.
And thanks to everyone for joining us this morning.
If you have any follow-up questions please reach out to the Investor Relations group and we'll try to help you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q4 2012 Discover Financial Services Earnings Conference Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note: this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Bill Franklin Head of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Franklin you may begin.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate all of you -- for joining us on this morning's call.
The discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report; in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2011; and in our Form 10-Q for the quarters ended August 31 and May 31 2012 which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the fourth quarter 2012 earnings release and supplement which are now posted on our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
This morning I'm going to start off by discussing the fourth quarter and then walk through some highlights of our full year accomplishments.
Before the market opened we reported quarterly diluted earnings per share of $1.07 up 13% over the prior year driven primarily by loan growth and share repurchases.
During the quarter we generated return on equity of 23% and returned approximately $451 million of capital to common shareholders through repurchases and dividends.
Our robust results strong capital position and positive outlook led us to announce a 40% increase in our dividend to common shareholders.
This quarter we accelerated our organic growth to 6% on total receivables.
Card receivables growth for the quarter was the highest in over 5 years driven by spin from the revolver segment of our card base.
Our strong receivables and sales growth results demonstrate the effectiveness of our marketing programs consumers' preference for cash rewards and our acceptance and awareness initiatives.
For the fourth quarter our noncard assets specifically our personal and private student loans achieved a combined 11% year-over-year growth as we broadened marketing and added new schools and a fixed-rate product in student loans earlier in the year.
Our Payments segment experienced 13% year-over-year purchase volume growth driven largely by PULSE.
Volume processed on our networks achieved an all-time high for the fourth quarter.
We also increased our level of investment to drive future growth and achieved the full potential of our Direct Banking and payment strategy.
Important new initiatives included new domestic and global payments partners; a new core banking system; our first checking product which we expect to launch in early 2013; and Discover it our new credit card product that is testing successfully in select markets and will be launched nationally next month.
Our card net charge-off rate set another record low but our over-30-day delinquency rate ticked up slightly due to seasonality.
While the continued improvement in credit appears to be nearing an end we don't believe we were -- we are at a point where charge-offs are poised to rise significantly.
Now I'd like to share some thoughts on how we performed against our 2012 priorities.
We had 2 principal priorities for our Direct Banking segment.
First we wanted to build on the momentum from 2011 and grow card sales and receivables.
Second we wanted to grow our noncard product offerings.
During the year we successfully grew card sales and receivables in a challenging environment by increasing our marked wallet share and achieving double-digit new account growth.
We increased customer engagement through our rewards programs marketing initiatives and by expanding online and mobile capabilities.
We increased merchant participation in our rewards program which also enhanced the value for our card members.
For the full year card receivables grew by $3 billion or 6%.
In our Direct Banking segment we grew noncard assets and launched new products including home loans and student loans focused on graduate and professional programs.
By leveraging our expertise in unsecured underwriting and maintaining the customer-centric focus we disbursed over $1 billion in private student loans and grew personal loan originations to $1.8 billion.
Additionally we originated over $2 billion in home loans since June.
In payments we continued to build on domestic and international acceptance and successfully grew our network volume while dealing with competitive challenges.
For the full year volume for the Payments segment grew by 12% and we achieved a record number of active merchants.
Further in Payments we positioned ourselves as a flexible and innovative partner for payment solutions with a number of new agreements domestically with PayPal and internationally with new network and issuer partnerships.
Lastly one of our top corporate priorities was to drive shareholder value through effective capital management.
During the fiscal year we returned a little over $1.4 billion through share repurchases and common dividends.
Our fourth quarter provided a strong finish to a record year.
As we enter 2013 I am looking forward to maintaining the momentum in our Direct Banking segment and executing on our recently formed network partnerships as we continue to leverage our network assets.
We look forward to providing you with an update on our 2013 priorities at our annual financial community briefing in March.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
Let me start by reminding you that as of January 2013 Discover will be converting to a December fiscal year end.
We'll provide you with historical calendar year data in early March in advance of our financial community briefing.
That said I'll begin my remarks on this quarter's performance starting with the Direct Banking segment which earned $827 million pretax this quarter versus $776 million last year.
Net interest income increased $134 million or 11% over the prior year driven by both asset growth as well as the net interest margin which was 34 basis points higher than the prior year at 9.44%.
Lower funding costs and lower interest charge-offs more than offset a 17 basis point compression in total asset yield from the prior year.
Specifically card yield declined 20 basis points from the prior year to 12.16% due to more promotional balances and a decline in higher rate and default priced balances.
Interest expense as a percentage of average receivables was down 49 basis points over the prior year to 2.11% due to the continued benefit from refinancing maturing liabilities at lower rates.
We expect to continue to benefit from this funding cost tailwind through 2013.
Over the next year the combination of yield and funding cost trends should keep net interest margin above our long-term target of 8.5% to 9%.
However we do anticipate some compression driven largely by card yield which should continue to decline.
Other income for the Direct Banking segment was $50 million higher than the prior year mainly due to the inclusion of revenue from Discover Home Loans our mortgage business that we launched in June of this year as well as a $26 million gain on the sale of a minority investment.
The mortgage business was profitable for the quarter.
However I would remind you of my comments from last quarter's call that we continue to expect it to remain relatively immaterial to earnings for some time.
Continuing with other income our rewards expense a contra revenue item increased to 106 basis points on card sales during the quarter due to what was in retrospect a richer than expected 5% cashback promotion that generated very strong cardmember engagement.
We do not expect this elevated rewards rate to persist into the calendar first quarter.
However I would point out that the current program runs through December.
Another component of other income Protection Product revenue was down from last year and we continue to expect this line item to decrease over time.
During the quarter we did cease marketing these products to focus on implementing changes required by our consent order.
We continue to service and maintain existing products and memberships and intend to once again make these products available to new customers next year.
Operating expenses for the Direct Banking segment were up $114 million over the prior year or 18%.
There are several factors contributing to this higher level of expenses.
First we increased employee headcount as well as marketing and other expenses due to the Home Loan acquisition and the launch of our direct mortgage product which contributed roughly $50 million to expenses in this period.
Second as evidenced by our strong receivables growth we believe investments in marketing are bearing fruit in this environment.
And as a result we think the timing is right for us to continue to opportunistically drive new account acquisition and card utilization.
Finally our headcount information processing and professional fee line items grew further as we laid the groundwork for launching several new products in the coming quarters and added resources to address new regulatory expectations.
Some of these initiatives will also result in higher operating expenses next quarter.
Turning to credit.
Sequentially the credit card 30-plus delinquency rate increased 5 basis points due to seasonality but the net charge-off rate declined 14 basis points to a new historic low.
The over-30-day delinquency rate for student loans decreased 21 basis points and the net charge-off rate excluding purchase loans increased 22 basis points from the third quarter.
The net charge-off rate reflects increased seasoning of the organic portfolio.
We would remind you that as the portfolio seasons we will see this rate rise past 1% and come back down over the long term.
The credit performance of both our organic and purchased portfolios remains in line with our expectations.
The personal loan over-30-day delinquency rate was up 2 basis points and the net charge-off rate was up 22 basis points sequentially as the portfolio continued to season.
Over the course of the year we have said that loan growth will eventually lead us to build reserves.
This quarter's $38 million reserve build reflects the strong asset growth that we have realized.
One last thing I want to mention is that effective November 30 the company began including confirmed card transactions as parts of loans in process which resulted in a $365 million increase to ending card receivables for the fourth quarter.
This will have no impact on historic or future income statement items including earnings per share but will lower some ratios which use average card or total receivable balances in the denominator such as card yield and net interest margin.
Turning to the Payment Services segment pretax profit decreased 21% over the prior year to $33 million.
The decrease resulted primarily from higher expenses at Diners which included marketing and incentives related to several new issuing relationships.
Expense increases were partially offset by increases in higher margin point of sale volume for our PULSE debit network and higher Network Partners volume.
Network Partners is our new name for what we formerly referred to as Third-Party Issuers.
We've changed the name to better reflect our strategy of partnering to drive volume growth.
However the composition of the business has not changed.
Segment volumes were up 13% driven by strong increases in PULSE and Network Partners volumes.
Next I'll touch on liquidity funding and capital.
Our on-balance sheet liquidity portfolio at quarter end was $9.6 billion.
Total available liquidity was $27 billion a decrease of $2.4 billion over the prior quarter.
We opportunistically executed a $575 million 6.5% perpetual preferred stock issue and a $500 million debt exchange offer that allowed us to broaden our regulatory capital mix.
Also in November we issued $250 million of 3-year Class B asset-backed securities with a floating-rate coupon of one month LIBOR plus 45 basis points.
This is Discover's first Class B issuance since 2007.
As we have said before we'll continue to opportunistically fund our business by accessing all available channels.
We ended the quarter with a 13.6% tier 1 common ratio which was 30 basis points lower than the last quarter.
Let me conclude with some full year comments.
We achieved record net income in fiscal 2012 due to improvements in credit loan growth and a higher net interest margin.
The payments business leveraged our network and acceptance footprint to achieve record network volume and entered into several key partnerships which we expect to be drivers of future profitability.
Lastly we continue to deploy capital as evidenced by today's announced dividend increase to $0.14 as well as our repurchase of over 6% of our shares over the course of the past year.
That concludes our formal remarks.
So now I'll turn the call back to the operator John to open things up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll ask my 2 questions upfront.
Just the first on credit quality I think David you mentioned that you don't anticipate a significant rise in charge-offs.
Could you just talk about the dynamics there when we look a year out from now especially when you -- when considering how you factored in to your provision? Do you assume flattish a year from now or up slightly? And then secondarily just on operating expenses I was just hoping to get some color from Mark maybe.
When we look out to 2013 is $3 billion roughly a good assumption to use as an annual budget for operating expenses? And then maybe on rewards costs as well is 100 basis points still a good number roughly? Sanjay on -- we're certainly in an environment that we've never experienced before on credit.
So it is a difficult line to forecast.
But it's my expectation that we're going to see at this point some flatness and more seasonal trends occurring.
It wouldn't surprise me to see a slight increase over the coming 12 months.
But as I've kind of indicated we're certainly not expecting anything dramatic.
And so if you look at the reserving it's largely due to our loan growth which I was very pleased to have achieved a 5-year high growth rate and that leads to more reserving.
And that's more of a driver as opposed to expecting a big increase in credit cost.
Mark? Yes I would -- I'd echo David's comment on that one.
I mean I think receivables growth is central to our business model.
And as we've been saying that growth would at some point in time cause us to begin to build reserves.
And the growth in reserves you've seen is a direct result of the growth in loans over the course of the last several years.
With respect to your expenses question Sanjay I would say a couple of different things.
I think as we look forward to next year that $3 billion number is a close number to utilize.
It may come in a little bit higher than that would be my general expectation however.
I think in terms of an operating leverage way of looking at things if we were not investing in a number of these growth investments over the course of the next year we would be reporting flat operating leverage for 2013.
I think we will be slightly below that because of the investments in growth we're making.
I think you all understand that when you're investing for organic growth the expenses lead to revenues.
But given the ROIs and the opportunities we see in these products we're very comfortable going ahead and making those investments.
With respect to the rewards rate itself as I said in my prepared remarks I think the 106 basis point level that you saw this quarter was higher than we expected it to be quite honestly.
That program was probably a little bit too rich in retrospect.
But it did drive fabulous cardmember engagement which is great.
I would say going forward I would expect it to be closer to that 1% level is the right way to think about things.
Though again I would point out for the month of December that higher program is still running.
Our next question comes from Mike Taiano from Telsey Advisory Group.
So I guess on the volume side I was just curious and I guess first if you saw any impact from Sandy for the full quarter.
I know you had that impact the first week or 2 but just wondering if that was anything material.
And then secondly looking out to next year I know there's a lot of uncertainty around the fiscal cliff.
But I was just -- it seems like at least one thing that seems consensus from both sides is the elimination of the payroll tax cut that's been in place the last couple of years.
I'm just -- was wondering if you could give any thoughts as to how that might impact your volumes looking out to next year.
Sure.
I would say that in terms of Sandy we don't think it had a significant overall effect on our volume during the quarter.
It's certainly had a regional impact obviously with timing.
We saw some sub-components that changed around a bit.
For instance home improvement had been softer before Sandy and post-Sandy.
There's been enough rebuilding needs that we've actually seen that component drive higher.
So there've been some ins and outs maybe from Sandy but I think the overall volume not too affected.
I think in terms of fiscal cliff we don't have a separate plan for -- as I've heard some companies have.
And we think that -- I don't expect a big impact.
I do expect something to get resolved.
I think the big wild card is what happens to consumer confidence.
And I think as long as consumer confidence doesn't take a big nosedive I expect our sales volume and so on to continue doing just fine.
If consumer confidence for whatever reason went down significantly then that's what would probably start affecting sales volume.
Great and then just one follow-up.
The CFPB I guess put out a notice yesterday saying they're going to kind of look at the impact of -- that the card hack has had over the last couple of years.
I'm just curious to see if you had any thoughts as to whether that could be either positive or negative just given it seems like there's been restriction in credit as a result of that.
And I wonder if they may decide to make some changes.
Just any thoughts you might have there.
I hadn't seen that what -- it's a wait to see.
I'd be surprised if there was a big impact as a result of a study like that just from what you're saying.
But I'll have to wait and see what’s up.
Our next question comes from Bill Carcache from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> David on the rewards fund and it seems like you guys are taking advantage of the spending growth and loan growth that you've been generating and just continuing to invest for growth and offering more attractive rewards.
Can you share your outlook for investment spending for the new year both for you and the industry? And specifically do you expect some of your competitors to have a tougher time maintaining investment levels given that many of them are still not seeing loan growth? Well certainly I think it's a very good opportunity for us to continue to invest in growth.
We've been gaining share in loans over the last couple years and that's accelerated this quarter.
And so in Direct Banking we're investing to continue to gain and accelerate loan growth in card to broaden our other Direct Banking offerings in student loans personal loans and other products.
And then obviously in the payments area we're investing -- we're -- we've just got many more opportunities in front of us at this point.
And we think it's time to really grab some of those and invest in that business which will be great for the long term.
I think in terms of the competition I think that's part of why investing is looking better for us.
We have seen some competitors pulling back on for instance direct mail volumes and advertising.
And I think we'd be foolish not to take advantage of that kind of opportunity.
Research Division</strong> And then finally my last question is on your partnership with PayPal.
It shows that you know how you guys are using your network in a way that's disruptive to how the payments ecosystem has traditionally worked.
Is it reasonable to expect that we'll see more deals like that? You mentioned there are some things kind of in the works.
So without obviously commenting on anything specifically but I just wondered whether a similar kind of partnership to what we saw with PayPal where you turn on acceptance for them and all of your merchant locations is something that we could expect with say like an MCX or others who are were kind of entering the industry and trying to be disruptive themselves? I'd say yes and no.
I certainly -- I think PayPal is in a fairly unique position and I'm really excited about that opportunity.
There is no one else in the market that's exactly positioned the way they are.
So what I expect is not other PayPal-like deals but other deals that are also disruptive in different ways.
And we are talking to a number of partners who see our flexibility and unique assets as a big opportunity.
And so I am certainly hopeful that over the -- as we get into next year that we'll have additional partners to be talking to you about.
Our next question comes from Jason Arnold from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You've seeing strong loan growth in 2012 and particularly good performance here this quarter; clearly a rarity in the financial sector so keep up the good work.
But just curious if you could give us an update on your loan growth outlook for the year ahead and perhaps also update us on the card side in particular with respect to how you're progressing on the card acceptance awareness translating into more lending volumes.
Yes I think that I'm really pleased with the 6% this quarter significantly higher than the 2% to 4% that we had targeted and in our Investor Day discussions.
And certainly it's nice to see this kind of growth when the overall industry continues to decrease so significant share gain.
It's going to be tough to maintain it at quite the 6% level.
So I'm not sure we'll be able to maintain that throughout the year.
But I'm certainly hopeful to at least be at the high end of the range that we've targeted in cards.
And I mentioned Discover it.
I think a lot will ride on how successful that is.
We've seen good results from the test markets but it's -- we really have to push hard to have this kind of growth in a non-growing card overall market.
I think the acceptance that you mentioned is part of what's allowing us to achieve this kind of growth combined with the higher level of investment spending cash rewards programs new products all the other things.
It's hard to disentangle everything.
But I'm certainly pleased with the growing acceptance the awareness of acceptance the deals we're doing with acquirers and that is paying fruit for us or resulting in some of this growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> I mean could you just expand on the Discover it kind of compare/contrast with your typical card offering as well? Well I won't go into a huge detail on this because there's too many features to fully talk about.
But I am very excited.
It's a cash back no-fee card with an extremely high level of service and unique features that are designed to save customers interest and fees and also has a different look and feel in terms of the card itself and in how we're delivering it to the customers.
So we're -- we'll look forward to briefing you more at our Investor Day about it and you're likely to see some stuff -- some marketing of it show up next month.
Our next question comes from Mark DeVries from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I've got a follow-up on credit.
I don't know if there’s a fair way to frame it but how do you think about the level of reserves relative to charge-offs going forward? Yes I guess Mark -- this is Mark.
I would say that from my perspective I would echo David's earlier comment in that the reserve build you see this quarter is largely due to the growth in loan outstandings.
We don't see a fundamental inflection point in credit here I guess is what I'd say just to be clear about it.
Going forward I think as we continue to grow our balance sheet there will likely continue to be requirements for provisioning associated with some of that growth.
You think about it we've been generating strong growth for a while now.
And I think David indicated we continue to expect to see good solid growth going forward and so that will force us to continue to provide.
The way we look at things is we use a forward-loss emergence period.
Currently up to 12 months so that's kind of how we're looking at a forward window of what we see coming at it.
And the growth that we have been generating over a period of time has reached a level to the point where we're providing for it a little bit.
But we do not see a fundamental inflection point in credit here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what loss rates are you assuming on the receivables you're adding? I don't think we've provided that information historically as part of our underwriting models.
But I would say we are not underwriting to current loss rates.
I would say we are underwriting to what we believe to be more normalized loss rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just had one question about the mortgage business.
What should we be looking at as far as when we're going to see that become a meaningful contributor to profitability? Is it an issue of market size or is it just more work you have to do to kind of integrate that and rightsize the expenses? Yes I think it's a couple different things Mark.
I think first foremost and fundamentally it's a new business for us.
And consistent with the way we like to do things we're going to test drive it a little bit before we jam on the accelerator.
So I would say that's a piece of the puzzle.
I would say another piece of the puzzle would be we said all along there is some optionality there.
We wouldn't make any broader commitments to the business until we had further clarity around how some of the capital treatment and some of the GSEs some of that was starting to evolve.
I think we're starting to get some clarity there but we're probably not all the way to the full clarity we would want to see to really move things forward.
That notwithstanding I would say we don't enter things with an idea of playing at them.
So my perspective is there's a great opportunity for us in the mortgage business.
And as we get more comfortable with it ourselves and make sure we understand the various levelers and all the risks it probably will -- you should look for it to become a more significant contributor going forward.
Our next question comes from Scott Valentin from FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just quickly on the networks you've mentioned you've signed a number of agreements with -- that are unique.
And just wondering when will we expect to see some type of a bottom line impact on some of those agreements? It seems like some of them can be pretty sizable like China UnionPay or the PayPal or even I guess in the media you've seen Google Wallet association.
What I would expect is that we've just signed a bunch of deals and next year is going to be a lot of implementation and costs related to that and getting going.
And so I would probably think more like in the 2014 and then certainly into the 2015 period to see some much more serious volume from those new agreements starting to hit and generate profits.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up on the expense line.
I mean you mentioned investing now to drive growth later on.
That's on the marketing side.
You also mentioned some employment expenses associated with the mortgage bank.
In the context of the $3 billion give-or-take number that Mark you kind of referenced before or was mentioned before how much of that is due to that kind of employment line? How much of this due to the marketing side? Yes I would say it's combination of both.
At this point in time marketing will be a big driver of the launch of a lot of these new products some of which we've talked about and some of which we haven't.
So that'll be a big piece of it.
Headcount expenses have been part of the equation but they have not been the lion's share.
Our next question comes from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Mark when you think about capital I mean you bought back $1.2 billion of stock grew loans 6% year-over-year increased dividend yet your capitals levels are up 40 basis points year-on-year.
So can you talk about your outlook and priorities for capital returns into 2013? Could this be the year that we actually see a decent dent made in bringing down the capital levels? We would love to see that be the case.
I'm happy to talk about capital.
We are currently in the throes of our annual capital planning activities both internally and with our own Board of Directors and also preparing for submission in the first couple days of January to the Fed as part of the CCAR capital process our annual capital plan as well.
I think you all know that any capital actions we propose to take need non-objection on the part of our regulatory body.
I guess I'd say a couple of things.
Number one I don't think we feel that we were necessarily aggressive enough in our ask last year.
So I think you should expect our ask to be somewhat more aggressive than it was last year; it was not objected to.
I think the other thing I would say in this regard is we remain committed to being responsible stewards of that capital.
And fulfilling that mission is going to be a combination of deploying it at ROE levels above our threshold 15% that we have talked to you about in the past and finding ways to get that capital returned to our shareholders to the extent we don't have the ability to do that.
So it's not lost on us that you guys would love to see an increase in the returns of capital and we are working toward that end.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just as -- Mark as a follow-up on the comments on the potential for negative operating leverage.
Can you just talk about how you're thinking about that? Are you looking at it as including gross revenues? Are you thinking about rewards as a contra revenue or actually as an expense? Yes I'm including it as a contra revenue but it's going into the calculation in the way I'm thinking about it Ryan.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> David I was really kind of struck by the 6% growth in receivables.
You had mentioned that that being driven by increased spending on from revolving customers.
And yet the quarter doesn't really include the bulk of the holiday spending period.
And by the same token I didn't notice that your payment rates have had declined or anything.
So could you talk about -- I mean it feels like it should persist then.
I mean is there something I'm missing? No well of course we're comparing like time periods.
So we're looking at the same time period prior year in terms of the percentage of the holiday season.
I would say that we saw probably higher sales growth during year-over-year in November than we're seeing so far in December and we saw this last year as well.
And I think that one of the things that's happening is that more and more of the retailers are having bigger sales around Thanksgiving and accelerating some of the holiday spending into that month.
So that is a likely kind of thing.
And I guess the second thing is we did get -- we have been getting some extra pop from the higher rewards investments and other investments we've made.
And while that will likely carry through this month and if I look -- if I think about full year we're going to be pulling back a bit to more normal levels of promotions.
And that can also affect that growth throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just to follow-up I mean is there anything you're seeing from the consumer side in terms of their willingness to actually carry some more debt? Because that would be obviously a positive.
And can you talk about that maybe -- and maybe what you're seeing into December? I would say I haven't seen a big change this quarter.
But for the last few quarters I've been saying that we've seen sales and receivables growing at about the same pace which suggest to me that a lot of the leveraging that has taken place over the last several years has run its course.
And so I just -- I think this quarter it was more of the same.
Our next question comes from Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> David more of a business-type question on your marketing.
How much of your marketing is mailing today versus let's say some of the newer channels like online as a percentage today let's say versus 3 or 4 or 5 years ago? Can you talk specifically about how that might have changed or not changed? Well it’s certainly changed dramatically over the last several years.
And Internet and online has become a very significant part of the marketing mix and I think that'll only continue to grow.
Direct mail is easier to track.
And so sometimes when we look at level of marketing intensity it's a little easier for us to compare statistics on mailings being up or down in relative mail share.
But we see more and more of our business moving online because it's very cost effective.
We already get the majority of our applications come in through online as opposed to all other channels combined.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then it sounds like you're pretty constructive on payments and opportunities for investment.
You have a lot of capital.
Would you make any type of sort of decent-sized acquisition in Payments? And would it be more likely domestic or international? If we saw the right opportunity that gave us the right returns and fit with our strategy I would love to be able to bulk up in Payments.
Obviously if you look over the longer time period we bought Diners and PULSE so we have made Payments-type of acquisitions.
We've made some smaller investments in this space.
But -- so I think it could be for the right deals it could be a great way to deploy some of this capital.
But that being said the prices of properties tend to be pretty high.
These -- our assets are quite unique.
And so I think that what we have been finding is that there are a lot more opportunities to partner with others as opposed to buying others and that's been true both domestically and internationally.
And so I think that that is a more likely scenario is to see more partnerships as opposed to acquisitions.
Our next question comes from Rick Shane from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> When we look at your card growth it's starting to break even more from the pack.
And I think we really want to understand what's going on there.
When -- I know you don't provide account numbers.
But when you look at the drivers of this can you give us some sort of sense of a ratio between how much of it's being driven by existing customers increasing balances and how much of it is being driven by net new accounts? I would say that it's been pretty balanced growth.
And we've both balanced between new accounts and more usage from existing accounts.
We've got more from sales as well as more from balance transfers.
And I would say we're getting impact from growing share within existing merchants as well as the new acceptance that we've been able to put in is also giving us.
So each piece may be a percent or so and you have to kind of add it up to get to the 6% loan growth that we're seeing in total.
The one thing that I would say is that we are not sacrificing credit quality.
And if you look at where the growth is coming from it is coming from the medium to high FICO scores bands as opposed to from low FICO score bands.
So the one thing that's consistent across all these channels is it's good prime credit.
Our next question comes from Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> The acceleration in growth on your proprietary card this quarter 3.5% last quarter 6% spend growth this quarter is that primarily driven by some of the new incentives David? And you talked to -- you mentioned teaser rate product as it relates to the margin in the quarter.
What are -- what is -- what are you doing in teaser rates today? I would say there is some promotional aspects.
We had a as Mark mentioned more aggressive promotions this year than we -- than last year.
I'd say that was more to do with -- the difference between this year and last year during the quarter was much more the rewards program and the fact that we are offering up to 5% on both Internet and department stores than it was pricing promotional pricing.
So it -- I think it’ll likely pull back a little bit as we get into next year just as we go back to more normal promotional promotions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the investment that you made the incremental investment in payments and there was a big jump in the payment sector and your operating expenses I think $12 million quarter-over-quarter.
And -- I mean is that primarily -- should we expect to see those expense numbers stay around that level? And is that primarily being driven by PayPal? Or what else that we -- what specifically are you doing in that sector that's driving up those expenses? Bob I'd say there's a couple of things going on in the Payment space.
Specific to the quarter Diners expenses were responsible for about 2/3 of the year-over-year increase.
And they were primarily related to several new issuing relationships that we have talked to you guys about in the past that we established in the last quarter or so.
And you should think about them more as onetime oriented in nature.
I would say that being said as David noted we're looking for a number of other opportunities in this space and actively engaged in those.
So there's possibility as you look forward of other onetime expenses creeping in as a result of that.
So the way I would think about the payments business in 2013 is I would think about it as a year of investments in building to reap real returns down the road.
Don't read that as a big backpedal but also I wouldn't expect the payments business to be the primary driver of growth in revenues and earnings over the course of '13.
Our next question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to hit on the growth questions a little bit more and the promotional activity.
Can you talk at all about the interim month trends in spending? Did you like once the promotion kicked in I believe it was October was there a several hundred basis point acceleration in your spending growth number? And then as I guess more broadly do you think with the loan growth we're seeing this quarter are we seeing any early signs of a pickup in consumer demand in terms of response rates to mail and the one's that to revolve? Is there any of that going on? Or do you think at this point it's mostly just the promotional activity you've had both teaser rate and also any net purchase causing the balance growth to also tick up? Well I think I've already discussed the inter-quarter volume with November being the strongest year-over-year month of the year and then less so in December.
But I think that's not so much related to our -- any promotions we're doing but related to pull forward of retailers broadly sales and to earlier in the holiday shopping season.
And I think in terms of the promotion and I mean we've got a promotion that ran the fourth quarter of -- fourth calendar quarter.
So and it runs through December there's nothing sort of inter-quarter...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Take it through the March to the -- in August and September or sorry so it's September relative to October is it just like a couple of hundred basis points of spending coverage you got from that program? Or was it just minor impact? I think at that point minor.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess another question I have on that topic was just in returns of response rates.
And I have -- a follow-up question would be on the fee income side of the fee products you saw I think on a sequential deceleration in the fee products that the revenue's falling a little faster this quarter.
Does that 7% or so decline does that continue into 2013 as you wind those down? Are you mostly through the wind-down at this point? Yes it's -- as you look at the fee products revenue line going forward as I mentioned we did see some marketing of the products during the quarter.
We took a hiatus here to make sure we have everything in place to comply with our consent order.
It's our intent we will begin reissuing or re-offering those products to our customers.
But in terms of from a guidance standpoint I would say you had what a $5 million roughly sequential decline in revenue related to those products.
For now I would say that's probably a good way to think about the continued impacts going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Oh 2013 $5 million a quarter? Yes I think that's probably a good way to be thinking about 2013 on Protection products at this point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just last circling back any pickup in demand David that you're seeing at the consumer level in your fee service analysis? I would say that we have seen some good results from our Discover it product which is why we've made the decision to roll it out next month.
And so we're looking forward to that launch.
Our next question comes from James Friedman from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I guess I'll ask both my questions upfront.
There was a slight deceleration in PULSE volumes this quarter still good numbers.
Was wondering if that's the mix shift of debit and credit or if there's something more profound related to the FANF or the competitive environment? That was my first one.
And then Mark you had mentioned that the offset that you had a $26 million gain on the sale of minority investment.
I was wondering if you could share more details as to what that might been.
Yes I think in terms of PULSE I would expect a further deceleration in the next quarter.
While I was pleased with the overall growth rate we experienced this quarter and the last few quarters on PULSE that would have been even higher without some of the competitive challenges I'll say.
And one of those competitors is the Goliath in the industry.
And as they continue to roll out some of these new kind of hijacked transaction actions a lot of those were just being rolled out now and will have an increasing effect on all the other competitors in the market including PULSE.
And then with respect to the $26 million gain we don't disclose the specific names but we do have a small portfolio of what I would call strategic minority investments that we make as part of our Payments business where we see opportunities either be able to acquire or more ultimately partner with these folks going forward.
We'll sometimes take a stake in those opportunities.
And when the strategic value either does not pan out the way we thought it would or for other reasons we determine it's just not the right direction for us to head we typically look to monetize these investments.
And I think this one falls into that latter category and just shows that we do know what we're looking at in the Payment space even though it didn't end up working out right for us.
Our next question comes from Sameer Gokhale from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple.
I guess the first one is on your private student loan portfolio you continue to show great credit numbers.
But loans in forbearance do you know how the statistics are if you compare them year-over-year for the private student loan portfolio? And do you foresee making any changes to your forbearance policies as you look through the portfolio and credit quality in the economic environment? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes Sameer I think that our forbearance policies are pretty much dictated by what's allowable in terms of regulations which have not changed year-over-year.
And I think that the big effect for us is that we are going to be going through a seasoning where we've had a lot of growth and we're getting -- we're going to have more of the students that we booked who will be entering repayment for the first time.
And most of the losses or about 1/2 the losses that you occur -- that occur over the life of a student loan occur the first 2 years after repayment.
So as we get more of those people we're going to end up having more people in forbearance more losses and then you get a maturing over time.
And it I would say that business continues to perform on a vintage basis as we had anticipated.
Research Division</strong> And then you've talked quite a bit about credit card loan growth and given some helpful commentary on that.
But that's something which I think is kind of an obvious question but just be helpful to get additional perspective on that.
When you look at the credit card business and the fact that there are of course a few small a small number of large competitors in the business.
And you are investing in rewards and trying to gain share or you are gaining share of receivables how do you think of it from a gain theory perspective? Because it strikes me that you invest on rewards.
You get some share then somebody else invests more in awards and they take away some of the share from other folks.
In terms of the natural growth rate of -- underlying growth rate of the industry doesn't it make sense to dial back on investments just because if everyone starts doing that everybody loses? I mean how you think about that at a high level? Well I think from a high level I think of cards as being a slower growth business.
And so if you think about it that's a little bit more of a 0 sum game our goal is to continue to gain share.
So you've seen us gaining share in loans for now a few years.
And what I see is that while it's a smaller number of sizable competitors today than in the past the good news is they're more rational competitors.
So I think they're not going to be dropping credit standards to reach for growth which is always the biggest concern you've got.
And so what it comes to is us using our competitive advantages to gain share so our advantage in service our advantage in rewards our advantage in growing acceptance our advantage on differentiation including with new products.
And so we're going to be focused on -- from a game theory perspective using all those competitive advantages to gain share in the credit card market.
Our next question comes from Chris Donat from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions on the checking product.
I thought that was something that you had intended to launch in fiscal '12.
And I'm just wondering first if there's anything with the timing that's related to the conversion of your core banking system.
And then secondly if it does launch and does scale significantly could it also be another tailwind to your cost of funds in '13? Well I would say that our core banking system's on track.
I would have loved to have gotten the tracking -- the product out this year.
And it looks like we're going to miss it by a couple of months 5 -- 1 quarter.
But I think what I would attribute more of that to is that it is a more -- it's probably a much more robust product and a better product than what I might have anticipated a year ago.
And so we wanted to really kind of get it right from a consumer value proposition.
And so I am really excited to the able to launch it early next year.
In terms of the impact on cost to funds that's that is our reason for launching it.
We don't expect this to necessarily make money as a product except it's going to be over time a good low-cost stable source of funds and an additional important core relationship.
And I expect it to not have a material impact in the near term because it's going to take some time.
By definition these are the sticky bank deposits.
And so it's going to take some time for us to pry those sticky relationships into a direct banking relationships.
But I'm excited about the technology and the value that we can offer to over time have that start to become a tailwind on cost of funds.
But I think realistically you're -- you'd have to look more in a -- 2014 2015 and beyond that just to really start seeing some movement.
Our next question comes from Daniel Furtado from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This Martin Kemnec in for Dan Furtado.
Quick question on the promotional balances.
I assume that in the low rate environment that it's still positive from an NPV perspective.
But curious when these eventually start to come off their promotional periods is it reasonable to expect that we could see maybe some stabilization in card yields as those balances start earning fees? I think David you may have just mentioned possibly reeling in there a bit or would that not be kind of meaningful enough to really move the needle there? And then on credit Mark your comments are very helpful.
I just -- one a kind of modeling question on the reserve rate.
Is it safe to assume that kind of 3% call it 315 basis points is the correct reserve rate to model going forward until we kind of start to see credit inflecting? So Mark we'll give you more update on the promo rates at Investor Day as we've done the last few years.
But you're right.
We are able to maintain good NPVs with more promo balances and lower rates in today's cost of funds environment than we would in different environments.
And we're taking advantage of that now to be able to offer our customers some very good deals cost effectively.
I guess I would -- I tend to think about as a little bit of a wash that more -- less of being an opportunity.
But more as the rate environment changes then you have to look at your promotional rates and what percentage are at promo where's the duration and all of that as one way to help mitigate some of the less benign rate environment over time.
And as far as the reserve coverage ratio is concerned it's -- we don't really track the reserve coverage ratio.
It's -- I mean we do follow-up we don't manage to it.
It's a rearward-looking metric and we look forward.
I'd say there's a bunch of factors that can affect it.
So not prepared to give specific guidance on what that rate should look like going forward.
What I would do is echo our earlier comments though that we don't see a fundamental turn in credit at this point.
And any reserving that takes place will really be driven in our view at this point based on the seasoning of that account growth.
Our next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
I wondered if you could share some additional thoughts about the dividends.
I know you had a big increase this quarter but it's been a year since the last one.
And your payout ratio is still quite low relative to other very large well-capitalized banks.
And I wondered if -- well actually if you could share your thoughts about payout ratio and how soon you might look to make another change to the dividend assuming the Fed signs off on what you'd like.
Thank you for the qualifier at the end there.
That's helpful.
I guess from our perspective it's pretty straightforward.
We definitely see room to take our dividend payout ratio higher than it is right now.
And I would also say that as we change our fiscal year we may change our quarterly dividend payment dates to correspond a little bit to those of our peers.
I would also say that we've been saying for a long time we'll revisit our dividend no less frequently than annually.
I would specifically reiterate that statement to you today.
Would you consider reevaluating it more often than annually? I don't think I'm prepared to give any further guidance than I did right now while we're in the preparation of the capital plan.
Let's just say we see room to take that dividend payout ratio higher and one should not assume we're going to stay on a December cadence.
How about that? Our next question comes from Ken Bruce from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I think when you look at credit over the last few years it's been a tremendous positive driver for Discover.
And I think it's understandable why you don't expect it to get any better.
And I also understand why you'd expect the provisions to go up as the balances grow.
And that obviously was very encouraging in the quarter.
But what I'm interested in knowing is what do you think that it will -- what will drive loss rates or delinquency rates and ultimately loss rates higher on a percentage basis? Is it just a macroenvironment? Is it the seasoning that Mark you just touched on? Is it lower recoveries? What are you -- do you think is going to drive delinquencies and losses higher? Well I would say a couple of factors.
One is seasoning of the book.
If you looked at the -- how much everyone pulled back during the financial crisis and very few new accounts were booked we're now back into a more normal time period.
And so as the new accounts that have -- are now being booked start the season that will tend to increase the loss rate a bit to more normal levels.
I'd say a second thing is that as we get further away from the very large spike in charge-off rates to some degree people that were close to the edge all got recognized in a short period of time.
So much like the bankruptcy law changed from a number of years ago where there was a trough afterwards and it took a few years but eventually you get back to more normal levels.
So I think as we get away from the spike you're going to eventually start to normalize.
And so those are 2 macro factors.
Then you start getting back into the normal unemployment health care costs divorces.
These are the kinds of things that in prime business tend to drive charge-offs and you get back to more normal levels of all those kind of life events.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And could you remind us what this the timeframe of seasoning typically would be within your portfolio? Typically one thinks about 2 years maybe about 2.5 years as being a peak charge-off and then coming down after that point.
We have no further questions at this time.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
Hope you all have a happy holiday and feel free to reach out to Investor Relations if you have any follow-up calls.
Thanks.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Q1 2013 earnings call.
My name is Vanessa and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this call is being recorded.
And I will now turn the call over to Bill Franklin.
You may begin.
Thank you Vanessa.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us on this morning's call.
Please note that for the first time we have provided an earnings presentation on our website which we will be referencing during the call.
Let me start on Slide 2.
The discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report and in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2012 which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
As previously reported the company changed its fiscal year-end from November 30 to December 31.
For more information including historical calendar year financials please see the 8-K dated March 5 2013.
In the first quarter 2013 earnings materials which are posted in our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Bill.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
I'll start my remarks on Slide 3 of our new earnings presentation.
Before the market opened we reported quarterly diluted earnings per share of $1.33 up 10% over the prior year driven primarily by loan growth and share repurchases.
During the quarter we generated a return on equity of 27% and returned approximately $310 million of capital to common shareholders through repurchases and dividends.
These positive results our capital position and our outlook led our board to approve a 43% increase in our dividend to common shareholders last week.
Mark will provide you with more details about our financial performance for the first quarter but I'd like to draw your attention to Discover's year-over-year revenue growth of 10%.
This shows how the Discover business model is working especially since the financial industry as a whole currently is an environment that poses challenges for achieving revenue growth.
So we will continue with investments to drive topline growth.
Slide 4 of the earnings presentation illustrates some of the drivers behind our revenue growth.
We achieved 7% organic receivables growth driven by a 5% increase in card receivables and a combined 10% increase in private student and personal loans.
Car sales volume for the quarter was up 4%.
We did continue to focus on prime revolver sales and we believe these results underscore the effectiveness of that strategy.
On the Payment side the year-over-year total volume growth slowed down to 2% as PULSE's growth rate decelerated from 11% for the fourth quarter to 4% year-over-year for the first quarter.
This deceleration in growth was something we discussed in prior calls and was mainly due to the impact of merchant routing and competitor actions as well as our focus on profitable business rather than just volume growth.
While the environment remains dynamic we are pursuing a number of strategies that we expect will enable us to compete for a larger share of debit transactions and continue to grow this business going forward.
Looking beyond debit during the quarter we signed our first net-to-net partnership in Africa and we are making strong progress as we continue to prepare for Paypal's staged offline rollout this year.
At Diners volumes were impacted by the continued weakness in Europe and strengthening of the dollar versus other currencies like the yen.
Last month our management team presented Discover's strategic priorities and key initiatives at our annual Financial Community Briefing in New York.
We discussed our profitable growth the credit environment our successful expansion beyond credit cards and our commitment to effective capital management.
We also shared exciting new opportunities including the nationwide rollout of Discover it which so far is driving strong response rates and an enhanced engagement from new accounts.
Discover it was not the only new product we launched this quarter.
We also launched Cashback Checking.
While these new initiatives are in early days I'm very excited about how they will shape the future of Discover.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark and he will walk through the details of our first quarter results.
Thanks David and good morning everyone.
I'd like to start our discussion this morning by going through the revenue detail on Slide 5 of the earnings presentation.
Net interest income increased $118 million or 9% over the prior year driven by asset growth and a higher net interest margin.
Net discount and interchange revenue increased by $23 million year-over-year or 10% due to Discover card sales volume growth and a lower rewards rate.
The timing of promotional Cashback programs drove most of the sequential decline in our rewards rate from 111 to 92 basis points.
For the full year our target rewards rate remained at approximately 100 basis points.
However you will likely see continued quarterly fluctuations due to the timing of promotions as we look to further engage our customers and to drive profitable sales.
Protection product revenue declined by $15 million over the prior year and $10 million sequentially mainly due to the discontinuation of new product sales as well as customer refunds.
We don't currently believe this sequential decline is representative of an accelerating runoff rate but do think there may be some quarterly fluctuations going forward.
Other income increased by $59 million primarily due to the inclusion of Discover Home Loans which was launched in June of 2012.
In terms of production we originated approximately $1 billion in direct mortgages for the quarter.
Payment Services revenue increased 6% year-over-year due to higher-transaction processing revenue for PULSE and higher revenue from network partnerships.
Turning to Slide 6.
Total loan yield of 11.22% declined 17 basis points over the prior year mainly due to card yield compression.
This compression resulted from an expected increase in promotional rate balances as well as an expected decline in higher-priced balances.
Lower funding cost and lower-than-expected interest charge-offs more than offset this yield compression resulting in a 30 basis point increase in net interest margin over the prior year to 9.39%.
We continue to expect some NIM compression next quarter and then margin should expand sequentially in the second half due to maturities of higher rate funding.
Operating expenses as shown on Slide 7 were up $81 million or 12% over the prior year.
Over half of the expense increase is due to higher employee and marketing costs associated with the Home Loan acquisition and the launch of our Direct Mortgage product last June.
Marketing expense was also higher than the prior year due to investments that continue to drive new account growth card utilization and loan growth.
Other expenses were lower than the prior year mainly due to fluctuations in reserves related to legal and regulatory matters.
Payment Services' operating expenses were up $6 million or 18% over the prior year mainly due to higher professional fees and marketing expenses related to new partnership and growth initiatives.
As David and I mentioned last quarter this will be an investment year for payments.
We're working on a number of different opportunities that will depress profits in the segment near term but which we believe will position us for volume and revenue growth over the longer term.
As mentioned during our financial community briefing we still expect total company operating expenses of roughly $3.1 billion for the full year.
Turning to provision for loan losses and credit on Slide 8.
Provision for loan losses increased $75 million in the prior year driven by a lower reserve release for the first quarter which was partially offset by lower charge-offs.
Our forward loss forecast particularly for seasoned credit card vintages improved since fourth quarter earnings.
Accordingly the first quarter of this year had a reserve release of $154 million which I would emphasize should not be used as a run rate.
Net principal charge-offs were down $45 million or 13% year-over-year due to continued improvement in credit.
Sequentially the credit card net charge-off rate increased 5 basis points to 2.36% and the 30-plus day delinquency rate decreased 2 basis points to a new historic low of 1.77%.
The Student Loan net charge-off rate excluding purchased loans decreased 18 basis points from the fourth quarter due to seasonal and growth in the portfolio.
We would remind you that as the portfolio seasons we expect this charge-off rate will rise above 1% and come back down over time to our normalized target of approximately 1%.
The over 30-day delinquency rate increased 26 basis points sequentially.
The credit performance of both our organic and purchased credit-impaired student loan portfolios continues to be in line with our expectations.
The personal loan net charge-off rate was down 17 basis points sequentially and the over 30-day delinquency rate was down 1 basis point.
Next I'll touch on our capital position on Slide 9.
Our Tier 1 common ratio increased sequentially by 110 basis points to 14.7% due to the combination of strong earnings sequentially lower share repurchases and the seasonal decline in receivables in the fourth quarter.
As was previously announced on March 14 Discover received a non-objection from the Federal Reserve for proposed capital object -- actions for the four quarters which we began on April 1.
Additionally our board authorized a 2-year $2.4 billion share repurchase program and last week increased our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.14 to $0.20 per share.
With respect to longer-term capital planning we anticipate being part of the Fed's CCAR review process next year.
Having compared peer reported stress results to those calculated by the Fed in this year's process we believe that our target capital ratio may increase as we become a part of the CCAR process.
Despite the prospects of a potentially higher Tier 1 common target we still have more than adequate levels of capital to drive organic growth and planned capital actions in the current environment.
In summary this was a great way to start the year.
We drove better-than-industry revenue and receivables growth credit performance remained strong and we received non-objection from the Fed on our January 2013 capital plan.
That concludes our formal remarks so now I'll turn the call back to our operator Vanessa to open up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] We have our first question from Craig Maurer.
Research Division</strong> I had a question about network volume.
For many quarters you've been talking about share gains in the network business not just PULSE but Discover Network as well.
And it seems at minimum you've fallen back to the growth rates of the 4-party systems and are now lagging the other major 3-party network.
Do you expect that to recover with the launch of 'it'? Are there other initiatives you can take? Or should we expect more of a lagging position from Discover Network now versus some of the other networks? Well certainly we've had a great track record over the last 5 years or so of gaining share.
It hasn't all been even.
We've gone through some periods of gaining significant share and some much less.
And if you look at the -- what's going on there's not a big change in the Discover side.
It's primarily debit where PULSE has been gaining very significant share.
And as we had suggested in prior quarters some of the trends that we're seeing were concerning some of the new rules and approaches coming out of some of our competitors as well as some routing changes post-Durbin.
And I still do expect in the long term to be in a share gain position.
And I'm particularly excited by some of the new net-to-net partnerships Paypal and others as well as the actions that we're taking within PULSE to confront some of the competitive challenges.
As Mark suggested we are in an investment mode pursuing some of these great new opportunities which I think will pay huge dividends over the long term but I'm not expecting to have big share gains.
We obviously didn't have it this quarter and I wouldn't expect it probably in the next 1 or 2 quarters.
But we'd look forward to returning to gaining share again as soon as we can.
Research Division</strong> And if I could follow up on Paypal are you planning to aid Paypal in their marketing efforts? Or will this be strictly a Paypal effort in terms of actual consumer-focused marketing? Consumer marketing will be Paypal's responsibility.
We are focused on the acceptance side.
And our next question comes from Ryan Nash.
Research Division</strong> Mark just on credit and the reserve losses continue to come down nicely.
I believe you mentioned due to the seasonal loans and the reserve also came down.
Can you just help us understand the path from here? Any changes to your expectations over the next year? And given all the initiatives you have on the lending side can we continue to see the reserve come down at this point? Or is all the provision [ph] that you're going to be doing from here strictly related to growth that you're generating? Yes there's a lot in there Ryan.
I'll try and touch on it all and if I miss anything feel free to hit me with your follow-up.
But I guess what I would say is that credit continues to surprise to the positive.
And I guess that's a great thing at the end of the day.
It validates the underwriting we've done and the strength of the book.
I would say I would not take this quarter's run rate on a release or anything even approximating it and say that's what the -- kind of the future is going to look like and you should extrapolate that out.
I guess what I'd say specifically is at this point in time it's really too early to call if next quarter is going to represent a release or a build.
I think it's a continually evolving situation where in 50 years of the existence of a credit card as a product the models are all built off that history and we've never seen an environment like this.
So I think everybody in the industry is to some degree figuring this out as we go.
We feel good about the positioning and we feel good about where we are.
In terms of the trajectory right now I'd say next quarter could go either way.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on the buyback Mark I know that at Investor Day you talked about getting the payout close to 100% or at least that's cap the way the Fed is thinking about it.
If I look at expectations over the next few quarters it implies a buyback of something around $500 million a quarter or so.
When you think about the 2-year program given that you used 70% of last year's allotment is it feasible that we could see greater utilization on this year's $2.4 billion plan just given the significant amount of earnings that you're generating at this point? Yes I mean I don't think at this point in time I'm going to give guidance on exactly where we expect to end up.
I guess what I'd say Ryan is we -- we're generating great returns on that excess capital.
And we don't -- so we don't feel like we're being irresponsible in that regard.
And we bought back 6% of our outstanding shares last year and popped our dividend 43% last week.
So I think we're trying to navigate a healthy balance between deploying that capital into the business to drive compounding of value and profitable growth over the long haul as well as making sure we don't just start building some giant capital hoard.
I guess what I would say is that it is a 2-year authorization and I wouldn't expect we would over the rolling 4 quarters from where we sit right now I wouldn't expect we'd approach utilizing that $2.4 million (sic) [$2.4 billion].
And we have our next question from Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So when I look at marketing it seemed like it was a little bit lighter than what I had anticipated and kind of what you guys were guiding to.
I was wondering if you could just talk about if there was any change to the competitive landscape that caused a little bit of variance there? I think one of your competitors mentioned where the growth has really been is in the high-balance revolvers.
And I was just wondering if you could just maybe even talk about that and specifically kind of where your growth is coming from versus what you've typically originated in the past? Sure.
First our marketing was certainly higher in the cards this -- first quarter this year than it was 1 year ago.
And I think if you look around you've seen probably plenty of billboards TV spots and so on; I think we've really gotten the word out and we've done it in a cost-effective way.
I think during the first quarter with the launch of Discover it we probably went a bit heavier on some of those broad market approaches because in the test markets they worked very well.
But I'd say we're also now following up with a bit heavier mail.
And I would expect to see our direct mail volumes be a bit higher for Discover it in the second quarter versus the first as we continue to make consumers broadly aware of this great product and grow our business.
In terms of where our growth is coming from I'd say it's quite balanced.
There's still a good amount of our growth that comes from current customers and gaining market share retaining them not writing them off and so that's a big part of it.
I'd say Discover it is attracting a slightly different usage pattern a little bit less balance transfer a little bit more retail sales higher activation and if anything skewing a bit better in terms of the credit expectations.
So that will take quite some time given the size of our book to work its way in.
But I guess overall our growth has been quite balanced and we're going to continue to ramp up our marketing on Discover it.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sorry just one follow-up for Mark.
Mark you just talked about your targeted level of capital going up under CCAR.
Can you just talk -- or could you help quantify how much of a change you might be anticipating? And kind of could you just also talk about why that would go up under CCAR versus CapPR? Yes I would say that we don't Sanjay definitively know that it will go up is the key point.
I think what we've seen is we've compared the same thing you all have and that is we've looked at in the CCAR where there's total transparency we've looked at what the BHCs themselves submitted as their expected losses and hits to pre-provision net revenue.
And we've seen the stress cases that the Fed came back with.
And I think some of our customers have talked about -- or some of our competitors rather have talked about that disconnect.
I think we clearly see a pretty significant disconnect there.
We're just being -- trying to be responsible and say "Hey look as we're looking at this we feel compelled to tell the market this may impact us too." So I think we're just trying to level set that.
In terms of what the impact may be I know this isn't the answer you want to hear but it's the God's honest truth and that is we won't know until we go through the CCAR process ourselves because they don't disclose how this is being done and it changes every year.
But I think the key point to take away is in my prepared remarks one of the things I was very cautious to say is we don't envision any of this impacting our current planned capital actions.
So I'd say it's a bit of an academic point at some level because getting back -- getting down to that target capital ratio as we discussed with you before was going to be a multi-year process anyway.
And it isn't going to impact us near term; we just felt compelled to put it out there.
And our next question comes from Brian Foran with Autonomous.
Just as we think about credit you referenced the bankruptcy benefit in the press release.
Can you just talk through kind of where bankruptcy filings are coming out? Is it just the number of bankruptcy filings are coming out lower than you had forecast or dollars per bankruptcy or what exactly is happening there? Well I think that total bankruptcy filings in the country has been trending down a bit which is different than what a number of forecasters externally had been predicting just a few months ago.
And within that our share of Discover customers who have -- who are part of those bankruptcy filings has also remained quite modest.
And so it's part of the credit favorability that we've talked about earlier on the call.
And then on the net interest margin you had a nice slide at the Analyst Day on the high-cost CD and fixed-rate ABS rollovers.
I was wondering if you could just give us a sense of what the go-to rates are on average for CDs and I guess on ABS; kind of whether you're replacing the fixed-rate or floating rate ABS so we can try to think about what the funding cost benefits might be over the next couple of quarters? Yes I guess what I can say is from the standpoint of the deposits I'd encourage you to just go out and hit our website.
Our posted rates are out there.
And you can get a good sense and a good approximation on the deposit side of the equation where we're replacing those roles today.
With respect to the ABS market I'd point you to our most recent print in terms of how we're looking at life where we're doing a multi-tranched approach.
We're managing the balance sheet holistically not incrementally.
So the asset liability position is -- takes into account a number of different factors obviously.
And we're tranching out some of this with longer-dated fixed-rate ABS.
We're also keeping it somewhat relatively shorter-dated.
So I know that's not a direct specific answer to the question.
But if you need some further follow-up we'll be happy to help you on that as well.
And our next question comes from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> One of the questions that I keep getting is on teasers.
And you did indicate and you've talked before about the fact that you're doing teasers ramping them up.
I guess I'm just wondering if you could give us a sense of how you're managing the credit around the teasers? And also could you give us an update on how much of the teasers that you're bringing in you're able to transfer into multiproduct or extended product-type of customers that helps you get a sense of what their payment history is like? Sure.
Well I mean we're up modestly from last year.
We were around 16% last year.
We're around 18% now and I expect it to be pretty stable from this point forward.
And I'd say from a -- we obviously do it because our net present value say that it's the right thing to do.
That we look at all the different factors how many stay with us the credit aspects and so on.
From a credit perspective generally speaking if you offer customers a lower rate you get better credit.
So a higher percent and the fact that we're in the prime business means that we use it more than someone who's not fully in the prime business.
So I'd say generally speaking what you're seeing with us is consistent with our previous guidance is probably elevated today versus what it might be in a different cost of funds environment because that obviously goes into the -- all the models and is being done to maximize returns and is indicative of a prime faster-growing issuer which we are.
I guess the final set [ph] point I would make is that if you look at our total yield it's strong.
And so I think that -- that is maybe the best indication that we're balancing it all and achieving both growth and profitability.
And Betsy the thing that I would...
Do you have another question? Research Division</strong> No I'm just going to say when it comes off teasers how has the performance on the credit side been? It's been very strong.
What I was going to say Betsy is that I think David covered the first half of the equation which is really the NPVs and the come ons and everything else.
But the second piece of the puzzle is to start watching these vintages very early and things you bring on promotionally and you look to see if you're getting the behaviors out of those accounts that you like to see.
For example if you see an account that comes on and balance transfer in the first 6 weeks they never pull out their new card we probably know that wasn't successful and we need to start really trying to engage that customer pretty meaningfully.
The flip side of the equation if that card gets pulled out of the wallet 16x in the first 6 weeks we're feeling a lot better about it right? So you have to watch not only the cost of acquisition and what the ultimate profitability of those current balances are but you also have to watch that customer the behavior of that customer going forward.
And I would tell you we're very happy with the results from our promos and their activity as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because you've been pretty active in trying to engage those customers quickly can you give us a sense as to has that customer utilization so to speak that pulling out of the wallet been pretty steady state over the past year or so? Or has that ramped up? And roughly what percentage of your teaser customers are you able to translate into active card users? Well I can't give you numbers but I can tell you directionally Discover it we're seeing higher retail engagement a bit lower balance transfer activity than we had before.
So we're -- than history had so I think that the trends have been favorable.
And our next question comes from Donald Fandetti with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> David I think you had mentioned that the Paypal ramp-up was sort of a staged process.
And you may have commented on this already but can you talk a little bit about how many merchants have agreed to accept that and how that staged process could work? And then secondly I know some of the banks have complained that these merchant record models just sort of add risk to the payments system.
I was wondering if you could sort of provide your perspective on that as well? Well I would say that I'm not prepared to give specific numbers.
We're adding acquirers and therefore the merchants that those acquirers go to continuously here.
We're in a very active stage.
I'm very pleased with the number.
We've press released a good number and we're going to -- we're expecting to continue to add additional acquirers to the equation.
I think that what we have committed to do is to work as hard as we can to turn on our merchant acquirers and our entire merchant base to Paypal.
But that doesn't happen with a flip of the switch.
We've done this a couple of times before.
I mean Paypal has got some unique characteristics but we've turned on the JCV and China UnionPay and BCcard and -- we've been working.
There's no one in the industry that's turned on more new networks and merchant base and acquire base than Discover has and I think that's one reason Paypal chose us.
So we're going to be ramping up quickly.
But I purposely used the word "staged" because it doesn't all happen in 1 day.
And I think for us the volume will build gradually and I wouldn't really think about a big volume benefit this year.
In terms of your other part of the question I'm simply not aware of any real issues.
I mean if you look at Paypal itself having 100 million customers and merchants in the U.S.
and around the world I'm not aware of issues that you talk about in terms of merchant of record.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly your sense on April credit card spend trends.
I mean are they holding fairly steady? Yes I'd say April is holding steady with the second half of the quarter.
January was the strongest month on a year-over-year growth rate of the quarter and then it just seemed like things slowed down a bit.
I mean continuing to see growth year-over-year growth but just not as robust as January and it seems like that has continued so far into April.
And our next question comes from Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you guys could give some commentary around the trajectory of capital actions for the rest of the year particularly for the second quarter.
Last year you had a big spike in buybacks in Q2 from almost nothing in the first.
And I'm wondering if it's reasonable to expect a spike in Q2 this year relative to the other quarters at least? Bill I guess I'd lean into my earlier comment and say we're not really prepared to provide a lot of guidance on that front today.
But the one thing I would say in response to your question -- your specific question is that last year's 2nd quarter included a catch-up from our having been out on the market in the first quarter last year.
So I would say spiking was more related to that.
In terms of the year ahead I just point you again to my earlier comment that it's a 2-year $2.4 billion repurchase authorization and I wouldn't expect us to approach that $2.4 billion in the next 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as far as the commentary that you guys have made on expenses I was wondering if you could maybe elaborate on that a little bit.
So you've made it clear that there's some opportunistic investments that you're making this year and that expenses will be elevated and I think everyone was expecting that.
They still came a bit lower than expectations.
I'm wondering if over the course of the rest of the year is there any reason to expect there would be some lumpiness in kind of that expense ratio from where it is this quarter? Or how should we be thinking about the progression of that expense relative to this quarter over the next -- over the rest of this year? And that's it.
Yes I think -- absolutely.
Yes I think you raised a very good point.
It will be a little bit lumpy Bill is the most likely outcome.
I think $3.1 billion on the full year is the right way to think about it.
When David spoke earlier about our marketing expenses he alluded to the fact that we pulled back on some planned direct mail for the quarter and few other things because the response rates we were seeing on the other channels for 'it' were so strong.
So basically what we did is we've taken some dollars that we still fully intend to spend and we pulled them out of the first quarter shock and awe campaign and we're spreading it out a little bit more to be maybe not a first quarter shock and awe but an early part of the year mini-shock and awe would be the right way to think about some of that.
With respect to other initiatives I would say there aren't any that are going to be particularly lumpy through the year other than that marketing line item.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from David Hochstim with Buckingham Research.
I wonder could you tell us in the Payment Services P&amp;L is there much in the way of Paypal integration expense? Is that pretty much done this quarter? Or...
Yes I would say with respect to Paypal we definitely as David mentioned earlier are responsible for the acquisition side of that equation.
And so we are actively engaged in that and there are dollars being spent in that effort.
So what I would say is yes in the Payments line item there are dollars being spent on Paypal at this point in time.
But I would say it's not just Paypal.
There are a number of different initiatives that we have talked about.
I think -- and a number that we have not spoken about if you will that are underway in the payments space right now that are driving some of that.
So I would say it's a more broad-based approach to building out that business that's driving that expense line than it is Paypal driving that expense line.
And then could you just talk about the lumpiness in rewards cost? How much lumpiness? Yes I would -- I'd say for the full year we still expect the rewards rate to be about 1%.
There is definitely going to be some lumpiness in that trajectory based on the timing of our 5% Cashback programs and the way we are going to run these programs over the year ahead.
So what I would say is quarter-on-quarter there's going to be some variability.
I think for the full year though what you should be looking for is the 1% rate is the target we're after.
Then should we -- which quarter should we expect it to be substantially above 1% do you think at this point? Well I would think about higher amounts in the second half of the year.
So just as you saw us being -- I wouldn't necessarily expect it to be quite the magnitude of this past fourth quarter but we tend to be heavier during the season -- the seasonal part of the year and so I think higher in the second half than the first half.
If -- sorry I have one more follow-up above the limit but could you just tell us the -- how much of a distortion there was in the year-over-year growth from leap year David? Is it about 1 percentage point? Was it 2 percentage points do you think in terms of your reported? Yes I think -- we'll let you get away with it this time.
I would think about it as 1 day out of 90 days as roughly the impact.
Our next question comes from Chris Brendler with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a little more on the spending volumes.
Can you talk at all about your merchant acceptance initiatives? Is that still -- I know you're spending a lot of time and effort in improving the sort of virtual or the real merchant acceptance and making sure all merchants are aware that they do accept Discover.
Is that still additive to your spending growth at this point? And also if you could address PULSE I know you have some initiatives just to re-energize the volumes there.
Should those start to kick in and help out the PULSE business in 2013? I think I missed the second question but on the first question I would think about I think it's still -- well increased acceptance is still clearly additive and a tailwind to us.
And that's true both in the U.S.
as we get the remaining merchants on board as well less the online -- the international acceptance that has ramped up significantly in the past few years.
That being said the remaining merchants in the U.S.
are mostly quite small.
And so I think that I would expect it to at this point start to be really a diminishing tailwind because we frankly have gotten the -- we prioritize the larger merchants and there's just not too many of them left.
Could you repeat your second question please? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on PULSE.
I remember from Diane's presentation at the Investor Day she alluded to some new initiatives some routing on signature potentially that would help the PULSE volume help Discover regain some of the market share after Visa's changes that have seemed to have hurt that business starting this quarter.
Sure well I'm not prepared to talk in detail; it would be a longer conversation.
But certainly one of the things Diane pointed out is that we traditionally were a PIN debit network and PIN was about 1/3 of the market order of magnitude.
And you saw us announce in the previous quarter Cadence Bank which was a signature issuer so we're clearly starting to add some signature issuers.
We're also -- have taken close notice to what some of our competitors are doing and we're putting in appropriate responses to really try to provide options across our network for the full range of debit types including as you mentioned signature not just PIN.
And we're actively working with acquirers banks making technological changes to pursue everything that we possibly can to get back into the share gain that we have had for many years.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to squeeze in one more if I could.
Just on the Home Loans business it seems to have accelerated pretty meaningfully this quarter.
Is that business already profitable and do you expect the high volumes and the profitability to continue even under the potential of the refis to start to slowdown? I imagine it's mostly refi at this point.
No problem.
We've said before that it is profitable but it's not -- it's a pretty small part of our profitability.
And like other loan origination businesses we're certainly benefiting from the current significant refinance volumes.
And we do expect those to slow over time.
So we saw a slight slowing in this quarter maybe not as much as some others have so far but we're taking a lot of steps to get stronger in the initial purchase part of the market to enhance our cost structure and ability to remain profitable through other parts of the lending cycle.
Our next question comes from James Friedman with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Mark I wanted to ask also about some of these Payment Services investments; Slide 7 in your presentation.
A housekeeping question: As we see return on those investments should we be watching -- will it show up in Payment Services revenue? Or is it in that Network Partner line item that you have in that separate disclosure? Jamie you're going to see it in both of those line items is the way to think about it.
We're investing pretty heavily in initiatives that run through both of those items.
So what I would say is without really talking about what they are and given that a number of them are in the works and not yet public I can't really do that; I can't kind of give you the break downs for how to look forward.
But I tell you what as this starts to roll forward and as we talk about new initiatives that we make known how about if we just go ahead and let you know where those are going to be reflected going forward? LLLP Research Division</strong> That would be helpful.
We'd appreciate the disclosure.
And then David maybe if you could just talk in more human terms about the partnership with Paypal.
What do they like to work with as human beings as technologists as payment professionals? Observations in that direction would be helpful.
Sure.
Well just one follow-on to your earlier question.
One thing that helps us is that in the network business a lot of it is fixed cost and fixed infrastructure that we are leveraging.
And so that's one of the reasons that getting additional volume on it over time is helpful and why you're not seeing much more massive investments despite some of these big opportunities that we have.
Paypal has been great to work with.
One of the things about them is that they are -- they're a payments company and we deal with a lot of partners.
But they are -- they're a strong technology company and they've been in payments for quite some period of time.
And I think our teams have really enjoyed working with them.
I think one of the things that has been great is the fact that they have really recognized that we are experts at point-of-sale and we're experts at offline network having built it over the last 27 years.
And we recognize that they are very nimble and they have some attributes that together I think is helping us to really do some great things for consumers and merchants.
And so I think they're one of our most important and great partners to work with.
And our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about -- you mentioned a few things about marketing saying you pulled back a little on mail because the other stuff was still good.
Could you talk about the efficiency of your marketing and this program and what you see going forward kind of compared to what it's been in the past? Because I think what stands out to me is that everyone else is kind of sort of making excuses as to why they're not seeing the growth.
And maybe could you just talk about what it is about marketing programs that you find successful and how they've compared to others? Well I would say that we are seeing better efficiencies both on the direct-mail side and the non-direct mail side all the others on this.
And I think it starts with having just a great product.
And we believe that Discover it is second to none in terms of consumer value proposition the rewards the service the fees the services that it provides.
And you see that in some of our marketing where we're doing much more than we have in the past direct comparative charts they kind of point out the fact that we think it's the best in the market.
And we're seeing customers respond to that and prospects respond to that.
So I am very happy that I'm not in a position of having to make excuses.
I'm in the position of working really hard to deliver results.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just if you could follow-up -- any kind of metrics that you can share with us as to what the typical customer kind of looks like when they come on in the terms of either credit line or balance or spending volume just if you could kind of frame that for us? Well kind of as I told Betsy I'm not prepared to give any specifics.
But I would just repeat that directionally whether it's credit or usage or spend we're seeing better performance with Discover it than we did with the previous More card.
And I'm not so sure that it's as much getting a different customer base than it is getting more usage from these new prime customers.
So we're really excited about it.
And Moshe I would just kind of add to that I guess the growth is not coming from issuing bigger credit lines.
Just to be abundantly clear we continue to be real conservative in our credit granting activities and we tend to start customers out with a smaller line than most of our competitors would to be honest.
Our next question comes from Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First I just wanted to clarify the comments around the margin.
Given the strong margin this quarter and the expectation for declining margin in the second but then rising margin in the second half of the year is it reasonable to expect Mark for us to see a margin at the end of 2013 that's higher than where it ended 2012? I'm not prepared to call that yet Mark but I would say it's a possibility.
I think the trajectory of your credit from here and the interest charge-off impact on that will have some degree of bearing there.
Funding costs are rolling on a little bit better than we expected the funding costs were going to be rolling on at quite honestly.
So let's just say it is a possibility.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on your personal loan segment can you talk about how credit there delinquencies and charge-offs were kind of tracking relative to your expectation? And what impact if any the growth in that segment is impacting growth in your cards business? I'm sorry that was the personal loan segment specifically Mark? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes exactly.
Yes I would say growth there right now is tracking in line with our expectations.
I think it's a business that's managing prudently for profitability with moderate growth as opposed to managing with a key emphasis on growth as the key to success in that business over the long haul.
And that's indeed what we're doing.
I would say with respect to credit costs and performance I would say it's a little bit better than last year and also probably a tad bit better than our target as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then any kind of cannibalization effects from that on your card business? No.
I mean -- I mean you can't say there's not any because certainly some of the people who consolidate their debt may have some Discover debt.
But what I'd say is that there's not a change because we've been at this for now a number of years.
And that we've been growing it for a number of years so I'd say it's pretty steady state and the vast majority of the balances do come from external balances that consumers are consolidating to us getting generally a lower APR fixed repayment term paying their debt down over time to deleverage.
And that's what the product is designed to do and it's working well.
And our next question comes from Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the Home Loans side of the equation.
I know that you've talked about expanding in the home equity.
So I was just wondering if you could update us there and then also maybe comment on if you're seeing other mortgage opportunities perhaps maybe more of an opportunity on the jumbos side with some -- still what seems to be some dislocation in that market.
Yes well I would say it's still our intent to expand in the home equity later this year.
However we are still -- there were a lot of new rules that have just come out that were focused on home loans but had some bearing on home equity as well.
So we're continuing to go through there look at the risk reward.
And there's been no change in plans but we haven't actually launched anything yet so we are continuing to evaluate.
In terms of jumbos that's also something we could certainly consider long term but I'd certainly would not expect anything on that this year.
I'd say our big focus in Home Loans is on the business that we've got the conforming Fannie Freddie FHA how do we best serve customers and grow that business maintain or improve profitability.
And that's our biggest single focus.
And our next question comes from Bob Napoli with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A question on marketing I was wondering if you could give maybe a little bit of a better feel for the spread of the budget there.
How much of it is allocated to Discover it versus say the mortgage business versus and is -- are most of your originations on the card business now coming on the Discover it product? Bob I would say yes most of the originations are now indeed coming on the Discover it product.
And I would say the lion's share of the marketing dollars that are going out the door are going specifically to support the Discover it product.
So I think the answer to both those questions is yes.
There are some dollars being spent around some of the other products as well.
But I would tell you they're not the drivers of the Marketing Expense line item and they're not going to be the drivers of getting to that $3.1 billion total OpEx for the full year.
And the one thing I would add is that that's -- what Mark said is absolutely true on the acquisition side.
There's also a substantially substantial part of the marketing dollars that are targeted to our current customers as we offer Cashback bonus programs we have activation balance transfer programs.
So that would go across primarily our credit card base.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Student Lending business are you -- do you remain confident in being able to replace the volume that you lost from the Citibank relationship? Well we -- this was the first quarter that we were marketing entirely with our own brand and I think you saw some pretty good originations doing that.
So I would say I'd let the results speak for themselves.
We feel good about having maintained our volume with the Discover brand only.
Research Division</strong> And then Mark just a clarification you had said -- I was not sure you had -- it sounds like had said earlier that your -- the credit outlook had improved and I'm not sure what you meant -- this was in your opening part of your opening remarks if it had improved from the Investor Day or from year end or what you were...
I would say the answer to that question is both ends.
I would say it has improved since fourth quarter earnings and it has continued to improve post Investor Day.
Our next question comes from Rick Shane with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions one on marketing and one on credit.
First on the marketing side I think that there has been a perception -- and I'm sure you guys receive these questions about the pick up in intensity of marketing efforts that didn't necessarily as we now see translate into expense.
I'm curious if the -- with the Discover it program and/or product and the slight shift in that product is there a greater geographic focus on the Northeast corridor? And is that driving some of this perception? No I think if you talk to folks in San Francisco or Miami or Atlanta they're going to also say they've seen a lot more of us.
It has not been focused on any particular part of the country; it's been very much a national launch.
I think what's different is that we've been using much more -- number one we have a great message to tell.
So I think whatever ads you do get noticed a little more when you're seeing something new and different.
And when we've got specific news on billboards just talking about late fee forgiveness or other things they get noticed more.
But secondly I think that lends itself to more of the nontraditional media some of the top line media like TV.
And our marketing's been moving towards the Internet for years and so Discover it works well there.
But I would in no way think that we've blitzed New England or something on that; it was very spread.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It's funny because we have noticed a lot more radio and a lot less TV.
In terms of the credit one of the -- in response to Brian's question I think this is very interesting -- you basically suggested that the frequency of default is decreasing.
And so if you look at any individual consumer basically what that suggests is that the probability of default regardless of the severity of default is falling.
Given that there is an optimal loss rate within the portfolio and it seems like you're below that is there any shift in terms of risk profile? Are you comfortable taking a little bit more risk if you think that systemically the frequency of default is lower? Well it's a good question and certainly we have seen significantly lower delinquency rates and default rates.
And as you say the frequency of both of those has come down a lot.
I would say that we have continued to try to refine our models to identify other people that would have prime-type behavior and would have low frequency of default.
And so to the extent that we can identify such enhancements in our models we will put them in place.
One of the things that Mark said in his in his -- in the text is that we have seen probably more of an improvement off of the base.
And this may be partly because of the maturity of the base the fact that we've held onto the customers and the fact that the people that at the margin were riskier may have already been written off during the difficult times a few years back.
And what we're left with is people that have extremely low default probabilities.
That doesn't fully translate into new accounts because I don't think we've seen quite the same reduction in that for new accounts.
And therefore I think we have remained fairly cautious on trying to expand.
We're going to be careful not to expand too much for new customers based on the behaviors that we've set -- that we've seen with customers that had been with us for 5 10 15 years.
And our next question comes from Scott Valentin with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> The first question revolves around Student Loans.
The CFPB has put out for comment I guess some comments or request for comment on servicing and I understand they've been out talking to all the major student lenders.
Just wondering if you have any initial thoughts on whether it will have an impact on servicing and whether it may drive expenses for servicing a little bit higher.
Then I have a follow-up.
I really don't have a comment on that.
Certainly Student Loans is one of the important areas that the CFPB is looking at and we would be fully cooperative.
And I haven't seen anything that would guide me one way or another on what it will mean down the road.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow up on the transaction volume.
I think you pointed out in the fourth quarter you had higher rewards level versus the first quarter.
Just wondering if maybe that drove part -- if you think that drove part of the slowdown in spending growth over the course of the quarter or whether you think it was more macro driven? Well our large fourth quarter promotions actually ran through December.
And I guess the fact that our sales continued to be very strong in January after we were into the first quarter promotions would suggest to me that the change is more macro than it was with our programs.
And our next question comes from Sameer Gokhale with Janie Capital.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked.
I guess a couple of them number one I just wanted to get a sense for how actively or aggressively you might be marketing the Discover it card to your existing customer base.
I know you said there were more positive responses and dynamics associated with that product maybe relative to your other products.
So it seems like Discover has been a leader in terms of brand loyalty.
I mean I've had my Discover Card since 1995.
And one of the issues used to be you have the long tenure but you need to stimulate spending.
Clearly you focused attention on that.
But it seems like marketing the Discover it Card aggressively to your existing customer base may make sense so I just want to get a sense for that.
And then I just had a separate question.
Well first thank you for being a loyal customer since 1995.
And I would say that our primary focus has been on originating new -- new to Discover customers.
We certainly make it easy for anyone who wants to switch to do so.
But frankly our More customers like you have been really happy.
I mean we've just won the Brand Keys Award for customer loyalty for the 17th year in a row for our industry.
And so our current customers are quite happy generally.
And I think we see our bigger opportunity to attract some of the other consumers who may not have experienced the service and rewards that Discover offers to the product -- to the company and that's where focusing our marketing efforts on Discover it.
Research Division</strong> But David I mean just along those lines I mean there's difference of having the card for a long time and using it for spending.
So over time have you seen a significant improvement in stimulating spend for those folks? Like can you give us some striation for people who have been with you for 15 years 10 years what the incremental lift in spending has been over time? Because I think that was one of the areas you might have been focused on.
So if there's any data you can share with us to show if there's been an improvement in actual usage among those longer-tenured customers? Well absolutely we've had improvement in usage activation balances from long-time customers from lots of different activation efforts as well as from their experience with us.
As an example customers when you came on in 2000 -- a number of years back at that time we didn't have the broad acceptance we have now.
So you probably increased your usage just because of acceptance.
Our rewards; we've added the 5% program and many other things.
We've chosen to keep all of our customer service in-house onshore unlike other competitors.
So we've had lots of activation efforts.
Over time if we see a way to stimulate more usage from current customers by cross-selling 'it' or what have you we will do that.
But right now 'it' is really focused primarily on new customers.
And the current customers would probably be a potential incremental opportunity down the road but we're pretty busy with new customers right now on that part.
We've got a lot of other efforts for our current customers.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just the other question that I had was on student loans also.
I know that recently you basically said that on new student loans you are not going to be charging any late fees or returned check fees.
And clearly that appears to be consumer-friendly but was that something done in the prompting of the CFPB? And when you think about it competitively I mean there are only you and a couple of other guys are really players of any given size in the Student Loan business so why reduce some of your fee generation opportunities when your competitors will likely match that and then you'll just end up reducing profitability? Why not just leave the model as is? So if you can talk about that that will be helpful.
Sure.
Well that was purely our decision.
There was no external prompting whatsoever.
But we obviously did it because we felt that it would be good for our business going forward.
That -- I don't know whether competitors will match that or not but we certainly think it makes our product even more attractive to students and parents.
And with pretty low delinquency rates anyway with the way we underwrite it wasn't that -- it's just not that big of a -- it wasn't a big revenue producer anyway.
So we felt like it was a good business decision for us to do it so we're excited about it going forward.
And our next question comes from Chris Donat with Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question on the rewards spending which was -- or the rewards as a percentage of sales.
Since it was elevated in the fourth quarter you commented at the time that that was something that you -- that was positive in the sense that it drove higher customer engagement.
And then as commented earlier on this call as our sales drop off a bit like David said it was strong in January.
I'm just wondering how we think about this going forward as a way -- do you feel like it's being gamed by customers at times or does it -- is the engagement really sticky there for these 5% quarterly programs as they rotate through sectors? Well what I would say -- I'd never think about things as gaming I think about things as customers taking advantage of great things we have to offer.
And we are constantly evaluating how much usage how many enrollments what it does to behavior within the category we're stimulating what it does to behavior after the category what it does both during the time of promotion and after the time of promotion.
And so I would just say generally we've been incredibly happy with the 5% program that we pioneered and have offered and enhanced over the years.
And we're going to continue -- I mean it is a promotional programs so we change it every quarter and every year and every -- and we're constantly evaluating how to make it more effective and even better and easier for customers.
And it's -- a lot of it is not about the rate.
It's also how easy is it to redeem how can you redeem with various partners.
What categories is it in -- during what type of the year.
We've got customer service people that actually work with our customers to help them maximize the benefit.
And so it's kind of an all-encompassing program that we'll continue to refine and enhance.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I thought and I could be wrong here but the reward program was maybe too rich in the fourth quarter you've got a number of dials besides -- a number of dials you can turn to adjust this if that's your perception too.
I mean one of the unique things in the fourth quarter we usually do a program by category and we had 2 huge categories.
I mean we had stuff you buy in the Internet and stuff you buy in department stores for 5% during the holiday season.
And so that was probably by far the richest program we had offered.
I think more normally we would offer 1 category not 2 at a time.
But we were in a big push in the fourth quarter and we've got even more take-up than we originally expected from it.
And Chris I would say look from -- to the very hard and specific point of your question yes there is a group of customers who do who will tend to game this process.
All the spend if you will in the card in that quarter is in the 5% category of that quarter; it's a very small percentage of the overall base.
Our next question comes from Daniel Furtado with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
What's your gut telling you is the root cause of the moderating spend we've been seeing over the past couple of months? Well my assessment is that it is kind of in line with what I'm seeing retailers generally report.
So I think our spend is kind of market environment.
And then -- so if you go from that okay is it taxes sequester? I mean I don't have any additional data to say it's -- what exactly is causing consumers to spend a little less.
It's not huge moderation but it definitely seemed to be a little bit lower as I said before later in the quarter versus earlier.
And you've seen a bit of consumer confidence drop off and certainly there have been a number of negatives from a consumer perspective.
But how much is the news about Cyprus impacting how consumers feel versus the taxes is a little hard to parse out.
Even lower gas prices is a good thing for consumers but actually causes a bit of a downtick in spending.
And our final question comes from Ken Bruce with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> My question relates specifically to the balance transfer part of your business.
You clearly have had a lot of success in terms of growing balances using this particular product and you provided some good context for how you're filtering on credit.
I think I'm really adjusted in what your success is in actually retaining those balances as you roll off the teasers? If you can talk about retention and attrition and specifically what your strategies are to improve that as you go through please? Well I'm not going to be able to give you specifics.
And frankly there's lots of segments there's new customers current customers there's different durations different rates.
And we're looking at every cell to understand whether it's adding value or not and then we're making adjustments.
And so we feel good about the efforts.
But one thing to recognize Ken is that while the majority of the 18% is balance transfers as you think about them there's a nontrivial part that's actually retail promotional rates and we do add those 2 together; when we give you the 18% it's really total promotions of BT plus retail promotions.
But there's a significant financial discipline around planning the administration and the analysis.
And frankly it also is changing over time.
We see consumer behavior change a bit depending on what's going on in the environment the interest rate the competitive environment.
So even if I could give you something for a given cell at the current time we may find in 6 months that we're seeing a bit different behavior.
Research Division</strong> And are you able to react to how these consumers behave? So when you see certain behavior whether that be good or otherwise that you can effectively kind of create a campaign that effectively uses that behavior to your benefit? Or is it something that you can observe it and I guess make some general changes over time but you just have to see how things manifest themselves over time? Well I think there's not a lot one can do for something that's already out there.
But I think when we observe behavior and measure it it feeds directly into all of our new offers.
So every month and every week we are determining who to offer what to and so it affects the incoming volumes and terms based on the learnings of the people that went before them.
And we do an awful lot of testing too.
We'll do testing control and some of the things we try work and some of the things we try don't work.
And it's -- the reason we offer promotional rates is to get people to try our product and then use our product on an ongoing basis.
And if we're getting trial but no usage that's not what we want to do.
We want long-term loyal customers.
All right thank you everyone for joining us this morning.
Feel free to call Investor Relations if you have any follow-up questions.
Take care.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the second quarter 2013 earnings call.
My name is Larissa and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the call over to Bill Franklin Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Larissa.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us on this afternoon's call.
Let me start on Slide 2 of our earnings presentation which is on our website and we will be referencing during the call.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC today in an 8-K report and in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2012 and in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2013 which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the second quarter 2013 earnings materials which are posted on our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we have provided financial -- we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Bill.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us today.
After the market closed we reported quarterly diluted earnings per share of $1.20 up 21% over the prior year driven primarily by loan growth and share repurchases.
During the quarter we generated return on equity of 23% and returned approximately $440 million of capital to shareholders through repurchases and common dividends.
Our Direct Banking business again delivered strong results during the second quarter.
Slide 4 of the earnings presentation shows Discover total loan growth at 6% over the prior year.
This organic growth was driven by a 5% increase in card receivables and a combined 10% increase in private student and personal loans.
Card receivables growth continues to outpace our primary peers.
This strong growth was driven by increased wallet share with existing customers and also new accounts.
Discover it our new flagship card product drove strong new account growth in the quarter even while relying less on promotional balance transfers.
Discover it's position in the market continues to be highly differentiated with superior customer value and service and the early results of our advertising campaign are positive.
This campaign Discover it other card marketing initiatives and our strength and rewards have not only helped us grow new accounts but have also encouraged our large loyal customer base to spend and revolve with us.
Also in card I want to announce that Discover has become the exclusive affinity card issuer for 5 universities including the University of Nebraska.
We are excited about the affinity channel for long-term new account and sales growth as we leverage our cash rewards and customer service.
Next I want to address the recent developments in our Payment Services segment.
As Mark previously disclosed at an investor conference last month we have been monitoring the economic situation in Europe and working with our Diners Club franchises during these tough times there.
To minimize any disruption to cardholders and partners that rely on our network for international acceptance we acquired the Diners Club franchise in Italy are providing financial assistance to facilitate the acquisition of the Slovenian franchise by a European bank and impaired certain loans to European Diners franchisees all of which resulted in a segment pretax loss for the quarter.
To be clear our international strategy remains unchanged.
We are a global payments network that operates through local partners.
However the situation in Europe prompted us to selectively become more directly involved in what are primarily corporate card Diners Club franchises.
Payments segment year-over-year total dollar volume growth slowed as PULSE volume decreased by 3%.
The debit environment remains dynamic and certain competitor actions are negatively impacting volume and revenue.
Due to these developments at PULSE and Diners in Europe as well as potential pressure on network partners volume as certain legacy contracts are rebid the near-term outlook for Payment Services is more muted than our previous expectations.
During the second quarter we announced a business-to-business payments partnership with Ariba an SAP company.
With this partnership which is scheduled to begin in 2014 we will leverage our existing network infrastructure to facilitate low-cost B2B payments.
Also after the quarter we announced another Discover signature debit issuer.
We believe that these and other recently signed partnerships collectively present significant long-term opportunities.
However I'd like to remind you that it will be some time before they have a meaningful impact on our quarterly results.
Overall our results for the quarter were positive as credit improved to an all-time low delinquency rate card loans again grew faster than peers and net interest margin expanded.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark who will walk through the details of our second quarter results.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
I'd like to start our discussion by going through the revenue detail on Slide 5 of the earnings presentation.
Net interest income increased to $116 million or 9% over the prior year driven by loan growth and a higher net interest margin.
Net discount and interchange revenue increased by $35 million year-over-year or 13% due to Discover card sales volume growth and a lower rewards rate.
The sequential decline in the rewards rate from 92 to 86 basis points was driven by the timing of promotional cash back programs.
Going forward you will likely see continued quarterly fluctuations in the rewards rate due to the timing of promotions as we look to further engage our customers and to drive profitable sales.
Our target rewards rate for the full year remains around 100 basis points.
Protection product revenue declined by $14 million over the prior year due to the discontinuation of new product sales in late 2012.
Other income increased by $49 million primarily due to the inclusion of Discover Home Loans which was launched in June 2012 and originated approximately $1 billion in direct mortgages during the quarter.
We did see a slowdown in June as mortgage rates increased which will impact origination volumes for the back half of the year.
However I would remind you that the mortgage product is relatively immaterial to our earnings.
Payment Services revenue decreased 8% year-over-year mainly due to lower transaction processing revenue for PULSE.
Turning to Slide 6.
Total loan yield of 11.24% declined 21 basis points over the prior year mainly due to card yield compression.
This compression was split between an increase in promotional rate balances and a continued decline in higher-priced balances.
Lower funding costs and lower-than-expected interest charge-offs more than offset this yield compression resulting in a 16-basis-point increase in net interest margin over the prior year to 9.44%.
We continue to expect net interest margin to expand somewhat in the second half of the year due to higher rate funding maturities more than offsetting yield compression.
Let me take a moment to comment on interest rate sensitivity as there's been a lot of questions on this topic in light of the recent increase in the 10-year treasury yield.
Over the last several years we've taken measured actions in our deposit book to reduce our repricing sensitivity and in the last 6-or-so months we've begun to extend the maturities of our funding.
This has resulted in a balance sheet that remains slightly asset sensitive.
Total operating expenses as shown on Slide 7 were up $62 million or 8% over the prior year.
Marketing expenses were up by $64 million or 53% due to initiatives that continue to drive new account growth card utilization and loan growth as well as the inclusion of our Direct Mortgage business this year.
The 13% increase in employee compensation over the prior year was primarily related to the home loan launch and somewhat higher headcount in other areas of the business.
Other expenses were down $42 million or 23% lower than the prior year.
You will recall that the second quarter of 2012 included a $90 million addition to legal reserves.
This level of legal accruals did not occur in the second quarter of 2013 but we did realize $40 million in other expenses related to Diners in Europe.
Total pretax Diners charges were $55 million which consisted of the $40 million I just mentioned plus $15 million in reserves established against loans to select European franchises.
Due to these charges as well as some additional investments that we'll be making in card marketing we expect total company operating expenses to be somewhat greater than $3.2 billion for the full year.
Turning to provision for loan losses and credit on Slide 8.
Provision for loan losses decreased $22 million from the prior year driven primarily by lower charge-offs due to continued improvement in credit.
The $78 million reserve release recorded in the quarter is net of the $15 million reserve build I noted a moment ago related to loans previously extended to certain European Diners franchises.
Our outlook for -- our credit outlook for cards remains relatively stable.
Sequentially the card charge-off rate declined 2 basis points to 2.34% and a 30-plus day delinquency rate decreased 19 basis points to a new historic low of 1.58%.
The private student loan net charge-off rate excluding purchase loans increased 76 basis points from the first quarter due to both seasonality as well as a larger portion of the portfolio entering repayment.
The upward trend for the quarter was in line with our expectations and we should see the rate move back down next quarter.
Student loan delinquencies excluding acquired loans continued to perform very well.
They came in down 10 basis points sequentially to 1.38%.
Switching to personal loans the net charge-off rate was down 6 basis points sequentially and the over 30-day delinquency rate was down 12 basis points.
Before I move on to our capital position and 2013 outlook I want to discuss our liquidity position.
Our on-balance sheet liquidity portfolio at quarter end was $9.7 billion $2.8 billion lower than the prior quarter and total available liquidity was $28 billion.
Our liquidity portfolio decreased sequentially as favorable capital markets conditions in the first quarter led us to issue term funding at attractive pricing levels to pre-fund second quarter maturities.
Moving to Slide 9 we ended the quarter with a 14.6% Tier 1 common ratio.
In terms of the impact of Basel III we're still digesting the voluminous rules but our current expectation is that it will have an impact of approximately 10 basis points on the Tier 1 common ratio and the impact on the total risk-based capital ratio would be around 50 5-0 basis points.
During the quarter we repurchased $340 million of our stock and we expect to continue at roughly this pace over the remaining 3 quarters of this year's capital plan.
In summary our overall results were strong with an ROE of 23% despite facing some challenges in our payments segment.
Looking forward the credit environment remains relatively benign margin will increase from here in the back half of the year and we'll continue to remain disciplined with our investments for growth.
That concludes our formal remarks.
And now I'll turn the call back to Bill before we open things up to Q&amp;A.
Thank you Mark.
We will now start the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] If you have any additional questions after the Q&amp;A session the Investor Relations team will be available after the call.
Larissa please start the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Mark just a first question on expenses.
So we're going from $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion and I guess obviously some of that is related to the Diners charge.
But how should we think about the reinvesting for growth opportunities here? I know you mentioned some more direct mail.
But could we actually see -- how do we think about the payoff with these investments? Should we actually -- could we actually see growth coming in above your 2% to 5% target range given these investments that you're making at this point? Yes.
I think Ryan a couple things.
You're right.
Over half the increase we expect to see is coming out of the Diners onetime charges that we discussed in our prepared remarks a moment ago.
The remainder of it is going to be increased marketing expenses.
I guess when we sit and look at the performance we're delivering right now we're out delivering in receivables growth both in terms of wallet share gains as well as new customer acquisition.
And the efficiency of our marketing spend right now is measured in terms of CPA cost per account acquired is about as good as we've ever seen it.
And we're driving great ROE's through that all.
So it seems to us like this is a pretty good time to continue to make hay while the sun shines to reinvest to compound the value of the business over time and that's what we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if I could ask one follow-up.
Just when you think about capital I know you'd mentioned the current quarter's buyback as a good run rate.
And If I run it through the model that seems to see that you guys are going to continue to be accreting capital.
And you're about to enter your first year as a CCAR bank.
I guess the question I have is does -- are you -- is there -- are you changing at all the way you're thinking about your appetite to use your capital in a more strategic way? I know historically you guys have done a lot of small deals and grown the businesses over time but is there appetite for some small asset acquisitions increasing at this point given your desire to leverage some of the excess capital? Ryan I'd say we're always in the market looking for opportunities.
I think the key take away I would have is those have to be the right opportunities at the right price.
And I've said it a number of times we won't try and make deals that make sense we won't try and make them make sense.
So we're always out there looking.
I would say we clearly understand that our shareholders are looking for returns of capital and we're working diligently toward that end.
And we'll also look for great opportunities to deploy it.
So if we can find the right situations at the right prices sure.
And our next question is from Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions.
One is on the outlook slide where you indicate credit outlook remains relatively stable.
Could you just give us what that translates into with regard to both NCOs and reserve release or build or how you're thinking about that? Well Betsy I'd say if you look at the record low 30-plus delinquency rate that certainly bodes well for the future.
And obviously the reserve release during this quarter is indicative of an improved forward outlook for losses versus what we were expecting a quarter ago.
But that being said we think we're approaching a level where card charge-offs are about as good as they possibly can get.
And so I certainly wouldn't be counting on a lot more reserve releases or for credit to trend much further from here.
And I think what we described it as is maybe some stability at this point which would be a great thing.
Research Division</strong> Yes stability in the NCOs and then reserve release just flipping to neutral no release no build? Or is there a build in the future? Betsy I would say at this point in time as dynamic as this environment is and I think you've heard me say before in 50 years of history as a credit card as a product we've never seen a situation like we have today.
And so the precision with which models predict is not as good as it would be in normal times.
So I want to be a little bit hesitant to call terms here.
One way or the other I think what I'd say is mathematically there's only so much better credit could get if it can improve.
What we don't see at this point in time is we don't see any signs of a deterioration in the environment in our crystal ball as we look to establish our reserves.
So I would say that.
And then I'd just remind you that we are generating some meaningful loan growth as well and at some point in time that will cause us to return to a build-in provision even if the credit environment doesn't.
The next caller is from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to ask a couple of questions right upfront.
Just on the share buyback.
I guess I'm a little surprised you guys are targeting a level of buyback that's not much higher than last year yet fundamentals seem to be stronger.
I was just wondering if you could just talk about the rationale and potentially having the opportunity to amp that up a little bit more.
And then second on the NIM I know Mark you said the NIM probably is slightly higher in the second half.
I'm assuming -- you're assuming a continued decline in the default bucket.
And I think -- is it kind of safe to assume that that bucket continues to pay down at this lower rate than what you've anticipated? There's a bunch in there Sanjay I'll try and make sure I get it all.
If not come back at us here.
But I would say first of all with respect to the buybacks.
I would say history being revisited a little bit is the answer there Sanjay you have to plan the buy outs in terms -- the buybacks in terms of payout ratios and then you have to plan them in terms of dollars repurchased not number of shares repurchased.
So at the end of the day credit has gotten better than we expected it to when that capital plan was filed and as a result the payout ratios are lower than we expected them to be at the time that capital plan was filed.
With respect to margin.
I would say that there's a number of different factors that are kind of driving my thought process there.
This quarter it exceeded our expectations kind of on all fronts.
Charge-offs of accrued interest were lower than we expected funding costs were better than we expected and the current yield came down less than we expected.
A portion of that being slower attrition in that high rate bucket that you alluded to earlier.
Looking forward I would say we continue to see credit being relatively benign and funding costs obviously being a meaningful good guy here in the back half of the year.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up on the share buyback.
I mean is there an opportunity to go back and potentially ask for more given the improved outlook on credit? Theoretically there is that ability to go back and ask for more.
Sanjay I would say at this point in time as close as we are to kicking off the cycle for the next capital planning process and the like I think our judgment our assessment at this point in time is we'll wait until the capital planning process comes back around again.
The next question is from Craig Maurer from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping that you could provide a little more detail on what's going on in Europe.
Are these banks or franchisees that you're supporting I mean are they looking to walk away from Diners without an increased level of support? And is this a drag we could see increase if Europe doesn't begin to start turning the corner any time soon? And secondly is there anything that you could fathom from tomorrow's regulatory release that you could imagine impacting the Diners business? Yes.
I would say that we have a mix of bank and nonbank franchises in Europe.
And some of them assumed the franchises after Citi exited being the owner of the franchises and some of them have had some liquidity or funding challenges just as so many small businesses and businesses generally across Europe have had recently.
And I couldn't generalize across Europe because we have some very strong major banks who are franchises in some countries and obviously they don't need the same type of support even in the same environment.
We I'd say this quarter we certainly took the ones that were on the problem -- deepest on the problem list we dealt with this quarter.
So we do think that this is a one-time with respect to certainly this magnitude.
But on a much smaller scale we would certainly expect this to be an ongoing but smaller operational drag for some period of time in Europe.
Now Diners Club Europe is about 3% of our total payments volume and about half of that is corporate a little over half of that is corporate volume which may not be impacted by the recent legislation as much as credit and debit is likely.
But we will certainly be spending some time understanding the impact of that on the general market in Europe.
So bottom line is I don't see Europe turning around real quickly but I also don't see it being a major drag in the big scheme of things for Discover.
Yes I would just add to that one that of the total Diners volume the volume sitting in troubled franchises is only about 5% of the total volume so it's not significant.
The next question is from Chris Brendler from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just talk about the growth opportunity in credit cards as we go forward? Another solid quarter this quarter it seems like you're doing a little better than the industry but just given the recent macro indicators it seems like we have this potential for better organic growth.
And I would also like if you could potentially give us any metrics or performance updates on your "it" campaign and how that's going.
Sure.
Well I think the most important growth measure for us is loan growth in cards and I'm pleased that we once again this quarter we're at the high end of our 2% to 5% year-over-year growth in card receivables.
And against the backdrop of pretty much no growth in the industry I feel very good about that.
I think that when I think about the impact of "it " I would most point you to that metric.
Our "it" new accounts and campaigns are not the only thing driving loans up but they're certainly a very important factor.
And I think the differentiation the focus on rewards and service I think is paying off and is causing us to gain share in cards even with a lack of loan growth in the market generally.
So going forward on the one hand we're going to be dealing with some tougher year-over-year comparables for our loan growth in the next few quarters but I certainly hope that we can stay towards the high end of that range.
I have not yet seen statistics that show that the overall industry will really return to growth.
If it did that would obviously benefit us.
But everything I see so far suggests maybe the deleveraging has stabilized or stopped.
But I haven't seen anything that has turned around the other way to cause consumers to start growing credit card loans at this point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up.
Any material changes in the competitive environment? It seems like credit cards despite the incredible returns you're generating across the industry now and record losses and low funding costs competition doesn't seem to be anything more than it's been in the most recent history relative benign.
Any changes there and any comments you have on your balance transfer programs? It seems like it's relatively stable I just want to make sure you're not seeing any changes there.
I'd say generally stable competitive intensity.
As we've said before I think this year we've seen -- and probably in the last few years we've seen more intensity on the competition on rewards and reward cards probably more so than people doing crazy things on either price or credit.
And so certainly I've been pleased with our ability to grow even while keeping our rewards cost at a reasonable level.
With regard to balance transfer one of the benefits of Discover it is that we have been more focused on some of the differentiated features and the rewards program and the service levels.
And while we certainly offer balance transfers we're seeing a lot more retail activity and less balance transfer activity on those new accounts.
And so I'd say that our growth is being driven more by non-balance transfer activities than it has been in the past which is causing that percentage that promo to somewhat stabilize and that is in turn somewhat helpful to the higher net interest margin that we reported today.
Yes if you look -- just add a little color to that if you look at the year-to-date the loan growth that we've posted somewhat less than 40% of that loan growth has been related to balance transfers.
The rest has all been standard merchandise.
The next question comes from Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> David I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about where you are with the PayPal initiative if there's any update at all? And then also card spend into July has that been generally pretty steady from what you've seen in Q2? Sure.
Well I'm pleased with the progress we're making on PayPal.
We've signed over 50 acquirers and we're actually processing some transactions more on a test basis but it's working.
But there's still a lot of work ahead of us.
We've got a lot of acquirers to sign a lot of merchants to sign and board.
And so this will take us some period of time before we see PayPal do their big launch and that will really be their decision as to exactly when.
So progress but a lot -- the majority of the work I'd say is still ahead of us.
In terms of card spend.
The last 6 or 7 weeks have been a bit encouraging I guess if I look at our volumes.
We saw a little bit higher year-over-year growth in the last month of the quarter which kind of contrasts from the first quarter where our best quarter was January -- or best month was January.
So on the one hand it feels like we might have a little more momentum building.
On the other hand you still see a lot of mixed economic data coming in and so I think we'll need to see if that continues and really forms into a trend over the coming months.
And Don I think just to add some metrics around what David was saying earlier.
I think right now we signed up a little bit somewhat north of 50 acquirers in the PayPal transaction.
And there's about somewhere north of 250 000 merchant outlets that are now accepting PayPal as well.
The next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham Research.
I wonder could you talk a bit about the opportunity in Affinity? And kind of how does it -- how does what's being offered today compare to what was common when you were at another company in the past? Are the economics better for you today? Or are you offering rewards? Are you having to pay somebody to help you find partners? Well I think now that we're up to 6 Affinity groups I'm not sure I would compare that so much to MBNA which had thousands at one point.
We're still in the early days here.
I think certainly the fact that you just saw us launch 5 more suggests that we're reasonably pleased with our first one which was Ducks Unlimited last year.
But I'd say we're going to take a measured approach.
And I would say it will be quite some time before we see any material number of new accounts or growth coming from this channel.
The vast majority of our marketing is going to continue to be "it" and then to it -- Discover it and to a lesser degree our gas and airline cards some of the others.
But over time I think this could be an important channel for us.
We've seen competitors really back away.
We've seen a lot of dissatisfaction with service.
And service and rewards are what we are very good at and is what is really important to Affinity groups.
So I think we are entering at this time because there seems to be a real market demand and a fit with our skills.
And we hope to gradually build this into a another leg to the marketing stool over time.
And then could you just update us on where you stand you think in terms of increasing merchant acceptance in the U.S.? Are you very far along are there still lots of opportunities do you think or...
Well obviously the opportunities are diminishing as we sign those holdout merchants.
We -- I can't give you the name right now but we just recently signed probably the largest single holdout merchant.
And by the end of this year we'd hope to bring that merchant on board.
And we continue to work with all the acquirers with some great activation and boarding programs to get not only acceptance but signage and activation of merchants.
So it is something that I -- that we continue to focus very much on to close those last acceptance points.
One of the newer sales pitches we have is frankly the potential for some of the newer partners to provide more usage whether it's PayPal or next year as we launch Ariba obviously we'll be focused on some of the more business-oriented acceptance points that may have an interest given Ariba's strength in that space.
So I think leveraging all these new partners to get the -- those final outlets signed is something we're very focused on.
The next question is from Sameer Gokhale from Janney Montgomery Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question in terms of your provisions again.
If I look back in Q4 I think the provisions were higher than expected and you've given commentary on why those were lower I think in Q1 there was some element of the newer vintages.
As the seasons were coming on at lower losses than what you had originally expected.
So as you think about your new accounts and you're booking them the question I had was are you booking the provisions for those newer vintages to the newer lower curves or are you allowed some sort of fudge factor if you will for lack of a better word to take into account some of the uncertainty and the fact that we're in this low charge-off rate environment as you think about your provisions for losses? I wish we could use more judgment Sameer on setting reserves than we're actually allowed to but GAAP is prescriptive on this one for us so we are setting them based on what actually our credit loss forecasting model shows us we should be expecting.
So they continue to be better than we expected.
That bump up in the fourth quarter was really because we thought we were expecting a bit of a return to normalcy over the course of this year at that point in time and that was factored into our models.
Removing that when that became clear that that was not indeed materializing.
And that has resulted in where we are in right now.
No no please go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just another question.
Another topic was on your utilization rates.
And it seems like based on David's commentary also it doesn't seem like there's much of a definitive styling of anything that consumers are levering up again or borrowing more and as you said you're growing faster than the industry.
But I guess the assumption would be that your utilization rates have not picked up.
And when you price for your balance your teaser rate offers and you think about utilization rates I mean do you assume a meaningful pickup in any of the utilization rates on those accounts or are you being conservative there? Because I guess the concern is that as these accounts roll off with a teaser and you have some sort of assumption that utilization rates will pick up and the economics of those accounts would maybe improve over time.
Those may not materialize.
I mean how do you think about utilization rates given the kind of environment we are in at this point? Well you've got a lot in there.
I think in terms of overall -- I don't see higher utilization rates right now in the industry.
I'm not seeing total loan growth growing at this point.
I think that if I look at Discover it and that's where the vast majority or most of our new accounts are coming from today if I look at their utilization rates they are actually markedly different than some of our previous vintages.
And within that I'm seeing higher activation rates higher retail spending per account and lower balance transfer per account.
And I would say that one of the things that we were counting on that we tested last year with the product and then has borne out so far this year is that we could get enough increase to activation and usage to be able to back off a bit on balance transfer and to offset some of the loss of income for some of the -- not repricing if someone goes delinquent or to post payments as current if we get them by midnight through any channel.
So less late fees.
So it's a better value proposition for consumers and so there's higher utilization that we think will offset that.
And we believe that is largely playing out that we've got pluses and minuses.
But on net given what's going on in the industry we have to gain share and we're doing that through a highly differentiated product in Discover it.
The next question comes from Bill Carcache from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to make sure that I understand all the commentaries surrounding the Diners charge.
Mark I thought that I'd heard you when you've talked about it previously kind of characterize it as one-time in nature.
But David I thought I'd heard you say during your comments tonight that you expect an ongoing operational drag from Diners in Europe.
And then I guess when you combine that with the fact that you guys added a line item to the Payment Services segment called provision for loan losses where in the past -- it's a little bit kind of confusing to me because in the past I've always looked at this as a line where there was no credit risk.
And so I guess when you put all that together are we to kind of expect that there's going to continue to be a number here going forward in future quarters for future reserve builds or future provision relating to this segment.
Could you maybe just give some commentary around that? Yes no problem Bill.
I guess what I would say is a couple of things.
Number one the $55 million charge we're taking this time is clearly one-time in nature.
And I would say is there an operating expense drag associated with bringing these franchises on to our books Italy and the processor that comes along with Italy on to our books at this point in time the answer is yes.
There's a very modest operating drag.
I would say it's not material to DFS overall which is why we specifically have not called it out.
But there will be a modest operating drag associated with that.
The line item that showed up in the Diners P&amp;L or the payments P&amp;L that you're specifically referring to is not related to consumer or corporate credit extensions to cardholders.
It's related specifically to the loans we had extended to those franchisees when they began encountering difficulty to try and get them over the hump as it were.
So that was the thought process behind that and that's what those are related to.
I guess the best way I can help you size it is again to say that yes there's a modest run rate drag but it's not material to DFS overall.
There's about $40 million more of these loans outstanding roughly and that's it.
So that's a very modest number as well.
And I would anchor you back to that only about 5% of the total Diners volume is sitting in franchises we consider to be troubled today.
So are there a couple of European challenges around Diners? Yes you bet there are.
It is something that's going to materially drive our run rate earnings profile in a bad direction going forward? No I don't see that either.
To be clear Mark I think the $40 million -- $40 million gross loans of which we've impaired $15 million.
That's correct.
That is correct thank you for the clarification.
So that's not a huge net.
That's correct.
Thank you David I appreciate that clarification yes.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess the other question I had was within student -- private student lending.
We saw delinquency rates went down but we saw a little bit of an increase in charge-off rates both excluding PCI and as well as just the reported rate.
Can you talk a little bit about that? And could you give a little bit of commentary on -- there was an article that I saw about you guys giving -- expanding cardholder access to free ATMs.
Maybe if you could just comment a little bit on that and that's it.
I'll cover off on the student loan one then I'll punt the ATM issue over to David to address.
I guess what I'd say is a couple of different things taking place in the private student loan space.
I guess first of all we typically tend to see an uptick in losses in the charge-off rate from the second -- from the first quarter into the second.
You can see if you look back last year that occurred as well.
What you have is an element of as these loans come out of deferral and then come in to a repayment period you begin to see a lumpiness factor of that.
A number of those folks will come back current again at some point in time.
But you also recognize you take the majority of the losses you take on a student loan account in the first 2 years after that loan comes out of deferral.
So as we have a portfolio that's seasoning what we've said is that we expect the loss rates to rise up above 1%.
They'll come back down over time.
So our expectation is yes the charge-off rate spikes.
It's our clear expectation.
You'll see that come back down again meaningfully next quarter.
But losses overall we'll continue above that 1% level until we reach a stabilized level in the organically originated portfolio.
And David I'll kick it to you for the ATMs.
Yes.
And you may recall that earlier this year we launched Discover Cashback Checking.
And with no minimums and cash rewards on debit bill pay and checks written.
And in doing so one of the features we had is we have access to a full million ATMs around the globe on our network.
But within that we announced that we were establishing a network of no-fee cash advance or cash access locations.
And these are ones that we don't charge an ATM fee anywhere but these are ones where the ATM operator also doesn't charge any so there's no fee at all to the consumer.
Allpoint we've just added was -- I think Allpoint announced it themselves yesterday this week.
And they -- that one is the largest single network and it's combined now with another network we had already signed.
And so together we're going to be able to -- we are able to offer our customers access to a larger network nationwide of no-fee ATMs than even the largest single traditional branch bank in the country offers.
So I think it's a very -- makes it's a very competitive offering and we will look forward to growing that checking account product in our current customer base this year.
And I look forward to sometime next year launching it broadly to customers beyond the current Discover cardholder base.
The next question is from Ken Bruce from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I would like to revisit capital management.
I realize we're at risk of beating a dead horse but it's an important issue.
Discover continues to have a very high capital ratio.
You're accumulating capital at a very good pace just given that credit is good and it looks like it's going to remain that way for a while.
I guess understanding you're not going to go back in to see if you can top up the buyback this year.
Do you think that as you think about the capital plan for 2014 there's an opportunity to be more aggressive in terms of what the payout rate would look like? Do you think that the environment is such that that has a good likelihood? Or do you think that you have to look at other strategic uses of capital in -- specifically around M&amp;A? what types of properties would you be most interested in looking at that would absorb the excess capital? Yes.
Ken I would say I think as we look to the capital plan yes we will look to be more aggressive than we were this year would be our hope and our thought process.
I would say the plan itself we were more aggressive than we're actually realizing.
I think there's 2 things.
Number one credit has gotten better than we expected it to and lasted -- that trend has continued longer than we expected it to.
And number two our stock prices had a great rise as well associated with it.
So given that you have to plan payouts in dollars as opposed to payout ratios there's been some constraining factor there.
So we have not been able to achieve what we had filed and hoped to achieve quite honestly.
Just to be abundantly clear about it.
Going forward it would be our clear expectation that we will learn from our mistakes.
We did better at it this year than we did the year before but we clearly have room to do even better at it next year would be my general sense.
Then kind of talking about the M&amp;A side of the equation I guess what I'd do is I'd just kind of reiterate my prior comments.
I think when you start getting too excited about M&amp;A is when you can make a lot of mistakes.
Discipline is the keyword around this place when it comes to M&amp;A.
So I would say if we found the right opportunity and that right opportunity was priced correctly we would be as intrigued as we ever were to pursue that opportunity.
But it would have to fit strategically it would have to financially make sense.
What we won't do is stretch to make something make sense just because we have some excess capital.
And if I could just add Ken I think if you look at the fact that we actually took 6% of our share count out over the last year and increased our dividend from $0.14 a quarter to $0.20 a quarter I don't think you see too many companies in financials who have actually had that level of impact with our current capital management.
And I mean I guess it's a nice problem to have.
And maybe we wish we had done even more but it's a pretty strong record of capital return.
Research Division</strong> Yes -- no that's not meant to be a critique in any way.
In fact I think it’s very much a unique scenario that you have in front of you just in terms of how things have played out on the credit front.
And these situations obviously have another there's element here in terms of the decision-making in terms of what can get approved.
And I was trying to get a sense if you thought that the environment was one that you would be able to take up that payout ratio or not.
It's not meant as a critique I think you've got a huge opportunity.
I'm just wondering if the environment is ripe to take advantage of that.
So that's really...
Clearly the current horizontal review process does not especially favor folks who enter it with excess capital.
Let's put it that way and we're going to work diligently to try and increase the returns.
The next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
But one of the topics that you did talk about David that maybe you could revisit a little bit is this idea of competition.
I mean you mentioned actually that strong balance growth the industry is kind of maybe getting a little better but still not anywhere near where you guys are at an attractive cost per account and less reliance on balance transfer.
I mean anything else that you can kind of talk to? Because I mean you don't -- every single day you see another kind of cashback card being thrown out there.
So what -- how have you been able to achieve that? I mean it seems like an even -- I guess an even better performance given the backdrop.
Well thank you we're proud of it.
I would say that number one we focus very hard on being the leader in cash even though there's a lot more people in the space.
And I'd say the other thing is there's a lot of execution beyond cashback bonus providing great service because it's a lot easier to grow when you're not losing people out the back end.
Having very strong credit environment process to make the right credit decisions on the front end and I think even the execution of our advertising campaign our sponsorships of the NHL and college football all of these things work together.
And I think the thing that we're focused on is not just executing for today but planting seeds for tomorrow.
And so you're seeing us tiptoe a bit into the Affinity market and do some things that we think will help us to continue to be able to gain market share over the long term.
Not standing still but being an innovator.
Research Division</strong> And maybe just to follow up quickly.
I mean what would you consider a success over 2 to 3 years from the Affinity channel? I mean how would you kind of think about framing that? I would not venture on anything on that.
We're still in the early days.
I mean we're in Affinity group #6.
And so I mean we wouldn't have done it if we didn't think that it couldn't be important over the long term.
I would think more about what it could be over a 5-year term.
And I think over a 5-year term we have some good aspirations for it.
But I think this year or next year it's not going to make much difference.
Discover it is going to be it.
The next question comes from Chris Donat from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> I have one question on the rewards element.
And I know you've given commentary about the sort of 1% or 100 basis points for the full year.
But just trying to understand how much of the volatility in the rewards level is driven by the 5% rewards program that rotates through every quarter.
Is that a big chunk of it? Or do you have just a whole portfolio of rewards programs that cause the number to move around? It is in fact promotional rewards that causes volatility.
As you would expect the underlying programs are quite stable quarter-to-quarter.
And the 5% is our biggest single promotional aspect.
We have others related to new accounts.
We have programs with individual merchants and special redemptions so there's a host of promotional activity designed to try to get people to make Discover their primary card to use us in categories that they may not be using us in historically.
And so that will cause it to fluctuate and as you'd expect we tend to have more of those promotions around the holiday season which is one reason you see generally a little lighter time in the second quarter and a little bit heavier in the second half this year -- of the year.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> And then just one quick one on the home loans.
I understand we're in a different mortgage environment.
Can you talk a little bit about the flexibility you have on the expense side on that business in a different rate environment? Yes.
I think like all kilty [ph] businesses there's a much greater degree of flexibility in some of those businesses than there is in others.
I would remind you that for us this is a pretty small business at this point in time and we are building it up for what we want it to be as opposed to having been feeding at the trough and now looking to pare back expenses.
So I think we'll be prudent managers.
As it relates to that we definitely have some flexibility.
But I wouldn't think we would be taking actions to the magnitude that some of our competitors have shall we say.
The next question comes from Rick Shane from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a little bit of a strategy question.
The structural changes that we've seen over the last couple of years seem to be driving down loss rates through lower frequency of default as opposed to severity of default.
Given that trend and what you guys are seeing do you feel comfortable widening the credit funnel just a little bit? Because it seems that for each borrower who's out there the probability of default seems to be structurally changed.
Well certainly the lower frequency has been the bigger driver although the average losses also declined over time.
And I would say that where we can find pockets of being able to approve people for accounts that we think will produce the right returns and the right loss characteristics over time is a dynamic process and we're always fine-tuning those models.
But I would say we're also being cautious because we know that losses will not remain this low forever.
And -- but yet we're going to need to live with our credit decisions today for a long long time.
Especially given the fact that we tend to retain our customers for a long long time.
So we are not just going to reduce our credit standards to try to get the overall losses back up to the level they used to be.
Instead I think that there will be a new lower level of losses in the industry and in our company and it's a little hard to tell exactly what that is but it's certainly lower than history.
The next question comes from Mark DeVries from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if I missed this during your prepared remarks but could you discuss the decline in the transaction processing revenues? Was that related to the merchant routing competitor actions that you referred to? And if so is there a potential for a little bit more of a decline in that as the kind of actions of your competitors kind of shake out? Well I think that PULSE has gone through a period of great share gains and growth over the last 6 or 7 years generally.
But I think we are right at the moment in a much more challenging time because of some of the rules tying PIN debit and signature together.
Some of the pricing strategies are fixed and variable designed to really benefit a 70% market share player.
And we are doing our all -- absolute best to maintain volumes and margins.
But we're going to continue to be under assault here for a while.
We've got an awful lot of strategies.
I was real pleased that we announced our second signature issuer this quarter.
And so -- being the only PIN network that also has a signature strategy and being able to compete in signature which represents about 2/3 of the total U.S.
debit volume I think is an important part of that strategy.
But focusing on our individual pricing the partnerships how can we add value working with issuers working with acquirers working with merchants we're going to be pulling all those levers but I do not -- I do expect PULSE's volume to be down year-over-year.
And that's the first time we've been in that position probably since we bought the company.
But what we're focused on doing is turning things back to a growth opportunity for the longer term.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then a second question.
It looks like the protection products revenues stabilized at least Q-over-Q.
Has that bottomed here or is there still room for a little bit more attrition in that revenue? I would expect you'll see continued attrition in that revenue.
In the first quarter I think it was a little bit greater than we expected because there were some customer refunds that were issued in addition to the impact from the discontinued sales.
But we've got a big interest [ph] trading book.
And since we discontinued sales the top of the funnel was not being refilled if you will.
So we would expect that over time as cancellations occur or as deaths occur whatever the case might be.
That book will begin to attrite until such point in time as we make a decision about reentering the marketplace.
The next question comes from James Friedman from SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> David I just wanted to follow up in your response to that prior question.
With regard to the trends at PULSE and the fixed versus variable fee among your big competitor would you consider legal or injunctive relief to try and pursue some remedy relative to their pricing strategy? And I have a quick follow-up after that.
Well I'm not -- I would say that we certainly look at all of our options.
I think the primary focus is doing everything we possibly can do from a competitor perspective and that's where our -- that's where our primary attention is.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to finish that.
Do you anticipate that the Department of Justice inquiry in this very area will lead to some relief for PULSE? I couldn't speculate on what the Department of Justice may or may not do.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a related but slightly separate question Mark the Payment Services expenses on Slide 7 did accelerate this quarter.
I'm sorry if I misheard this or if you didn't reference it.
But it did increase in excess of the decline in the revenue I was just wondering if there was some more color on that the $37 million going to $86 million? Yes that's going to be the charges related to Diners.
The one-time charges that we're taking this quarter that are flowing through that segment of the P&amp;L.
It was around $40 million in operating expenses.
The next question comes from Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> The growth rate in consumer loans seemed to pick up a little bit this quarter.
And you also talked about entering the home equity market.
And so I was wondering if you can maybe give a little bit of an update on the consumer loan business and your thoughts.
Why did it accelerate this quarter? And then your thoughts around entering home equity.
Well I would say that kind of what I said before I mean we're at the high end of the range on card growth that we had expected.
And I'd be thrilled if we can maintain it at close to the high end of that range.
I'm not sure that I would at this point count on it accelerating beyond the growth track.
And the fact that we're the fastest-growing of the major card issuers if we can hold this kind of level I'd be really pleased.
With respect to home equity we do expect to enter that business next quarter.
And I wouldn't expect that to be a big contributor to loans this year.
But certainly it should be a contributor next year.
Research Division</strong> David I thought my -- maybe I misspoke.
I thought -- now at the consumer loan business I wasn't -- I didn't mean credit cards.
The acceleration -- sorry...
I'm sorry personal loans.
Personal loans yes we have seen great results in that business and certainly there's still a good number of consumers who want to consolidate and pay down debt which is the primary focus of that product.
You can see in the credit metrics that it's performing very well for us.
And so we did intentionally make some additional investments to grow that business a little bit faster.
And I was pleased with the results this quarter.
Research Division</strong> And you expect that to continue? I expect it to continue to be the highest percent year-over-year growth of our loan businesses for some period of time.
Research Division</strong> Then last question.
Could you just remind us -- remind me what the primary differentiators are for the "it" product? And how unique it is and how sustainable that advantage is? Well I'd encourage you to go on our website and apply and experience it yourself.
One of the things about Discover it is that there's a whole page of differentiating features.
So that's why I can't just say "Well it's these 2 things." There's a whole series of them starting with the great rewards program including lower fees higher service and even a cool look for the card and how it's delivered.
And it's a total package of differentiated features and one of the things that we tend to use in our marketing materials is one that shows how each feature compares to a bunch of major competitors.
And there's a few that are unique across all competitors but there's a bunch where only one other competitor has it.
So the fact that we've sort of brought some unique and some the best of everything is how we designed it and why I think the appeal is so great for consumers today.
And Bob if you go out to our Investor Relations website and pull down the Investor Day deck the page that David is referencing is contained in that deck.
The last question is from Daniel Furtado from Jefferies &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I just had a cursory question on recoveries.
It seems like recoveries are beginning to trend down the last couple of months but we're still way above historic levels.
I assume as we move further away from the bulk of charge-offs and the crisis that we can expect that to come down a little bit more.
And I know you haven't typically sold those charge-off loans.
But can you give us a sense of kind of the magnitude or the duration of the expected normalization of recoveries? Well that last point you mentioned is important that we don't sell our recoveries.
And that's one of the reasons the recovery stream has held up better because we didn't sell them and recognize a gain a few years ago like almost all of our competitors did.
But certainly as we move further and further away from the crisis and the peak of our charge-offs we will have less and less inventories and those will be older.
And so we certainly expect recoveries to diminish over time because charge-offs are so low now we're simply not adding fresh charge-offs to that inventory that could lead to recoveries.
We have no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Bill Franklin.
Thanks Larissa.
As a reminder the Investor Relations team will be here this evening if you guys have any additional questions.
I want everybody to have a good evening.
Bye.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the third quarter 2013 earnings call.
My name is Robert and I will be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Bill Franklin Investor Relations.
Mr.
Franklin you may begin.
Thank you Robert.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us on this afternoon's call.
Let me start on Slide 2 of our earnings presentation which is on our website and we will be referencing during the call.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC today in an 8-K report and in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2012 and in our Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30 2013 which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the third quarter 2013 earnings materials which are posted on our website at discoverfinancial.com and have been furnished to the SEC we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
Now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Bill.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us today.
After the market closed we reported third quarter net income of $593 million or $1.20 per diluted share with a return on equity of 23%.
EPS was down versus last year as the prior period included a large reserve release.
Excluding the impact of reserve actions and onetime items core earnings per diluted share increased by 12% over the prior year driven by loan growth and share repurchases.
During the quarter we returned approximately $450 million of capital to common shareholders through share repurchases and common dividends.
Card receivables grew 4% over the prior year which along with the combined 11% increase in private student and personal loans drove total loan growth of 5%.
These results show that in a tepid economic environment Discover continues to achieve profitable loan growth.
Card sales volume for the quarter was up 3% over the prior year but on a day adjusted basis sales were up over 4% in line with card loan growth.
Increased wallet share and new accounts continue to drive card loan growth at the upper end of our targeted range despite tougher comps.
Discover it is generating good response rates and resulting in a more purchase active card member with less reliance of balance transfers at acquisition.
We expanded our product suite by launching Discover Home Equity Loans in August.
While it will be some time before this product contributes to the bottom line launching the product at this point in the housing recovery makes sense.
We were also pleased with the origination volumes in student and personal loans.
Private student loan origination volume is on track to overcome the absence of the CitiAssist brand which made up nearly half of the originations in 2012.
Through card student loans personal loans home loans and online deposits Discover is offering consumers a broad spectrum of financing and savings alternatives to meet their needs.
In payments year-over-year total dollar volume growth slowed as PULSE volume decreased by 2%.
Diners volume also decreased 7% mainly due to the impact of currency exchange rates.
The debit environment remains dynamic especially with Judge Leon's ruling which will likely slow down the rate of new deals signed in the industry.
This combined with the economic environment in Europe and potential pressure on Discover Network partners' volume as we mentioned last quarter continues to keep our near-term outlook for Payment Services muted.
However we remain optimistic about the segment's long-term potential.
Overall our results for the quarter were positive as we once again exceeded the industry average card loan growth organically grew revenue and charge-offs continued to improve producing an outstanding return on equity.
Now I'll turn it over to Mark who will walk through the details of our third quarter results.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
As I've done in the past I'll start my prepared remarks by going through the revenue detail on Slide 5 of the earnings presentation.
Net interest income increased to $122 million or 9% over the prior year driven by loan growth and a higher net interest margin.
Net discount and interchange revenue increased by $23 million year-over-year or 9% due to Discover card sales volume growth as well as a lower rewards rate.
The rewards rate was slightly lower compared to the prior year but increased sequentially from 86 to 98 basis points driven by the timing of promotional cash back programs.
As we've said in the past you should expect to see quarterly fluctuations in the rewards rate as we look to further engage our customers and drive profitable sales.
Protection product revenue declined by $14 million over the prior year due to the discontinuation of new product sales in late 2012.
Other income decreased by $58 million due to lower direct mortgage-related income and the inclusion of a $26 million gain on sale of a minority investment in the third quarter of last year.
As expected Discover Home Loan originations slowed down during the third quarter as rates increased and refi volumes decreased significantly across the industry.
After the quarter end we eliminated some positions to better align our cost base with lower mortgage volumes.
As we've said before home loans are a key direct banking product for Discover but due to the relatively small size of the business they have been and they will remain relatively immaterial to our overall earnings profile.
Payment Services revenue decreased 11% year-over-year mainly due to lower transaction processing revenue for PULSE.
Turning to Slide 6.
Total loan yield of 11.29% declined 10 basis points over the prior year mainly due to card yield compression.
This year-over-year compression was split between an increase in promotional rate balances and a decline in higher rate balances.
Lower funding costs and to a smaller degree lower interest charge-offs more than offset this yield compression resulting in a 25-basis-point increase in net interest margin over the prior year to 9.64%.
Operating expenses as shown on Slide 7 were down $58 million or 7% over the prior year.
The increase in employee compensation was primarily related to a higher headcount to support growth as well as new product initiatives.
Despite maintaining higher advertising in support of the it card marketing expense remained flat with the prior year.
Other expenses were down $76 million as the third quarter of 2012 included a $96 million addition to legal reserves.
Operating expenses for the Payment Services segment increased by $10 million over the prior year mainly due to increased operating costs associated with Diners.
This increase in cost is primarily related to the second quarter Diners acquisition which will continue to have a modest ongoing operational drag for some period of time.
Overall I remain pleased with our expense control as we managed our expenses in line with our target efficiency ratio of approximately 38%.
Turning to provision for loan losses and credit on Slide 8.
Provision for loan losses increased $197 million from the prior year driven by an increase in loan loss reserves.
Our reserve build during the quarter mainly reflects 2 things: first lower expected recoveries on well-aged charge-offs; and second loan growth.
Since we didn't sell any of our charged-off accounts during the recession we experienced strong recoveries on a large inventory of charged-off accounts as the economy improved.
But as we get further away from the recession the benefit of these elevated recoveries is diminishing.
You can see the slow decline in the recovery rate in our Trust filings over the last year.
So the key takeaways with respect to the reserve build in the quarter are that first we're growing our receivables base well; and second we aren't refilling the charge-off bucket at a rate sufficient to maintain recoveries at the levels we have seen over the last several years.
To be abundantly clear our credit outlook for cards remains relatively stable.
Sequentially the credit card net charge-off rate decreased 29 basis points to a record low 2.05% and the 30-plus day delinquency rate of 1.67% remains fairly close to the record low established last quarter.
The private student loan net charge-off rate excluding purchase loans increased 59 basis points from the prior year due to a larger portion of the portfolio entering repayments and decreased sequentially by 25 basis points due to seasonality.
Student loan delinquencies excluding acquired loans increased 22 basis points sequentially to 1.6%.
Switching to personal loans the net charge-off rate was down 23 basis points sequentially and the over 30-day delinquency rate was 0.65%.
The sequential decrease in the personal loan charge-off rate was primarily driven by growth.
Moving to Slide 9.
We returned $450 million of capital to shareholders grew total loans by 5% and ended the quarter with a strong Tier 1 common ratio of 14.7%.
Our outlook for the rest of 2013 remains relatively unchanged.
Looking forward we expect the credit environment will remain benign net interest margin will remain elevated and we will continue to remain disciplined with our expenses and our investments for growth.
That concludes our formal remarks.
So I'll turn the call back to Bill.
Thanks Mark.
As a reminder everyone please limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up question.
Robert we'll take the first call.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just talk about charge-offs.
I think it sounds like you guys expect gross charge-offs flattish for the foreseeable future but recovery rates to decline causing some mild pressure on net charge-offs.
Is that right? And then on the recovery rates could you just talk about what a steady-state recovery rate looks like and how long it would probably take to get there? Because I look back and it looks like the recovery rates used to be around 90 basis points versus 120 basis points year-to-date.
Yes.
Sanjay if I don't catch all that use your follow-up to bring me back to it.
I would say with respect to charge-offs I would take you back to our earlier commentary we believe the credit environment is going to remain relatively benign.
The key issue that caused the reserve build with respect to charge-offs this quarter again was very clearly what we perceived to be something good and that is that our current book is not having enough migration into the charge-off buckets to replace the level of recoveries that we've been enjoying from the large block of unsold accounts post the recession.
So realistically I would say benign credit environment with no turn in sight as we see it right now.
Absent some exogenous variables is kind of what I'd be thinking about.
In terms of normalized recovery rates I would say the number you use in normalized terms is probably a pretty decent number.
I think the bigger challenge is we obviously aren't in a normal time at this point in time.
So it's kind of hard to say exactly where it's going to be.
None of us in our working lives have ever come through nor been in an environment like we're in today.
So -- but that's as good a number as any to use on a normalized basis I would guess.
Our next question comes from Mark DeVries from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I actually wanted to follow up on the charge-off question.
I'm just kind of wondering about the broader need to take up your reserve rates this quarter when granted delinquencies were up Q-over-Q but they're actually up less than seasonality would normally dictate suggesting you still may not even have found a trough yet for charge-offs.
Could you talk a little bit more about that Mark? Sure.
Yes.
We -- just to remind everyone we set our reserves on a 12-month forward-looking basis.
So I know one of the key metrics you guys all have to look at is that reserve coverage ratio that's really more of a rearward looking metric.
Just to remind everybody we don't focus on that at all.
It's not a factor in our reserve setting decisions or discussions.
And as we look at what's going on I would again echo the comments that we see a very benign credit environment.
We don't see any situation where there is any type of a meaningful deterioration in credit in the near-term horizon at all.
I would say the reserve increase itself is driven again by those 2 primary factors I noted before specifically just we're not refilling the recovery buckets.
So the net charge-offs will increase if you will as opposed to the gross charge-offs because you'll lose the benefit of some of those recoveries.
But I don't think that's a fundamental turning credit by any stretch of the imagination it's losing the benefit of those accounts we didn't sell at the peak of the recession.
And then I would say secondarily the other thing driving it is asset growth.
We have been the only folks driving significant asset growth in the card industry now for a period of years.
And ultimately the cumulative effect of that is you have to provide for that growth as those loans season.
Again I think that's a good thing.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then I've got a follow-up on inorganic asset growth.
Sallie Mae in their earnings call last week commented that they were looking at a private student loan portfolio.
Without commenting on any specific opportunities although feel free to if you'd like is that something that would interest you potentially adding private student loans that are out there to your portfolio? Yes.
I can't comment specifically.
I guess Mark what I would say is that we're always on the lookout for good opportunities for our investors.
And if we saw some of those type things we would clearly look seriously at them.
Our next question comes from Craig Maurer from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Speaking of good opportunities for investors I was curious your network for quite a while looking at the different assets it's -- Discover seems to be lagging the major peers we look at in terms of volume growth.
Diners is certainly lagging.
PULSE is hurting.
With it only contributing $28 million to the bottom line I mean what's the thought process regarding not monetizing that network through a sale and converting over to a major network like Visa or MasterCard where you double your acceptance and likely increase your sales? So I'm just -- I'm struggling with this.
Is it the opportunity that something like PayPal brings? Or what are we looking at? Because continually it seems like the -- in the near term or even in the medium term perspectives are kind of bleak for the network.
Well I wouldn't go quite that far Craig.
I'd say for a period of probably 5 years plus we were gaining share if you looked at what happened -- what PULSE's track record was in debit and the purchase of Diners Club.
But our profits have been growing quite significantly and it's really been only the last 2 quarters that you've seen us really take a hit on growing PULSE.
And we've talked about some of those issues before.
So I wouldn't want to take any decisions based on the business in a very short time period.
But you did mention PayPal.
But there's a number of other deals that we've signed with Ariba.
We're doing some interesting things with Facebook and Amazon.
So we're doing other networks around the world.
So we've been planting a lot of seeds for the future.
And as we have built out acceptance and extending our product line and partner set we are very optimistic in the long-term potential for this business.
So I guess that's -- that -- the short-term pressures on PULSE don't change that at all.
Our next question comes from Chris Brendler from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question is on the Diners Club network.
And could you just give us any more detail on what's going on in Europe and of the Diners Club franchise as a whole? Volume seems to be going the wrong way and the revenue impact seems even worse.
Is there any more you can tell us there? And how long do you expect this drag to continue? And then just a follow-up on the charge-offs and the reserve build.
I just want to ask is there a change in your forecast that happened with respect to recoveries on these older loans or is it just a pool? It seems like when you build reserves you're taking a forward-looking metric.
So I'm wondering is there a change in the behavior of some of these older loans or just the fact the portfolio of loans has shrunken us? On Diners there's a couple of factors.
The first is the most important factor for us when we purchased Diners was it allowed us to become a global network with global acceptance and to have -- to facilitate signing additional deals net to net to allow our card members to use their card globally versus just in North America as had been the case in the past.
And we're very pleased with how dramatically our acceptance has widened around the world.
In terms of Diners itself it's relatively immaterial to the overall company but it's taken a number of hits.
Obviously we mentioned exchange rates moved against us during the quarter which was a factor.
We have a number of franchises that are struggling.
I think that's particularly the case in Europe where there's a lot of institutions struggling with liquidity issues and so on.
But also Citi has continued to divest some of their franchises that they historically issued on and that's been a headwind.
But -- and meanwhile we've signed the largest issuers in China India and Russia in the last year and those kinds of deals take a while to kick in.
So we're facing some headwinds and we've got some what should become tailwinds over time not yet kicking in.
So we continue to manage that very well for both the short term minimize any losses but for the long term to get some of the benefits of truly having a global differentiated network that's fairly unique in the world.
In terms of the pool of recoveries let me try it a little bit different way.
I mean to some degree we've been growing far faster than the industry.
And so we've been having to essentially set aside loan loss reserves for growth over time.
That's continued.
We've also seen over time a gradual reduction in recoveries and that's continued this quarter.
What -- those 2 factors had been covered a year ago by the dramatic improvement in delinquencies and the charge-offs overall.
So they've been swamping those first 2 factors.
And remember it's really an improvement in charge-off outlook and delinquencies that causes a reserve release.
So even if you just flatline and stop improving or slow improving you don't have a large release that covers the 2 factors that we called out this quarter.
So I would think about the lack of improvement.
And when you get down to 2% charge-off in a credit card business it's hard to -- you're just not going to improve forever.
Our next question comes from Ken Bruce from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My question relates to the -- what has been a very impressive net interest margin for the last several quarters.
And I guess I'm trying to reconcile a couple of different statements that you made David specifically around Discover it and the pickup that that should have in terms of having growth without the use of teasers yet the promotional rates are still moving higher.
Can you just kind of reconcile in terms of what's driving the yields here within the credit card portfolio specifically and how you see those offsetting aspects of promotional balances and Discover it playing out over the next several quarters please? Yes Ken it's Mark.
What I would say is with respect to NIM specifically as it relates to those promotional balances I would say the Discover it card member is coming on with a much lower level of promotional balances.
What's keeping the overall level of promotional balances higher is portfolio BTs and portfolio promotional activity as opposed to the new card member acquisition on the it card side.
So the it card member continues to be significantly more engaged and continues to come on at very low CPA with much more active behavior and requiring much less promotional stimulation I would say than we've seen in the past.
So as I look at NIM more broadly going forward I would tell you as we look to the fourth quarter I see room where NIM could be up slightly from the level we're printing in the third quarter.
Beyond that I think I'll reserve judgment until our Investor Day where we'll give some broader commentary beyond the fourth quarter.
The one thing I would be remiss if I didn't do is to remind everybody that the model is built over the long haul to deliver an 8.5% to 9% margin.
We're clearly operating well north of that today see an ability to continue doing that for some period of time.
Research Division</strong> And just as a follow-up in terms of the cost of funds.
That's obviously been a big release valve for NIM as a general point.
Can you maybe discuss what your incremental funding options are and what those costs are so we can begin to factor that into our calculus please? Yes.
I would say the fundamental channels we're leaning into are obviously going to be the consumer deposit channel directly.
That one is always a winner for us because it comes with a customer attached to the other side and build synergy between the right and the left-hand side of our balance sheet.
And it also again comes with a customer you can cross-sell to.
The other big channels we're using obviously are the ABS channel as well as the banknote channel.
To a lesser degree we use the broker deposit channel as well really more around the edges at this point in time.
We've been shrinking in that book over time.
In terms of the potential impact and everything else I would point you back to the schedule from our Investor Day presentation that's out there on our website.
It's got the upcoming maturities as well as the rates associated with those maturities.
And I would assume no major gigantic shifts in mix over the near term.
And you can just use your market rates to plug into your models there.
Our next question comes from David Ho from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch base on the non-card growth and personal loans and maybe touch base on some of the early indications you're seeing on the home equity installment loan side what the dynamic will be with home prices increasing and personal income levels rising.
How do you view that kind of mix playing out maybe in the medium term? Well I think in terms of personal loans we've seen good opportunities to have quite strong growth.
It continues -- we continue to see consumers deleveraging and wanting to pay down debt consolidate loans and pay down debt over time.
And so that product has continued to be a very big winner for us.
I'm also pleased with the growth of student loans.
It's been more modest growth in part because we needed to replace the Citi brand.
But the fact that we've gotten the kind of originations we have while replacing that brand that a year ago represented half of the originations I feel very good about.
Home equity it's really way too early.
I think we'll probably have a lot more to talk about at Investor Day with that because we're just out for the last 2 months.
I think we feel very good about the timing because home equity the consumers have in their homes is now starting to grow both from pay-downs and real estate pricing recovery.
I think that consumers are going to in a rising rate environment are more likely if they need home equity to take out the home equity loan versus refinancing their whole first mortgage given that they may have already locked in a lower rate for their first mortgage.
And it fits very well.
So we've got -- I feel very good about the launch so far the pipeline and where we stand.
And maybe we'll have some more metrics for you by the time Investor Day comes along.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just 1 follow-up.
I just want to talk about the competition you're seeing in card.
You mentioned before that you're seeing a lot of competition in the rewards space.
Have you seen any acceleration in terms and condition or pricing over the last couple -- couple of months? No.
We've had very strong competition in cash rewards for several years now and I think we do see in any given quarter or year one competitor will tend to get stronger while another one is backing off and vice versa.
But I think -- if I think about -- as I think about overall the level of competition it's high it's been sustained and I expect it to continue to be sustained at this kind of level.
And that's one of the reasons we're so excited to launch Discover it is to be the best competitor out there and that we've certainly been pleased with our results.
Our next question comes from Bill Carcache from Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> You haven't added receivables to your trust in some time so it's hard for us to see how loss curves look for some of your more recent vintages but I was hoping you could maybe share with us what peak loss rates you're seeing I'd say the 2011 vintage which should be nearing peak levels now just so we can kind of get a sense of how the trajectory of your charge-off rates is shaping out.
Yes.
Bill I would say we haven't provided color on that in the past.
We'll take that under advisement as we look forward to our Investor Day coming up in the spring time.
What I would say is they are performing in line with our expectations.
We're not seeing any development -- any loss development that is deteriorated from the expectation we had at the time we originated those credits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you say '12 -- whether '12 is directionally trending better than '11? I guess I'm just trying to get a sense to -- just directionally.
I think what I would say to kind of get back to the question again we haven't provided color on that so I want to be careful on how and when we do that.
But I would say is that harkening back to our expectations for the credit environment it remains very benign.
The new vintages are performing absolutely in line or better than our expectations and the reserve actions this quarter don't have anything to do with any adverse development under any of those vintage curves.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair enough.
Lastly can you talk about the 5% cash back bonus program that you currently have in place for online shopping how that's going? And perhaps also talk about the change relative to last year which also included retail? Just trying to get a sense for what kind of impact the exclusion of retail could have and how we should be thinking about that.
Well I think we're pleased and so far meeting expectations.
I think that it is more typical for us to have one category versus multiple categories.
So I'd say probably a year ago was more the aberration and so we're comfortable that we can continue to stimulate our base with Internet.
Also I would just say that Internet has grown a lot even this year versus a year ago in terms of how much consumers are using it.
So that's probably a more important opportunity for consumers given the growth in the Internet space.
Our next question comes from Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One is just on spending growth.
You came in at 3.2% year-on-year in third quarter.
And that is a little bit different from some of the peers your spending growth came down from second quarter which was 4.4%.
So I'm just trying to understand what might have driven a deceleration in the growth rate and spending? Yes.
Well I'd say Betsy the -- if you day-adjust it it was about 4% which was pretty on top of our loan growth and that's been true for us over the last several quarters that our loan growth and our sales growth have been similar.
And haven't seen any particular trend.
And yes -- I mean obviously with the government shutdown and so on we have been looking for is there anything going on with consumers? And I really haven't seen anything.
When I look across competitors I'm seeing some up and some down from their run rate.
But as a general prospect we're seeing the same thing.
Competitors are not growing their loans but they're growing sales and they appear to be to a much larger degree than we are going after different transactors.
Research Division</strong> And then on the -- okay.
And the follow-up is just on the expense side on marketing you're down obviously 6% Q-on-Q.
I would -- is it fair to expect that you'll be ramping that up into the fourth quarter and looking to drive up the spending growth rates? Yes.
Betsy I think that's a -- probably that's a pretty fair assumption.
We definitely tend to take them up in the second half of the year and into the fourth quarter tends to be a big time on the marketing side.
What I would say is we've put out some revised guidance around total expenses last quarter at $3.2 million.
I would say I still feel good about that.
I don't see any reason that we won't be able to accommodate that level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if you're taking up marketing expenses in 1 place you might be lowering it elsewhere is that your point? For non-marketing expenses elsewhere yes correct.
Our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk Mark about whether the reserve rate -- the percentage of loans is likely to be increasing.
I understand that the things you talked about I guess as we go forward is that likely to be a higher percentage of loans as we go into the fourth quarter in 2014? Yes.
I would say at this point in time don't see it being a meaningfully higher percentage of loans as we head on in.
Again I would drive you back to the earlier comments that everything we're seeing in the portfolio right now is consistent with a benign credit environment and the factors affecting the reserve this quarter are really those more exogenous factors related to the fact that we're growing the receivables base well and we're getting seasoning under those curves and as well as the fact that we aren't generating enough new charge-offs to refill the bucket to be available for use in recoveries.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And as a follow-up David I'm sure that if you wanted to kind of spur additional volume from people that are transactors you could do it.
Could you just talk about the thought process I mean what are the benefits or the risks of actually trying to do that? Well what I'd say is that we follow a very disciplined process to not just chase volume growth but to deliver profitable customer relationships and that means that the best opportunity seems to be people that at least have some propensity to occasionally revolve because the primary revenue producer in the industry and for us continues to be the net interest margin whereas the interchange by the time we cover rewards and expenses is a much smaller piece.
We also are keeping very disciplined because I think transactors look particularly good to some people today because we're in such a low cost of funds environment and obviously in a different environment the cost to float is something that changes those dynamics a lot.
And so we will continue to evaluate it and make sure there aren't some additional incremental opportunities to go after people that are more transactor-based or have higher sales.
But if you look at our track record on growth on loans and return on loans we're best in class on both of those 2 factors and that's good because those are the 2 things we most try to optimize.
Our next question comes from Sameer Gokhale from Janney Capital.
Research Division</strong> I guess just one of the things I just want to flesh out and you did talk about it at length.
But just one thing I want to clarify in terms of that recovery rate I mean should we think of it as this quarter there was kind of a onetime true up to your recovery -- expected recovery rate and in going forward all else equal it's going to be more -- provisioning is going to be more a function of your loan growth? Is that the way to think about it that there was kind of a onetime issue element from a recovery standpoint this quarter as you trued up the reserve for a lower recovery am I thinking of that correctly? Yes.
I think what I would say Sameer is the situation obviously continues to evolve.
I prefer not to go into conversation of quarter-over-quarter changes in reserving estimates specifically at this point in time.
I think we don't know what we'll know as the quarter moves forward and we'll set our reserves based on the best information we have at the -- near the end of the quarter as opposed to trying and to guesstimate what that's going to be right now.
What I would say is that recovery rate expectation we have brought -- we've brought down meaningfully quite honestly from the level at which it's been operating.
And we continue to see good growth in the portfolio.
The best guidance I can give you I think is to take you back to the earlier comment that is that the credit environment remains benign that we would expect the underlying performance in the portfolio to reflect that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just another question was in your other expenses I know last quarter you had some expenses related to Diners.
But this quarter also I mean if you look at last quarter's numbers strip out the Diners charges you have maybe kind of close to $100 million-ish run rate in the other expenses this quarter I think about $118 million is there anything else flowing in maybe as residual expenses from the Diners charges or something else this quarter? Yes Sameer we've got some Diners charges like with the elevated payment services expenses that we called out flowing through there and a little bit more on the global acceptance side and I think then there's just some cats and dogs but that makes up the delta.
Remember we essentially purchased the Italian franchise for instance last quarter taking the onetime charge called out at that time that we would be then operating it.
So you've got the normal operating costs that were expected and an ongoing operating loss because we now own those.
Our next question comes from Scott Valentin from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just with regards to your protection and product revenue.
It was up slightly quarter-over-quarter and it's been trimming down for several quarters in a row.
Has it kind of reached the bottom and this should be kind of a base and then it grows from here? No.
I'd say we are continuing not to sell that product and so you would expect then attrition into gradually reduce that line until such time as we should start to sell those products again.
There will be fluctuations from one quarter to the next but I'd think the longer-term trend for now would be a gradual decline.
It has been slower than our expectations to your point.
The attrition is definitely been slower than we expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on personal loans.
The yield's up about 16 basis points from a year ago it's up almost 16 I guess -- sorry 6 basis points linked-quarter.
Just with the growth you had I guess you're getting -- the competition level in that product I would suspect that with a lot of growth you'd see maybe loan yields come down on a linked-quarter basis but that's not been the case? Yes.
I would say that that product continues to perform particularly well for us.
We're very very happy with the yields we're seeing there.
I would say without any significant credit expansion we're able to command some very good pricing in that marketplace.
Right now we feel very good about it.
Yes.
And we’re also seeing some payoffs as the older vintages mature which were at slightly lower rates and newer vintages have come on over the years at probably higher rates.
Our next question is from David Hochstim from Nomura Securities.
I don't think I changed...
David's from Buckingham right? Yes.
I'm still at Buckingham.
But I wonder could you talk a little bit about what we saw over the course of the quarter in terms of spending behavior and lending? You said that loans attract spending but loan balances declined in the month of September I think and they grew nicely in July and August and for the quarter overall but is there something -- did you see some changes in behavior during the quarter end and how about in October so far? I would say that I've seen a fair amount of stability both in sales and loan growth.
Obviously how a weekend falls or what promotions we have going on one year versus another can certainly have an impact on 1 month.
As I look at the day adjustments and everything I haven't seen any particular trend in either direction for either sales or loans.
Okay.
And so do we think that the decline in loan balances in the amount of September is kind of unusual and it's not reflective of some new trend with October be...
Well I would say that you're better off looking at the full quarter to take out that noise and I feel good that we're continuing to be towards the top end of our 2% to 5% targeted range in credit card loan growth.
And I think it's -- I believe that once again it was the best in the industry.
Okay.
So September is not consistent with that as a month but look at the quarter and think about Q4 obviously Q4 seasonally should be pretty good? Yes.
I mean by looking year-over-year we sort of take out the seasonality.
And -- but I would say we feel good about last quarter and we're continuing to work hard to stay towards the top end of that range.
Our next question is from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the credit questions.
Mark I take your point that the credit is likely to remain benign but is the normalization in the recovery rate outside the Master Trust happening at a faster pace? So is the actual recovery significantly lower in that part of the portfolio? No.
I would say that the Master Trust is a pretty decent representation.
In that sense Ryan I would say a couple of different things.
Remember we're not -- we're rearward looking on recovery rates.
When we're setting our reserves we're looking at what we expect those recovery rates to be over the ensuing 12-months period of time.
So we're looking at trending in that recovery rate and what we expect that trying to be going forward.
The other thing I'd really be cautious onto is if you're thinking about that last month in the trust you'll note there's a footnote there noting that had we not done the account removal that we did that recovery rate fell pretty significantly I think it was more like 107 bps as oppose to the 116 bps that got published by virtue of the math.
So recovery rates continue to decline.
I thing the trust is a reasonable -- not a perfect but a reasonable proxy for what we're seeing there.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one quick follow-up on the reward cost it seems like it came out a bit better than we would've expected again.
Given these quarters online shopping are you still targeting 1% reward cost for all of 2013? Yes I think somewhere in that neck of the woods is a pretty good estimate.
I think we'll probably come in a little below 1% on the full year would be my current observation place.
Our next question comes from Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Yes David I was curious what your appetite for acquisitions is currently? And in what areas if you have an appetite where you might focus? Well as Mark said we would always be open to great opportunities.
If you look at our track record we've been selective.
We've made acquisitions where they fit most strategically and financially.
We fit -- they obviously have to fit the Direct Banking or payments partner strategy.
But I'd say we focus most of our attention on organic growth than growing the businesses that we've currently have and have built and we would be cautious.
But we would certainly look at opportunities.
Our next question comes from Bob Napoli from William Blair.
Research Division</strong> David I was hoping you can give maybe some thoughts on your partnerships PayPal Ariba Facebook Amazon maybe I mean you haven't -- didn't give any update on PayPal.
Well just maybe some thoughts around the strategy and working with those companies in particular Amazon payments Facebook payments the Ariba business-to-business.
I'd love some thoughts on those partnerships and over what time period you expect them to start generating some real numbers for you? Well I'm pleased with the progress that we're making.
They -- as we've said in the past there's 2 things that are good.
One is we are a building portfolio of partnerships so we're not counting on any 1 and not all of them will work but we think we've got enough of our portfolio -- building enough of our portfolio that some of them will work and hopefully some of them will work really well.
I think that these -- we're talking about some very new areas.
We are coming at them from a very differentiated approach.
For instance no one I think has ever come at the Ariba opportunity the way we are.
And so these things will take time to get ready to launch.
Then once they launch we expect the volume to come first and the profits will be a ways out.
So I think that one way to think about it is that it's like having a whole number of options and those are the long-term options that we think some of them will pay off really large but I wouldn't think about them really as being that meaningful even through next year at least in terms of the profit side of the equation.
Research Division</strong> What is maybe just as a follow-up I mean what is unique about what you're doing with these partners and maybe using a Ariba as an example? Well it opens up -- Ariba is business-to-business so it opens up a whole new category that's not -- if you think about the size of the credit card industry it's all spend that's not even there.
It's not part of the industry as we know it today.
And so it's a way to leverage our existing network infrastructure acceptance capabilities in a totally new marketplace.
But with -- because it's leveraging our existing infrastructure it's a relatively low cost and is a better value and better service than companies paying other companies achieve today through other means.
And so what's I think -- each one of these new opportunities are differentiated.
They're not copying anyone else.
They don't exist today.
Some of them are really hard I mean we have to -- PayPal as an example turning on a new network for 8 million merchants is not easy and I don't think it could be done without our help but the payoff we believe will be very large over time.
Our next question comes from Chris Donat from Sandler O'Neill.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Buried within the CFPB's report that they put out earlier this month on the CARD act they mentioned that some issues and practices related to rewards and marketing promotions have become an area of concern.
I'm just curious if this is something that's come up in your conversations with regulators and how do you feel about where your positioned relative to peers on rewards and -- most specifically on rewards not too much on marketing.
Well I feel very good about our focus on consumers and disclosures.
We are looking at everything that we do and -- as our regulators and I would say that I'm pleased that most of the areas that came at -- that were addressed during that study are areas that we don't have involvement with like deferred interest cards or fee harvester cards we're not currently marketing fee products.
But obviously rewards was mentioned.
I think that you need to think about the fact that rewards are so prevalent they're now on most cards in the industry.
And so it's not surprising that that would be an area of focus.
One of the reasons I feel good about us is that cash is more straightforward than points or some other complicated programs.
They're easy to use and redeem.
We've particularly put in features to make them even easier to redeem and add value when they're redeemed and it's a great value to consumers overall.
We've got about $1 billion a year of cash rewards.
That's a huge value to consumers.
Our next question comes from James Friedman from SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I think Mark on Slide 7 you called out employee compensation increases and you talked about higher headcount.
I was just wondering where that headcount is going? And David I'll just get the 2 in upfront.
So with regard to network partners how should we be thinking about -- or phrased a different way how do you measure your success in network partner initiatives so we can kind of harmonize with how you grade yourself? Yes.
I would say -- I'll start off in response and let David take up.
If you're looking at the higher employee compensation expense I would say the headcount is really Jamie in support of our growth initiatives that we have across the company.
So that's going to be everything from the launch of the home equity product to the further build out of a number of other different initiatives there's also obviously some heads involved in the emerging payments partnerships the second part of your question as well.
So between our growth initiatives new product initiatives we have and then I would say there's obviously just like with everybody these days a little bit that's go into the regulatory climate and make sure that we are dotting Is and crossing Ts and doing everything that's expected of us as a responsible player in the industry.
So those would be the key drivers there.
And then in terms of network partners I would divide it into 3 areas.
I think first I measure what are the deals that we're signing and what's our track record for signing deals with some really strong partners compared to others and I feel particularly good about that.
I think in the medium-term which is not yet I would measure volume.
What kind of transactions and dollars are these deals as they get implemented producing? And then in the long-term I measure profitability that's ultimately what you're after and how much money do we make in these deals but that's a long-term.
The last question will come from Daniel Furtado from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just was curious if there we're any changes in the way you report delinquencies? And if not do you feel this quarter was the inflection point for the 30-day bucket? Yes.
I would say there's been no changes to the way we report delinquencies.
From the standpoint of an inflection point no I don't think anybody around here is prepared to say we think that's the inflection point.
We're obviously at uncharted territory.
We're not used to seeing car delinquencies in this level.
And as I've said before the models are built off a history and the predictive capability of those models is driven off of that historical set they have as well.
So I think it's going to be even more difficult to call a turn in this environment than it would normally be and we'd be very cautious about doing that.
I guess in response to really I think what's behind the question I'd point you again back to my thoughts that the credit environment is definitely very benign right now.
We could see improvement from here.
We could see deterioration from here.
But what I would say is that's going to be around a mean as opposed to some giant movements based on what we see right now.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you all for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Bill Franklin Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Alexandra.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us on this afternoon's call.
Let me start on Slide 2 of our earnings presentation which is on our website and we will be referencing during the call.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC today in an 8-K report and in our Form 10-K for the year ended November 30 2012 and in our Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 June 30 and September 30 2013 which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the fourth quarter 2013 earnings materials which are posted on our website and have been furnished to the SEC we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks by David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
Now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Bill and welcome to all of you who are joining the call with us today.
After the market closed we reported fourth quarter net income of $602 million or $1.23 per diluted share up 16% over the prior year driven primarily by loan growth and share repurchases.
During the quarter we generated a return on equity of 22% and returned nearly $450 million of capital to shareholders through repurchases and common dividends.
For 2013 we had 2 main priorities for the Direct Banking segment.
First we wanted to continue growing our card receivables while maintaining our leading credit performance.
Second we wanted to expand our non-card assets by growing personal and private student loans as well as to broaden our product offerings.
I'm very pleased with the progress we made on both of these priorities last year.
For the full year we successfully grew card sales and receivables by 4% as we continued our focus on the prime revolver segment.
This growth was driven both by increasing wallet share with existing customers and by acquiring more new accounts.
We drove new card account growth by nationally launching Discover it which is built upon our leadership in cash rewards and customer service and includes a number of new consumer benefits.
Recently we started offering Discover it card members free FICO scores on their monthly statements because of our commitment to helping people achieve personal and practical financial goals.
Discover is currently the only major credit card issuer to do something like this.
We grew non-card assets by continuing to leverage our expertise in unsecured underwriting and by maintaining a customer-centric focus.
In 2013 we originated roughly $2.5 billion in personal loans and over $1 billion in private student loans.
In 2011 and 2012 we had the benefit of originating private loans under 2 brands Discover and Citi as we had a 2-year agreement with Citi.
Our student loan originations in 2013 were all originated under the Discover brand and yet we originated even more private student loans than we did in 2011 or 2012.
During our first full year offering home loans we originated approximately $4 billion of mortgages despite the significant decrease in refinanced volumes in the second half of the year caused by rising interest rates.
We further broadened our direct bank product offerings by launching Cashback Checking which has the potential of representing an important funding source for us over the long term.
Additionally because of the housing recovery and rising first mortgage rates we felt that it was the right time to launch our home equity installment loan product which we did in the third quarter and fourth quarter of this year.
For our Payments business 2013 was a challenging year but we continue to plant seeds for future growth.
PULSE volumes were flat year-over-year and margins were stressed as we responded aggressively to an intensely competitive environment and expanded our focus to target volume historically run over signature debit networks.
At Diners Club while the European environment remains challenging we believe we have put the most significant challenges behind us from a financial point of view.
Additionally we saw the launch of some very exciting new franchises in China Russia and India.
In network partners we were notified in the quarter that we would be losing the third-party issuing deal in the middle of 2014.
However we remain excited about our growing portfolio of payments partnerships and our increasing global acceptance.
While these newer partnerships will take time to ramp up they position us well as the flexible payments partner.
Lastly one of our top corporate priorities was to drive shareholder value through effective capital management.
During the year we repurchased 5% of our shares and increased our dividend in April all-in deploying more than $1.5 billion of capital.
We also completed our inaugural CCAR filing and are looking forward to receiving the results in March.
Our fourth quarter provided a strong finish to a record year as our card business grew receivables by 4% versus the prior year despite tougher comps.
We achieved 11% growth in other consumer lending products broadening our Direct Banking product offerings and we drove outstanding credit performance across all asset classes.
That concludes my prepared remarks on our fourth quarter and full year performance.
I look forward to providing you with an update on our business strategy and priorities at our annual financial community briefing on February 27.
Now I'll turn the call over to our CFO Mark Graf.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
I'll start by going through the revenue detail on Slide 5 of the earnings presentation.
Net interest income increased $141 million or 10% over the prior year driven by loan growth and a higher net interest margin.
Total noninterest income decreased $28 million to $560 million primarily due to lower direct mortgage-related income as well as lower protection product revenue.
These items were partially offset by higher net discount and interchange revenue which increased by $38 million year-over-year due to a lower rewards rate and Discover card sales volume growth.
The rewards rate for the fourth quarter of 2013 was 11 basis points lower than the prior year.
You may remember that in the fourth quarter of 2012 we had 2 5% cashback categories as opposed to the most recent quarter's single category.
Payment Services revenue decreased 2% year-over-year mainly due to lower transaction processing revenue for PULSE.
Overall we grew total company revenues by 6% for the quarter.
Turning to Slide 6.
Total loan yield of 11.38% was 9 basis points higher than the prior year as interest yield for card private student and personal loans all increased.
The year-over-year increase in card yield reflects lower interest charge-offs and a higher portion of balances coming from revolving customers.
This higher total loan yield combined with the lower funding costs resulted in a 41-basis-point increase in net interest margin over the prior year to 9.81%.
Looking forward net interest margin is expected to remain elevated above our long-term target for some time to come.
Turning to Slide 7.
Operating expenses were up $35 million or 4% over the prior year.
The increase in employee compensation was primarily related to higher headcount to support growth and new product initiatives as well as compliance with increased regulatory requirements.
Information processing expenses were up $12 million or 16% largely due to a reclassification of expenses that were previously included in employee compensation and benefits.
Turning to provision for loan losses and credit on Slide 8.
Provision was lower by $16 million compared to the prior year due to lower charge-offs and smaller reserve build.
Our $50 million reserve build during the quarter mainly reflects 2 things: first a $28 million build driven by the accounting treatment for a portion of the purchased private student loans; and second overall loan growth.
Regarding the purchased student loans certain pools are performing better than our original expectations and a few are performing below our original expectations.
PCI accounting requires pools that are performing better than expected to be accounted for by increasing the yield on the underlying loans while a reserve addition is recognized for those pools performing below our initial expectations.
I'll point out that the full effect of the increase in yield for pools performing better than expected isn't reflected in the fourth quarter so student loan yield will tick up again this quarter.
The key takeaway here is that in aggregate the acquired student loans are performing slightly better than we expected at the time of purchase.
Continuing on to Slide 8.
Sequentially the credit card net charge-off rate increased by 4 basis points from a record low last quarter to 2.09% and the 30-day delinquency rate of 1.72% increased 5 basis points from the prior quarter.
Our credit outlook for cards continues to remain relatively benign.
The private student loan net charge-off rate excluding purchase loans increased 41 basis points from the prior year and 8 basis points sequentially due to more of the organically-originated portfolio entering repayment.
Student loan delinquencies excluding acquired loans increased 6 basis points sequentially to 1.66%.
Switching to personal loans.
The net charge-off rate remained relatively unchanged sequentially and the 30-day delinquency rate increased by 5 basis points to 70 basis points.
Turning to Slide 9.
In 2013 we repurchased $1.3 billion of our common shares paid almost $400 million in dividends to common shareholders and grew total loans by 5%.
Despite these actions the strong performance of our business resulted in us accreting more capital as our Tier 1 common ratio increased by 70 basis points over the prior year to 14.3%.
Sequentially the Tier 1 common ratio was down a bit due to seasonal loan growth.
We were in a very strong capital position as we enter our inaugural CCAR review and we continue to generate great returns that support the capital actions we submitted to the Fed earlier this month.
One item I would note is that this quarter's share repurchase activity will still be guided by last year's CapPR submission which has us repurchasing closer to $300 million for this quarter as opposed to our recent cadence of about $350 million.
While not related to capital one final call-out for the quarter is our lower effective tax rate.
This was driven by a favorable resolution of a state tax matter.
To sum up 2013 was a great year.
We grew top line revenue by 7% through loan growth and a higher net interest margin.
This combined with strong credit performance and focused expense management drove record net income.
Despite challenges in our Payments business we continue to successfully lay the groundwork to drive future volume and profits for the segment.
And finally we effectively deployed capital and repurchased over 5% of our net shares in 2013.
Looking forward we expect the credit environment will remain benign NIM will remain elevated and we will continue to remain disciplined with our expenses and investments for growth.
More to come on all this and more at our financial community briefing next month.
That concludes our formal remarks.
So now I'll turn the call back to our operator Alexandra to open up for Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Sameer Gokhale from Janney Montgomery Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> The first question was just on operating expenses.
I know you've given some year-over-year comparisons but I was just looking at the sequential increase in the other expense category other going to $133 million from $118 million last quarter? And I was just wondering what was responsible for that sequential increase in expenses.
So I think there was a little bit of a catch-up on depreciation of some technology investments and that made up a good portion of that $11 million increase year-over-year.
Very specifically Sameer what it was is we changed the way we're accounting for certain technology investments.
Previously we had been capitalizing web development expenses.
We are now going to be expensing those going forward and that's the first quarter you see that reflected.
Research Division</strong> So then run rate will be off of the Q4 number? I don't think Q4 is exactly going to be the run rate to build off of because that did include some catch-up as Bill alluded to.
But I think it's fairly close.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just the other thing on the NIM dynamics the net interest margin and you look at your funding costs it looks like you got sequentially again a significant benefit from a decline in your broker deposit costs.
And I know overall they've been trending lower but it seemed like the decline from Q3 to Q4 was a little bit bigger than you've seen in previous quarters.
So can you just help us walk through just the sequential decline in your broker deposit costs? And is there anything unusual going on there? No I don't think there's anything unusual going on there because we've actually done 2 different things Sameer.
Not only have we effectively brought down the rate we're paying on our deposit book across-the-board I would point out the direct-to-consumer deposits in addition to the broker deposits we've also been pushing out maturities as we've been doing that.
So I'll call it a both-end benefit.
We've brought down the effective rate we're paying as we've seen high-rate longer-dated maturities rolling off and we've been able to replace those with similar or longer-dated products at much lower rates in the current environment.
We're doing that in the CD book on the direct-to-consumer side.
We're also doing that in the broker deposit side.
We have Betsy Graseck from Morgan Stanley with a question.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One on while we're on broker deposits I'm just wondering what the decision was behind increasing year-on-year -- Q-on-Q? You had about a $1.8 billion increase in the broker deposits -- or I'm sorry a $2.3 billion in the broker deposits.
Yes I would say it's a couple of things Betsy but the primary driver there is our funding strategy overall is what we like to describe as a constrained optimization.
So we want to make sure we're accessing all of our channels all the time and tapping out none of our channels at any time to have a balanced profile from a risk perspective and a funding standpoint.
And subject to that overall constraint we target the lowest cost of funding at specific duration points at the curve.
And in the fourth quarter it was a very attractive source of longer-dated funding.
Research Division</strong> So do you see that as an opportunity to kind of pre-fund loan growth in 2014? Yes I think that was an attempt to not only pre-fund the growth but extend out the maturity on the book overall.
I think we also took down some 10-year banknote money in the fourth quarter that I would put in the same category.
We didn't have a need for at the time but it was really managing the complexion of the balance sheet as well as pre-funding loan growth earlier this year.
Research Division</strong> So we should expect to see all other things equal the securities portfolio kind of tail -- trend down as you grow loans into the next couple of quarters? Yes I would say generally speaking that's correct but we're obviously going to be looking at other maturities we have upcoming as well as other obligations and making sure we're carrying enough on-balance-sheet liquidity to meet our needs.
So as a general rule I think what you said is correct.
We have Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW online with a question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I also got a couple of questions.
I guess first could you Mark maybe help us think about the yield benefit from the student lending PCI accretion in the first quarter? Is it fair to assume that it's a comparable step function up in the yield as we saw in the fourth quarter? And then secondly David you mentioned a third -- a loss in the third-party issuing area.
Could you just talk about the materiality of that and kind of some more color on that? Yes.
With respect to the PCI loan yields Sanjay what I would say is essentially 100% of the increase you saw in student loan yield in the fourth quarter was driven by the movement in accretable yield on the pools that are performing better.
And that reflected that being in place for 1 month of the fourth quarter.
So you'll get it for the full 3 months in the first quarter and that should give you a pretty good idea how to a range it in I think.
And Sanjay your second question this is the third-party issuing deal that we've been calling out as a risk for the last couple of quarters but we actually received notice this quarter.
And in terms of materiality I'd say it's -- we expect it to have a meaningful impact on network partners' volumes and profits but immaterial to EPS overall.
We have Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on credit.
How should we think about the pace of loan loss reserve build in 2014? If you take out the PCI charges I think you built about 22 is that a good estimate for growth as well as seasoning of the portfolio? And just on the reserve do you think we're at the bottom in terms of the reserve level? How should we think about those 2 items? Yes.
I think in terms of the environment overall Ryan the right way to think about things is we are somewhere at or near the plateau in improvement right? I think what we've been saying for some time is we do expect this environment will continue for a while.
We don't see any kind of inflection point in the credit environment in the plan the 12-month-forward planning cycle we use to set our loss reserves.
So provisioning is really principally going to be driven from this point forward by growth in the loan portfolio.
And to a lesser degree I think a bit of a tapering effect continuing on recoveries of the Omni-age charge-offs kind of from the recession period of time.
So I guess what I would say is they won't be -- while I say they're relatively stable I wouldn't have an expectation they're exactly flat.
I think quarter-over-quarter economic factors and other inputs to the models are going to cause them to tick up a little bit or tick down a little bit as the case might be.
But think about it as in general terms somewhat flat.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I could just ask one follow-up unrelated.
If you look at your marketing expense it was basically flat in the back half of the year in 2012 versus 2013.
So given that I believe a lot of the marketing budget for 2013 was driven by the launch of the it card so given that how do we think about the trajectory of marketing expense from here? Could we actually see a decline given that a lot of the spend was put into the it card? Ryan I would expect you probably won't see a decline in the marketing expense.
As we said in a couple of forums recently we continue to see great returns on the investments we're making in the it card both in terms of not only the cost per account acquired being very low but the engagement we're seeing out of those it card members being very very strong.
In other words they're using the card sooner and more frequently than our traditional More card members have.
And I think you've heard me say before I grew up on a farm so I believe and David believes in making hay while the sun shines.
So while those great returns continue and those great opportunities are there we're going to keep investing into that.
We have Mark DeVries from Barclays online with a question.
Research Division</strong> First question Mark I was hoping you can give us a little more detail about what you mean by margin remaining elevated for some time to come.
Based on what you know and are seeing on kind of asset yield trends and your CD repricing opportunities is there a potential for a little bit more expansion in the NIM over the next couple of quarters before we see that eventually trend down? I would say the very quick answer to the last part of your question is yes.
There is opportunity for a little bit more improvement.
What I would say is I think we're going to provide a greater degree of insight to that at our financial community briefing next month.
So to keep the anticipation up I think I'm going to say more to come on that front come February.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then a separate question.
Sallie Mae took a $70 million charge this past quarter on expected compliance remediation efforts related to ongoing regulatory inquiries which we assume is tied to the CFPB's kind of ongoing review of student loan servicing.
Is that something we should potentially expect to see from you in the coming quarters? I don't really have any good visibility as to what their practices are or what the CFPB is -- may or may not be suggesting to them.
I would just say that we're obviously under continuous supervision by the CFPB and our student loan business and our other consumer businesses.
And so we will remain vigilant to make sure we're doing the right thing and -- but I couldn't comment on Sallie.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But has there been any kind of intensification of kind of the level of activity you're seeing in the interaction with them? As I say it's ongoing.
So there's not -- we have interaction with them and have had pretty continuous level of interaction with them since they were stood up and we would expect to continue to have that level of activity and scrutiny.
David Ho from Deutsche Bank is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on capital.
With CCAR around the quarter one of your competitors has been out warning of potential wide gap between its internal stress modeling scenarios and that of the Feds.
Can you talk about how you're tackling this potential risk and potentially narrowing the gap in kind of work you've done over the past year? Sure.
It's hard for me to comment quite honestly on what the Fed's model is going to produce until we actually have a chance to see what the Fed's model is going to produce.
So I think that part of the question I can say better directed at them.
I think if you look back at the actual results from last year I think last year there was a pretty meaningful disconnect between the submitted stress losses and the calculated stress losses that came back from the Fed.
So just extrapolating that forward I think there is probably a high degree of probability that that situation persists.
With respect to our CCAR filing on balance we filed what I would say we believe to be an appropriately aggressive ask a few weeks ago David.
And I think we've been pretty transparent with the market about where we kind of believe the orange cones are set with respect to payouts in this environment.
And we've also tried hard to keep front and center the fact that we are required to submit our request in terms of payout dollars and aren't allowed to submit a request for a payout ratio.
So we along with a number of our competitors who received approvals for some pretty high theoretical payout ratios last year didn't really approach those percentages due to the strong year we both -- or several of us turned in relative to what's forecast by some pretty locked down quantitative models.
So I guess what I would say is there's no way for me to handicap exactly what the Fed's models are going to say but we think we made an aggressive ask.
We understand our shareholders want us to increase the already high levels of capital distributions we've got.
And within the current environmental constraints we're working hard to achieve that goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And switching gears a little bit.
Obviously you're getting good growth in personal loans.
Can you talk a little bit about where in the credit spectrum you're seeing the most growth? And maybe the competitive landscape you obviously have very strong market share in the prime space.
Is that where you're seeing a lot of competition? And how about near prime? Well I would say it is very focused on the prime space.
In fact the FICO scores that we see in our originated personal loans are significantly higher than what we have even in the credit card space whereas you know we're a prime lender there as well.
There's a good amount of it that's cross-sell.
And so that is very helpful.
And I think in terms of competition I'm not -- I think that we have focused maybe more on this opportunity than others some others who were not in the prime space a number of years ago and got burned.
And so I think that is -- it means that we're one only a few that are really focused on this and especially when you look at the prime space.
Research Division</strong> Is there any risk of competition heating up anytime soon or is it mostly a vacuum at this point? There's always competition.
And I think if you look at our growth you can see that we're doing well in the face of the competition we're seeing.
So I think I'd kind of leave it at that other than we're continuing to evolve the product and to offer more options for customers more value for customers.
And so even as more people maybe sort of get back in the water I would think we could hold our own because we're continuing to improve the segmentation the marketing and the products itself.
Bill Carcache from Nomura is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> You've touched on this a little bit but I wanted to follow up on -- you guys -- on loan growth you guys are continuing to put up industry-leading credit card loan growth but it's decelerated a bit.
At this time last year the year-over-year growth rate was well above 5% but now it's gradually fallen to last December I think it was 3.9%.
I realize that you're comping against tougher numbers.
But could you talk a little bit more? Is it really just the segmentation that you talked about just now or are there other things that perhaps you would expect to kickstart that growth back towards the 5% range? Well as you have said the comps are getting a bit tougher and being at right at the top end of our 2% to 5% range wasn't necessarily something we thought we could hold forever.
But that being said we are absolutely looking at opportunities to stay as close to the top of that 2% to 5% range as we can.
And if we can find additional opportunities to accelerate the growth Mark talked about the marketing spend that's certainly one of the levers that we're going to continue to look at.
We're continuing to add features.
And I would note the new FICO score is unique and has been well-received so far.
And so we'll do everything we can to maintain our industry-leading loan growth in the prime credit space.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up on your outlook.
Can you give an update on your interest level in the general-purpose reloadable prepaid space? And then also perhaps discuss your outlook for transaction processing revenue growth from PULSE? I would say that most of our involvement with prepaid has been as a network to some of the leaders in prepaid.
It's still an evolving market.
You've seen some new people make big moves in it.
You've also seen people announce they're withdrawing from it.
And so I'd say we're being cautious.
And I think it's -- there's -- the thing that we are most interested in is doing sort of nonstandard things that are really maybe out of the box maybe with partners.
And if we can find the right opportunities we would maybe expand in the future.
But we don't have a big interest of just being 1 of 100 cards on the rack in the retailer right now.
We're more interested in doing things that are really going to help consumers.
Research Division</strong> And the transaction processing revenue growth outlook for PULSE? That's it.
I think what you're seeing is that we've somewhat stabilized a bit.
We're still facing some challenges both in -- on the PULSE volume and margins which we talked about numerous times before as well as continuing challenges in Europe in particular on Diners Club.
But we are working on additional opportunities to try to really get back to more of the level of growing profits and revenue more like we -- the numbers we've put on the board for 5 years before this recent difficult patch.
Craig Maurer from CLSA is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Regarding your spend growth on your proprietary cards it looked fairly anemic to the better players we look at in the segment.
So I'm wondering do you think this is a demographic issue? Or what would you attribute that to? Secondly you discussed you had trimmed the categories of 5% cashback year-on-year in half from 2 to 1.
Was there less opportunity to go after spending so you trimmed what you were willing to spend to go after that? I'm curious because again the spend growth on the proprietary cards looked weak.
What I would say is that our spend growth was still a little bit higher than retail spending.
So we're continuing to grow with merchants.
You are right that there are a number of competitors who are putting up much bigger numbers on sales volume.
One of the things we look at is sales volume with revolvers versus the highest transactors.
And one of the things that's happening in today's economy is that the big spending in transacting -- transactor volume is growing a lot.
And the prime revolver sales are not growing a lot.
But we're actually doing very well compared to our competitors in that segment that we're focused on.
And so corporate spending high T&amp;E high-end T&amp;E we just don't participate in some of those segments the way some of our competitors are.
We think that our model is more sustainable in the long run especially when the cost of funds returns to more normal levels.
And especially if there's ever any downward pressure on and interchange we think we're in a more sustainable place.
And rewards.
So I didn't exactly understand the rewards question.
Craig the second part of your question was around the rewards the amount of expense we had? For the fourth quarter...
Research Division</strong> Well it was the decision to trim the categories that have high cashback levels.
Oh I'm sorry.
I would think about the fourth quarter of last -- of 2012 as being the more unusual time.
I mean we normally would have one big promotion in each quarter.
That particular year we had 2.
That drove some incremental sales last year and we didn't repeat it this year.
So you've seen a nice benefit on the Cashback Bonus expense.
But as you'd expense[ph] especially looking at that high comp last year we didn't repeat the extra sales burst that we had a year ago.
Yes Craig what I would say is that going forward I would expect continued variability in the rewards line because quarter-over-quarter we're going to tackle different things to kind of drive the result we're looking for at that particular time and make sure we're getting the customer engagement we're looking for.
I think over the long haul kind of a 1% rewards rate is still the right way to think about what we're targeting.
But you're going to have some degree of variability around that number quarter-over-quarter.
Don Fandetti from Citigroup is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> David I was just curious if you wouldn't mind maybe talking about the industry in card loan growth in general what your general outlook is? I mean it seems like if you look at some of the data it might suggest a slight improvement in the trajectory but I'm not sure if you're seeing that or what you think the pluses and minuses are for industry growth.
Don I'm expecting a pickup in loan growth.
I have not very many data points that support it.
I mean if I look through our competitor results recently I didn't see really anyone besides us and American Express that grew loans.
And so I think that it's -- the industry as a whole is just kind of flat with a couple of us growing and more people shrinking.
I think that as we go through this year I still expect that loan growth for the industry ought to return to more like at least GDP growth.
And I think that if that happens then that would obviously be good for us because I would hope to participate in some of that faster industry growth because right now all of our growth is from taking share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean the industry is generally flat now.
So I guess GDP maybe 2% or 3% that's actually a decent little pickup.
That would be a decent pickup.
I don't -- I'm not -- our plans across the next few years don't have the industry returning to rapid industry growth.
I think there was a period of time when there was rapid growth product innovation balance transfer all kinds of innovations.
Big reset big deleveraging after the financial crisis 3 years of down in the industry 3 years of flat.
I think it probably returns to slow single-digit growth as an industry and what -- our strategy is to continue to grow faster than the industry.
Ken Bruce from Bank of America Merrill Lynch is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> My question really picks up where you left off with Don's question.
I guess as you look forward into this slow-growth environment you've commented that you expect to keep the marketing spend high in terms of driving your growth.
This is all about card acquisitions I suppose.
And certainly it's what you've been driving with Discover.
Can you give us some sense as to how you think you can continue to gain share and what the competitive backdrop is doing within the revolving credit space since that's really where you're going to take share? Well when I think Ken about growth I think about it in 3 ways.
One of those ways is putting on new accounts as you say and having strong products.
I'm very proud of Discover it.
I'm proud of our marketing our commercials our online digital presence.
And that's very important.
I would say that maybe an even bigger share of our growth will actually come from our existing base.
We still have -- we have a very loyal customer base.
We still have our customers who have a lot of spend and balances elsewhere.
And we've been making good inroads to gradually move them over with our better service and value but that's the best place to pick up growth.
And the third area is retention.
And as long as we can maintain lower charge-offs and lower attrition because we're keeping our customers happier we're not having as much of a leaky bucket as the rest of the industry has.
And so I would think about those 3 together and growing an extra 1% faster 2% faster 5% faster I mean obviously really adds up and will in conjunction with the new products that we've put on which are growing much faster than credit cards help offset the credit tailwind that will eventually become at least somewhat of a headwind at least from a -- especially from a provision and reserves perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- and just following on with that you've pointed out in a number of occasions that the Discover it product is slightly different than some of your prior products from the standpoint of how you would expect loan growth to come into the portfolio over time.
Is there any way to dimension that in terms of how much back-end loaded that might be in terms of the embedded growth that's actually coming into the portfolio through Discover it? I'm not prepared to address that in this call.
We'll think about what we might be able to share at our Investor Day on that Ken.
Brad Ball from Evercore is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the PCI private student loan pools that were underperforming Mark I wondered if you could talk about what was -- what drove that underperformance relative to your expectations.
And are you seeing any of that -- those factors impacting your non-PCI private loan book? The quick answer Brad is that the pools are stratified based on origination vintage.
And it is one pool in particular from one particular vintage year of originations that is underperforming the expectation there.
So it's not -- the underperformance issue doesn't bleed across shall we say to the other pools at all.
And with respect to whether or not we're seeing the same impact in our own organically-originated book the answer is no.
We're not seeing the same impact in our own originally -- organically-originated book.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So is the underperformance then related to the structure of the loans in that pool or whether they were co-signed? Or is there some other factor there? I think it relates to the origination criteria for lack of a better term that were utilized in that particular year of origination.
And I think it just relates to the fact that that particular year the market was a little bit more heated shall we say than it was in subsequent and prior years.
Remember that it's versus our expectations that were made at the time of the purchase as well.
Correct.
So if our expectations -- it may be different on an absolute basis even.
But if our expectations were off from actual that's what causes the accounting.
Yes.
So if you think about it there's -- if you look across the pools there are a couple that are performing better than expectations when we acquired them.
There are a couple that are performing worse one of which is really the driver here to be honest.
And there's several that are performing right in line with expectations.
So if you look at the portfolio in aggregate overall it's performing better than we expected at the time we acquired it.
Research Division</strong> So a onetime impact no reason to expect that there'll be future reserve adjustments related to that one pool? I wouldn't say it's onetime.
I would think about it the same way I would think about -- but it's -- you have to bifurcate it.
So it's a unidirectional kind of issue if that's a real word.
Basically if that pool's performance gets worse from here relative to our expectations you would see us post additional reserves against that pool.
If the pools that are performing better than our expectations get even better yet you'll look to see us post further accretable yield on those portfolios going forward.
So it's -- you have to bifurcate because the accounting for deterioration is reserves.
The accounting for improvement is yield accretion.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then if I may on the personal loan book you grew 27% this year I think over 20% last year.
What are the constraints on growth? Or are there any? Could you grow that even greater than you have? And are you seeing a distinct pickup in demand for debt consolidation loans in the current environment? Well I would say that we feel like we're growing it appropriately.
And at some point the growth rate will start to slow down just by the law of large numbers.
But I've been very pleased that we've maintained those kind of growth rates.
I think that if I look longer-term the personal loan market is a lot smaller than the home equity market.
And so if you think about what are the reasons strategic we entered the home equity market this year was; a we think the timing is right from an interest rate perspective and the fact that home equity is being rebuilt for a number of consumers; and secondly because we think there's good growth over time in a market that is much larger which is home equity being much larger than personal loans and certainly than student loans as well private student loans.
Research Division</strong> And do you see the home equity product playing a debt consolidation role in the future? Yes.
I think that it's a combination of home improvement as well as debt consolidation.
But to some degree it gives us a more continuous product line.
If someone is just doing a small consolidation maybe a balance transfer on the credit card is fine.
If someone's doing a moderate consolidation that's what our personal loans are for generally $15 000 $20 000 kind of range.
If someone has a larger amount they're consolidating or they're doing a major improvement that's where the $20 000 to $100 000 line secured by -- with -- as a secured loan and home equity kicks in.
David Hochstim from Buckingham Research is online with a question.
I wonder could you give us any update on what's happening with the Paypal and Ariba partnerships in Payment Services? Is there anything in revenues or expenses there this quarter that's meaningful? I'd say that they're continuing -- there's nothing unusual in terms of expenses this particular quarter on either of those.
Obviously we have a lot of work to do.
We've made really good progress on both especially PayPal.
We've signed a lot of acquirers and put up some merchants.
Ariba it's still in the development phase then we'll go on to the pilot phase.
So it's not going to be -- neither one of them have really -- have launched.
So we're continuing to make progress with our partners towards an ultimate launch.
Okay.
Maybe just related there's a $2 million provision for losses in Payment Services.
Is part of that Italy or anywhere we're familiar with? I'm sorry David you faded out there? In Payment Services this quarter you had another very tiny but reported provision for losses? Yes.
I'm wondering what that is? Yes that's related to the Diners Club line of business.
And it specifically as a provision related to a loan that we have outstanding to a European franchisee.
Okay.
And then could you just tell us what we should think about for a tax rate for 2014? Yes.
I would think about really our more normalized tax rate to be in the 37% to 38% range.
We'll give you some more guidance on that at Investor Day.
But for right now I think that's a pretty good way to range it.
Moshe Orenbuch from Crédit Suisse is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> David I was struck by your comment about cost per account being low.
And I'm sure that's going to be a significant competitive advantage.
I mean do you -- can you talk a little bit of what you ascribe that to? I mean is it the fact that everybody else is beating one another over the head to issue Visa cards or MasterCards? Or is it product design? Or I mean how do you think about that and how do you think about using that going forward? Well first I would say we don't have great visibility as to what our competitors' cost per account are.
And I think they vary all over the place.
They might ascribe incrementally low costs for a branch-originated account as an example.
And we obviously don't originate through bank branches.
When we think about cost per account I'm thinking more compared to our historical averages.
And ours are lower than they have been as -- because we've got a differentiated product with a large number of unique features in Discover it.
And I think we've also gotten better at marketing it as we've strengthened our brand strengthened our acceptance leveraged some of our major sponsorships.
And so I think that we need to continue to go to market as a differentiated brand.
We are Discover.
We're not just another Visa or MasterCard.
We've got unique features.
We keep adding to them.
And then we provide -- increasingly people know that we stand for great service as well as value.
The Internet and the move to digital I think is another thing that I would point you to because I think that we face a lot of rejection in direct mail.
And increasingly we're finding ways to leverage the Internet and to be the account-generation machine.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the discussion of the difference between the growth rate your growth rate in spending volume versus balances and compared to the industry.
One of the things we've talked about in the past is that obviously you could get there by increasing balance transfers.
The numbers that I would look at suggest that actually you're doing less balance transfer than in prior periods.
Is that a fair characterization? That is correct.
We are more -- and so it is a little difficult to parse through because what you don't see is the mix.
If we just backed off from balance transfer and that was the only change then you'd see maybe sales growing faster than receivables.
But as I say we kind of look at revolvers versus transactors.
And we are fundamentally giving up share purposefully in transactors and we're gaining shares on prime revolvers.
And that's why the numbers are -- sales and receivables for the year were both up by about 4%.
And that's pretty well matched up.
And Moshe if you look at the growth on the quarter about 2/3 of it comes from what I would call regular way[ph] spend and about 1/3 -- only about 1/3 of that is going to come out of any type of promotional activity of which BT is only a subset of that 1/3.
So the nature of the growth in the quarter from my perspective feels very very healthy.
And we have a healthy payment rate and it's -- but it's pretty stable.
If you look at most of our competitors their payment rates are continuing to rise.
So they're basically bringing money in and it's more being paid off at a faster and faster rate.
And we're not doing that.
Chris Donat from Sandler O'Neill is online with a question.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Mark just wanted to ask one more question on the private student loans and the timing of the recognition on the accretable yield.
Is that safe to assume we're talking a number that's a little north of $28 million that gets spread out over something like 5 to 10 years? It's going to be spread out over about 5 years or so.
In terms of timing in terms of the way to think about it and from the standpoint of more or less a specific number what I guide you back to is essentially 100% of the increase in yield in the fourth quarter was driven by that accretion.
And that represented only 1 month's worth of inclusion of that accretion.
So you can kind of calculate what a full month's worth of that would look like and extrapolate that over 5 years with a slightly declining balance due to payoffs and you'll get to your number.
L.P.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay all right.
That helps me on that.
And then just to ask a hypothetical with the news on PayPal.
There's nothing that as far as PayPal is separated from eBay that would trigger any changes in your current relationship and plans right that -- you're steady as you go with PayPal I imagine right? Well I think you'd be jumping to a conclusion that they're going to separate in the first place.
I mean certainly we're seeing a lot more well-run large companies with activists in the stocks.
And so I personally would be really surprised if we saw a change there.
Bob Napoli from William Blair is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> Just like to get some insight on your thoughts about the economy David where you -- your view on whether the economy in the U.S.
is getting a little bit better or stable from your view? I'd say the numbers I'm seeing at the moment suggest stability.
I think that we have the potential to accelerate and we need to get past this debt limit without self-inflicting wounds to ourselves.
And -- but if I look at a whole number of things the less fiscal constraint as we saw last year with tax increases and reduced spending that certainly reduced GDP growth.
That shouldn't occur nearly as much this year.
So that's helpful.
The unemployment rate continues to tick down.
We've seen some -- mostly better numbers coming out.
I don't think it's really translated into sales growth that's sustained.
And we went through 3 years of feeling better in the first quarter and then things deteriorated.
I'm hopeful that this year they'll actually maintain or even get better through the year.
So I'm hopeful but I don't really have -- we need a couple of data points of GDP growth and unemployment that keep going in the right direction before we can I think declare a strong upward trend.
Research Division</strong> Then on the growth side I mean you talked about hoping to get a little bit of a pickup in the card loan growth the personal loans still very strong growth.
Now the student loan market seems to have slowed a little bit.
Looking at your growth this quarter Sallie Mae's growth I mean I think there is good news in that maybe college prices are going up a little less than they have been in prior years but maybe there are less people going into colleges.
I'm just wondering what you felt like on the outlook for loan growth on the student loan side.
And then how quickly will the home equity loan become material to you? Is this a material product in '14 or are we looking a few more years down the road? Well I guess I would be hopeful that we could achieve a little bit higher loan growth this year than last on private student loans ourselves because last year we had the headwind of going from 2 brands to 1 which we overcame.
But this year we don't have that same headwind.
But we're not looking for anything quite dramatic.
As you mentioned tuition costs finally seemed to at least slowed down their increase.
And I think that is a good thing.
And -- but that impacts the size of the market.
In terms of the personal loans I think that I'm thinking about...
Research Division</strong> Home equity.
I'm sorry home equity.
In terms of home equity I think that this is our first year and I think just like when we entered student loans and personal loans our first year was pretty modest in terms of easing into a new business.
So I think we'll err on the side of being cautious year 1.
And then I think in subsequent years we would hope to accelerate it as we have more testing under our belts and understand in particular what marketing sales work better versus less well what is the best marketing pitch our operations are all -- are starting to scale up.
And so I would think modestly about this first year.
Research Division</strong> If I could sneak this in.
On the capital side you've grown capital this year even while aggressively buying back stock.
And I mean the Fed I mean through the CCAR it doesn't seem like they'll let you buy back more capital than what you generate in a current year.
Are there any thoughts on more maybe looking at acquisitions? I mean it's a great problem to have.
And where your stock is it's very accretive buying back that stock but what are your thoughts? I mean you don't want to continue to see the capital level build I'm sure.
Yes.
I would -- we've noticed that as well.
We're doing what we can to be good stewards of our shareholders' capital.
But I guess it's a nice problem to have that we're so profitable that we still built book value I think 15% this year despite buying back and having dividends of about $1.5 billion.
We will -- I think there's the potential because we submit the capital request on a dollar basis not a percentage basis and we really can't adjust easily.
We would be a lot closer to paying out our full earnings in a year if we didn't exceed our earnings by so much.
Now I don't know which one you'd rather have.
Probably exceeding earnings and accreting capital is probably the better problem to have but it does result in putting pressure on our ROE.
The fact that we got a 22% achieved a 22% ROE.
Even with the higher capital though I think you should feel good about this quarter.
Eric Wasserstrom from SunTrust Robinson is online with a question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
The first is I'd be interested to understand in your process of going through the CCAR exam for the first time what you thought the most meaningful differences were from your former CapPR experience? Sure.
I would say the cases we look at and the stresses we're required to run I would say are essentially the same.
The big difference between the CapPR and the CCAR is we have to ship a significant amount of raw data to the Fed measured as in hundreds of billions of dollars billions with a B hundreds of billions of fields of data actually gets shipped to them so that they can run their own models on us and come up with the independent perspective there.
So I would say the differences are really more in terms of in a CapPR process they come in and pressure-test your submission your models and your stresses.
In the CCAR process they do all of that but then they also come in on top and run their own models.
And I think our first year through it the most telling thing will come out in a couple of months when we get a sense for how their models view the loss rates that our data produced under a stress scenario.
So what I would say is hold that question to the next quarter's Q&amp;A and we'll be able to give you a pretty clear perspective on the deltas between how we're looking at our loss picks and how the Fed is.
The other thing that I would add is just the process itself is even more rigorous with more board involvement and more validation of models and so on.
And so not so much the bearing of the cases but the strength of the process which we have made major investments on and have dramatically enhanced this year versus last year.
Yes.
I think one of the things I've said in a couple of settings is that we've not been shy about spending money to make sure we're ready for the CCAR process this year.
It is our first year.
We were lucky we acknowledged that and for us not to bring in external resources who've helped others through this process in the past and have the benefit of those learnings I think would have been shortsighted.
And we've not been shy about making sure we've invested to be prepared.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if I could just sneak in a couple of follow-ups.
What should we think about in terms of your go-forward tax rate from here? I'd think about it as 37% to 38% range is the right approach.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other income that was up sequentially I was surprised at that given your continued decline in mortgage origination.
What accounted for that small sequential uptick? Are you referring to the $3 million in other other income? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes correct.
I think it was a bunch of cats and dogs.
It is cats and dogs.
I don't have the detail in front of me.
Yes it is cats and dogs is the answer to the question.
There's nothing specific to call out in there.
Daniel Furtado from Jefferies is online with a question.
Research Division</strong> I have one question and I don't know if you'll be able to answer it or not but how meaningful do you anticipate the rewards checking product to be for your funding base? And what type of impacts broadly speaking would you anticipate this product to have on your funding costs? Well Danny I would think about it as not being meaningful in the short term.
In the long term we certainly expect it to be meaningful.
I'm really excited about it because it is uniquely valuable to consumers having cashback bonus no fee no monthly fees and a very feature-rich product.
And so far we've only sold it through cross-sell this year.
We are on track for launching a broad market.
So the good news is it's a great product.
And the bad news is that it's a very sticky product.
And so we think it's going to take a long time to get people aware of the savings that they can have from this product as well as to wean them from what they're used to which is the bank down the street.
And so I think we have modest growth plans in the near term as we launch this because it is new and different.
Brian Foran from Autonomous is online with a question.
I guess [indiscernible] Brian your phone's breaking up.
Can you speak louder? I'm sorry about that.
At the Investor Day last year you had laid out the 6 strategic initiatives and you've touched on most of them.
I was wondering maybe just to clean up if you can remind us where the core banking system replacement or upgrade stands.
And then more broadly the it card clearly has been a big success.
The mortgage business notwithstanding the recent refi slowdown has been a success.
When you touched on home equity when you think about the other 4 you had laid out clearly there have been some headwinds.
And I wonder of those other 4 the deposit the checking the PayPal et cetera is it just a delay in the ultimate opportunity or is there anywhere where you've kind of downgraded your internal thinking on what the opportunity actually is? Sure.
Well I don't want to go through all those because we'll have to cancel our Investor Day because as you know we always do a report card on how we did and then talk about our priorities for the coming year.
But I'd say generally the ones that we had hoped to launch but didn't are all delayed as opposed to -- I don't think any of them have sort of been canceled.
And so you started off by asking about the core banking system.
We had originally hoped to get that live at the end of last year.
And that's moved into this year but we are on track for putting it in.
But obviously it's more important a lot more important to put a system in right with low risk as opposed to getting it in fast.
And I think that's true with some of the other priorities.
And many of them we nailed during the year and some others have slipped from '13 into '14.
And then just circling back to the acquisitions question.
I mean clearly you guys have always been very low risk very conservative and thoughtful over time doing acquisitions.
But I wonder specifically on the topic of portfolio acquisitions if there's anything floating around out there that is worth looking at and interesting to you at this point? You mentioned portfolio acquisitions and that's not really -- I think if you look at what we've done it's been more business acquisitions if you think about student loans or mortgages or even PULSE and Diners Club over the years.
And we continue to look at potential acquisitions but I just wouldn't count on anything because as you say we're cautious.
It is a lot more difficult making acquisitions with the sort of regulatory environment.
And we want to make sure that we don't buy something that then has problems or what have you.
So we're -- maybe in this current environment we're even more cautious than we normally are.
But that being said if it's the right fit the right financials and unique for us we would love to put some of our capital to work.
We have no further questions at this time.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you all.
Thank you.
Welcome to the Discover Financial Services’ First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Bill Franklin Investor Relations.
Mr.
Franklin you may begin.
Thank you Ellen.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us on this afternoon’s call.
Let me start on Slide 2 of our earnings presentation which is on our website and we will be referring to during the call.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company’s future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today’s earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC today in an 8-K report and in our 10-K which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the first quarter 2014 earnings materials which are posted on our website and have been furnished to the SEC we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company’s non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today’s discussion.
Our call this morning will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for question-and-answer session.
Now it’s my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Bill.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Since I recently presented Discover’s strategic priorities and key initiatives at our annual financial community meeting I’ll keep my prepared remarks brief on today’s call.
During the first quarter of this year the actions and results that we drove help take us a step closer to achieving the priorities that I discussed at the event.
Specifically we grew card receivables by nearly 5% which is at the upper end of our targeted range.
We achieved this level of growth through wallet share gains with existing customers and the continued success of Discover it where we drove a double-digit increase in new accounts.
We’ve added innovative features like free FICO Scores on card member statements and continue to enhance our online application to drive new accounts.
Card sales volumes growth in the quarter was 3%.
It’s important to keep in mind that the majority of sales growth in the industry at the moment is coming from high spend transactors while profitability in the industry for the most part is still driven by receivables not sales.
Our card business is focused on prime revolver sales and we’ve been taking share in this segment.
Furthermore we are not sacrificing quality to achieve growth as credit in our card business continues to remain exceptionally strong.
Next we continue to leverage our brand our customer base and our risk management skills to profitably grow and expand our newer direct banking products.
Private student loans excluding purchased loans grew by 26% during the quarter.
And personal loans grew by 27%.
In these businesses we are not only driving solid growth but we’re also achieving great returns on equity.
In addition we are piloting our student loan consolidation product which we expect to further rollout later this year and we’re making good progress towards implementing the core banking system which will better position us to more broadly launch our direct checking product later this year.
In payments we continue to increase global acceptance enhance security and look for ways to partner to increase volume while navigating through some clear challenges in the segment.
Despite these challenges in the payment segment the first quarter overall was a great start to 2014.
Our core lending business drove 6% receivables growth and 4% revenue growth.
We generated $631 million in net income or $1.31 per diluted share with the return on equity of 23%.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Mark and he’ll walk through the detail of our first question results.
Thank you David and good afternoon everyone.
I’ll start by going through the revenue detail.
It’s on Slide 5 of our earnings presentation.
Net interest income increased $153 million or 11% over the prior year due to continued loan growth and a higher net interest margin.
Total non-interest income decreased $67 million to $515 million primarily due to lower direct mortgage-related income and an increase in our rewards expense.
Our rewards rate for the quarter was 103 basis points.
Of this total roughly 7 basis points or approximately $18 million was related to updating our assumptions to reflect lower reward forfeitures going forward.
Excluding this one-time adjustment our rewards rate for the quarter would have been 96 basis points.
The decrease in forfeitures is driven by good credit performance and our efforts to increase either redemption like we’ve done with Amazon to drive customer engagements.
In terms of the more business as usual elements of the program we modestly increased both the standard and promotional rewards over the prior quarter.
Payment services revenue decreased 9% year-over-year mainly due to lower transaction processing margins at PULSE which will have somewhat easier comps next quarter as pricing changes were implemented during the first half of last year.
Overall we grew total company revenues by 4% in the quarter.
Turning to Slide 6.
Total loan yield of 11.44% was 22 basis points higher than the prior year as interest yield for card private student and personal loans all increased.
The year-over-year increase in card yield reflects a higher portion of balances coming from revolving customers as well as lower interest charge-offs.
Higher total loan yield combined with the lower funding costs resulted in a 48 basis point increase in net interest margin over the prior year to 9.87%.
Looking forward we continue to expect net interest margin to remain elevated above our long-term target for sometime to come.
Turning to Slide 7.
Operating expenses were up $31 million or 4% over the prior year.
The increase in employee compensation was primarily related to higher headcount to support growth and new product initiatives as well as compliance with increased regulatory requirements.
Information processing expenses were up $6 million or 8 % largely due to a reclassification of expenses that were previously included in employee compensation and benefits in the second quarter of last year.
Other expense was up $9 million or 10% due to the inclusion of a legal reserve release in the first quarter of last year.
Payment services expense increased by $9 million or 23% due to ongoing Diners Club cost in Europe.
For the quarter our total company efficiency ratio was 37.7% roughly in line with our long-term 38% target.
Turning to provision for loan losses and credit on Slide 8.
Provision for loan losses was higher by $113 million compared to the prior year due to a smaller reserve release.
Our $57 million reserve release for the quarter mainly reflects an improvement in both our contractual and bankruptcy loss assumptions for the card product.
The credit environment for cards continues to remain extremely benign.
Sequentially the credit card net charge-off rate increased by 23 basis points to 2.32%.
However it decreased by 4 basis points over the prior year.
30-plus day delinquency rate of 1.72% remained at the same level as the prior quarter.
The private student loan net charge-off rate excluding our purchased loans increased 49 basis points from the prior year due to a larger portion of the portfolio entering repayments.
Student loan delinquencies excluding acquired loans increased 31 basis points to 1.79%.
Overall student loan portfolio continues to seize and generally in line with our expectations.
Switching to personal loans the net charge-off rate was up 7 basis points sequentially and the over 30-day delinquency rate was down 2 basis points to 68 basis points.
The year-over-year decrease in the personal loan charge-off rate was primarily driven by loan growth.
Next I’ll touch on our capital position on Slide 9.
Our Tier 1 common ratio increased sequentially by 60 basis points to 14.9%.
This despite the flowing $400 million of capital through buybacks and dividends.
As was previously announced on March 26 we received a non-objection from the Federal Reserve on our proposed capital action during the four quarters that will end of March 31 of next year.
We were pleased with the outcomes in how we lined up versus other banks in terms of our capital ratios in the stress scenarios.
Additionally our board authorized a two-year $3.2 billion share repurchase program and last week increased our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.20 to $0.24 per share.
Now that we’ve completed our inaugural CCAR stress test we’re updating our Basel III Tier 1 common target to approximately 11%.
Our prior Tier 1 common target was largely grounded in our economic capital framework.
The new target is based on an analysis of our CCAR stress test result which similar to other large banks has become our binding constraint.
Just to remind you this is largely an academic exercise at this point as we’re well above our revised target and the current CCAR framework Discover just payouts greater than 100% of earnings.
In summary this was a solid start to the year.
We once again drove better than industry receivables growth.
Net interest margin and credit remained strong.
And we increased our planned capital deployment.
That concludes our formal remarks.
So now I’ll turn the call back to our operator Ellen to open things up for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) We ask that you please limit yourself to one initial and one follow-up question.
The first question is from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi Mark good evening.
Hi Ryan.
So just on the decision to change the Tier 1 common target to 11%.
Can you just give us some context towards how you came up with the decision? This is obviously just your first year going through the CCAR and I would have thought just given the experience that a lot of others have had that they taken a multiyear process before making a final decision in terms of the Tier 1 common target.
So should we think about this as a potential to be a moving target over time or you think this is something that will be more static and you’ll continue to run within the longer term? No I think Ryan it’s a great question.
I think it’s definitely going to be a moving target over time not something I would see as static.
I think we had historically had prior guidance out there that was based on our economic capital framework that we withdrew after last year’s CCAR results when we saw how other card players had performed and we just said it looks to us like maybe in the current environment the number might be a little bit higher.
And we need to wait and see because the new binding constraint will be the stress test results themselves.
And I think the 11% number we’re putting out to you today is really meant to be reflective of just that.
The current environment and where things stand right now.
I think it’s intended to be dynamic.
It should be dynamic.
It should be driven by the mix of business the business climate the environment lots of different things.
So I would not assume it’s a static 11%.
Got it.
And then given that you’re still sitting here with over roughly 400 basis points of excess capital above and beyond that level and given the fact that it appears that the payout ratio will be south of 100% this time it looks like you’re going to probably continue to accrete capital from here.
So just given that framework is there any chatters overall across the industry potentially with the regulators about the ability to increase your capital of returns above 100%.
And if so – if you were able to do so what would be the method of preference would it be for incremental buyback or would you potentially think about something such as special dividend? I’ll refer to the regulars the fed in terms of what they’re thinking about in terms of the payout ratios over the long haul.
I mean there is always speculation in industry from time to time.
And I hear some of that on my peers.
I am sure you’re hearing a lot of around the horn too but I’ll defer to them over as to what their thought process is.
I think the CCAR process itself is designed to be a horizontal review.
And at such point in time as the regulator is being capital to be rebuild in the industry it would be our clear hope that the process could change somewhat in that regard but at this point in time the rules that we understand them still are kind of what we’ve laid out there and that is that payout is greater than 100% are really discouraged in the current framework.
And I might squeeze in one last one just on the updated forfeiture costs.
Is this something that we should think of as being one-time in nature i.e.
the 7 basis points is one-time.
And how do we think about in the context of 1% targeted reward rate that you’ve talked about in the full year? Yes great question.
I would say the forfeiture rates re-impairment test or we cast that forfeiture assumption is a better way to describe it every six months Ryan.
And what we’ve seen is in particular some of the popularity the Pay with Cashback Bonus at Amazon and a few other features like that have driven a much higher propensity to utilize the cash back rewards.
So we’re not seeing as much forfeiture.
In addition to that the really high quality credit environment right now is meaning folks aren’t forfeiting their cash back balances due to delinquency.
So when we looked at that there was basically a catch-up adjustment we made to reflect those things.
So I would say yes.
I view them as one-time in nature.
Now again six months out we’ll look at them again but I don’t – a crystal ball doesn’t say some other giant adjustment six months from now as we sit here today.
What I would say is that in terms of the 100% full year total rewards Ryan I would say yes that still feels like about the right general ZIP code for where we’re standing maybe two or three basis points above or below that number somewhere in that generally is good.
It’s the way I think about the full year.
So yes I’ll stand behind that one.
Thanks for taking my questions.
You bet.
The next question is from Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks.
First question is just a follow-up on Ryan’s first question.
Mark is the – I believe it was the 9.5% economic capital you have.
Is that still longer term where you would hope that the standard will converge on when instead sorts of get a little bit less conservative as far as what they want relative to what they’ve kind of the theoretical goal posts are? Yes the 9.5% we withdrew about a year ago.
And yes that was based on the economic capital that’s correct.
I would say look based on an analysis of our economic capital position it still strikes us that that would be reasonable place to operate the company over the long haul.
I would say that process is obviously at this point in time includes the federal reserve in the process.
And they have a process that has imposed the binding constraint we have got today.
And I want to be respectful of their role the tough job they’ve got to play in rebuilding capital in the system post the crisis and everything else.
So I think it’s a tough job and the horizontal review process is not easy for them.
They’ve got to do it under Dodd-Frank.
It’s not an option.
So again our hope would be overtime as capitals rebuild the process will liberalize a little bit.
I think it’s here to stay but we’re hopeful we’ll be able to liberalize.
And that 9.5% economic capital numbers still doesn’t feel entire wrong to us.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then on a separate note my sense was from the Investor Day that you’re still giving really good response to the offers you’re spending on the Discovery card.
I think you also alluded to a benefit to the yield from some of the higher propensity to revolve.
If you get a continued increase in that propensity to revolve along with strong response rates could we see card loan growth in excess of the kind of 5% high end of your targeted range? Well as I mentioned Mark we have achieved double-digit new account growth in the first quarter of this year compared to a year ago.
So we’re continuing to see good responses.
And I would say that the pickup that we saw in year-over-year growth from around 3% to between 4% and 5% I think already reflects that success.
And so we are very focused on trying to put in additional things that will help keep us near the high-end of that 2% to 5% range.
And I am just really pleased that we achieved that high-end this quarter.
Okay great.
Thanks for your comments.
The next question is from Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Mark I was hoping that you could talk about the dynamics that we’re currently seeing in consensus expectations which have your provision expense increasing 58% between 2013 and 2015 where your loan is only growing by 9% over that timeframe.
Is it reasonable for growth in your provision line to outpace your loan growth by that much particularly given that the reserve building that you’ve been doing has been growth-driven and in this quarter you actually had another release? As we look ahead how should we be thinking about the pace of reserve building in relation to your loan growth? Yes I would say there is lot in that one Bill.
I’ll try and hit it all.
If I don’t feel free to come back at me on some pieces if I miss it.
I guess what I would say as with respect to how consensus were looking at I’ll defer on that one because that’s obviously how you guys were looking at it.
So you probably have a better sense on that one than I do.
I guess what I would say is that the crystal ball right now gives us pretty good visibility into the 12-month forward loss emergence period.
In that window we do not see any type of deterioration in the consumer credit markets in which we play at this point in time.
The environment continues to be very benign.
We’d expect provisioning to be largely a function of growth going forward to the extent that there is adds to the provisions to the extent there is releases we’d expect them to be from continued surprises to the good.
This most recent quarter both our contractual and our bankruptcy loss assessments in our modeling improved.
And I think that affected both not only the number of accounts but also the average balances.
So I mean it’s pretty broad-based improvement we saw across the board.
So relative to the $1.6 billion in allowance or so that we’ve got on the books a modest relief a modest bill as I kind of view it as variability around a flat reserve more or less over the course of the last quarter or two but I don’t see anything over the course of the next 12 months beyond growth in loans that would be a sizable driver of provision expense.
So to the extent that maybe you had a little bit lower recoveries that could be something that contributes to the provisioning maybe exceeding loan growth a bit but by and large provision growth should roughly be similar to loan growth.
Is that reasonable to expect at least for the next year? Yes I mean I think I got to be little careful with that one because obviously the provision growth can be driven by one our model shell.
And those models get updated every quarter.
But I would say as a general process I think the framework we’re thinking about and you’re expressing is not a bad one.
Okay great.
And then separately there is a follow-up.
There has been some commentary during this quarter’s earnings calls suggesting that there are issuers out there who are willing to raise rewards to levels that are basically wiping out any interchange revenues that they generate.
I wondered if you could comment on the extent to which you’re seeing any competitive pressure from these types of aggressive reward campaigns.
And maybe more broadly if you guys could talk about how sustainable these elevated rewards are that we’re seeing today across the industry particularly some of the relatively high cash back rewards offers that are out there? Well I think that there is – we’ve seen over many years where letters with come in with high rewards and then we’ll pair them back.
So I don’t know that that’s very different.
And I think you kind of see people coming and rotate in and out.
So I don’t – I wouldn’t characterize now it’s having an unusual number of people coming in with our rewards costs.
I think some people are getting more aggressing and some people are backing off because they are running the numbers from last year’s programs.
I think if you look at what we’re doing apart from the sort of one-time adjustment we still were just under 100 basis points.
We’ve been around a 100 points for a while.
That was sufficient to drive industry leading growth.
In receivables and growth in revenue actually an expansion in net interest margin.
So we are very focused on growing total profitability and profitable loans not just short-term drilling rewards expenses out.
It’s very helpful.
And if I may just a last one very quickly.
What kind of ROE does your 11% common equity Tier 1 target represent? And then that’s it.
Thank you.
Yes I’d say we haven’t specifically translated that one publicly before but certainly well north of that 15% number that is sort of our threshold level we put out there on our guidance previously.
Thanks.
Yes.
The next question is from David Ho with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good evening guys.
Hi David.
I was looking at your expenses it seem pretty clean this quarter outside some seasonal prime marketing and maybe a little bit of Diners cost.
If I annualize that run rate I would still get maybe three-ones.
If I had a little bit of marketing still relatively large delta versus your $3.3 billion end of your target.
I know you’re building in some compliance regulatory costs and maybe some technology investments.
How much are those in the run rate and then kind of what’s the timing on that throughout the course of the year? Yes I would say it’s going to ebb and flow David a little bit quarter-over-quarter.
I think I’d probably point you back to the Investor Day commentary where I kind of said $3.3 million sort of felt like the right number for full year expenses.
I would say – and based on everything I know right now I wouldn’t revise that guidance.
If you were in Investor Day today I’ve still pretty much think that’s held pretty good.
I think we feel pretty strongly that the last two quarters we’ve slipped to flat to positive operating leverage with revenue growth in line with or exceeding our expense growth which feels very good to us.
We’ve remained committed to consistently delivering positive operating leverage and that’s the direction we’re headed.
Okay.
So another one on loan growth.
It seems like some competitors are increasing credit lines or adjusting those for some of their customers.
Is that something you guys have relatively been stable in your credit line you would have increases but that’s something that you get use as a lever for loan growth going forward? I think we’ve been pretty consistent on that.
Right after the crisis we curtailed a lot of line increases but at this point we restore things and we’re a couple of years into a fairly stable situation of raising lines when appropriate.
Okay that’s helpful.
And one more on the CCAR results for the loss rates.
It seems like 15% obviously the high end of the industry but versus your internal projections was there a large delta there and can you comment on the different [ph].
So I think David you can see our – we published our forecast for the losses and the supervisory stress scenario on I think it was March 26.
So you can see the differences there.
We can’t explain the differences between the two because there is not really that much insight that’s given to how the fed comes up with their loss estimates.
Okay thanks for taking the questions.
Thank you.
The next question is from Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Thank you.
I guess I got one on capital and one on the network business.
Just assuming the bulk of the excess capital is trapped how aggressively are you looking for alternative uses? And I guess secondly on the network business I guess intra-quarter we found out who the third-party issuing client was that left.
Could you just talk about the prospects for that third-party business and broadly the – I am sorry the third-party issuing business and maybe the third-party segment broadly as well? Thank you.
Yes I’ll tackle how aggressively part and then I’ll pass it to David to talk about the network piece.
I would say Sanjay we are always actively looking for ways for capital to work to the benefit of our shareholders.
So you should I think see if we assume we are always scanning a horizon for ways to do just that.
I think organically we’re already outgrowing our key competitors out there in all of our core product lines and it feels like we’re doing very good job of that.
I’d say when it comes to the inorganic opportunities in that front too we’re also always very actively scanning and looking for the right opportunities balancing that against wanting to make sure that the capital doesn’t burn a hole on our pocket so to speak.
And I think the phrase I’ve used before is if a deal doesn’t make sense we won’t try to make it to make sense.
And I think there is things shown around on the streets from time to time but there is disconnect between value in buyers mind from sellers minds.
And I am not going to do something that doesn’t make sense for my shareholders just to do it.
So but rest assured we clearly understand we have more capital sitting around than our shareholders would like us to.
We remain committed to our prioritization which would be organic redeployment returning it and inorganic redeployment in that order.
And we are going to stay diligently focused on that.
And Sanjay obviously they want to bring that – represented the lion’s shares and network partners volume of profits but was an immaterial benefit before our currently paid EPS overall.
But frankly we had to look at the renewal and the renewal structure simply didn’t meet our profit hurdles.
So it would have gone from positive to a negative.
And so that obviously didn’t make sense for our shareholders.
If you look at where we’ve been focused in the last couple of years it’s actually been not on deals like that but on non-traditional deals.
So I point you to the various network-to-network deals.
The various deals like the Ariba PayPal and others with some other emerging partners and as well as continuing the focus on debit where we’ve got a strong market position in terms of market share.
And so we’re pretty pleased with the deals there but it takes a while for volumes to profits of new deals to take the place.
That’s something that’s much more maturity of going to going away later this year.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> And one follow-up if I may to Mark’s comments.
Just in terms of places where you’re looking at where the prices might not make sense.
I mean could you just talk about what those areas are? That would be helpful.
Thank you.
Sure.
I guess Sanjay the way I think about it as you were talking the balance sheet business you’re looking at assets that are consumer-oriented assets in nature assets that are actuarially I would say for lack of a better term underwritten and managed as opposed to big lumpy exposures.
So I wouldn’t expect to see us run out and start doing C&amp;I lending or commercial real estate lending next quarter.
I think I would stick to more granular consumer or consumer-like type portfolios would be the way I think about that.
And obviously I think my earlier comment I think our crystal ball shows an ability for us to keep driving great ROEs right now as we look forward.
And rushing out and trying to make one of those work when it’s not the right strategic fit and/or the pricing isn’t right in this environment.
I think we want to be responsible stewards of our shareholders capital and we’re going to do the right things.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Great.
Thank you.
You bet.
The next question is from Don Fandetti with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Yes David.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about spend during the quarter and into April and then also briefly on the CFPB if there is anything going on there or is it fairly stable? Well on spend volume we have seen some pick up in the last several weeks.
And I think we’re going to have to see some more data points to see if that’s sustained or not but at least maybe as the weather finally gets a little bit better that is potentially helping.
In terms of CFPB there is really nothing new.
I mean there is always reviews there is the one – we’ve continued to maintain a good working relationship.
The one matter that we disclosed that we’re still working already through.
We don’t really know exactly where that will come out but we look forward to resolving that as soon as we can.
We’ll let you know as soon as there is more that we can say.
Thanks.
The next question is from Brad Ball with EverCore.
Please go ahead.
Hi yes Mark really two questions on the margin.
One sort of over the nearer term.
Is there room for further funding cost benefits as you continue to drive more direct consumer in affinity deposits.
And drives the margin even higher.
And then secondly longer term what is it that keeps you locked on your long-term margin guidance which I think is 8.5% to 9%.
What gets us back down to that level? Is it higher funding costs or is it competition depleting asset yields.
How do you foresee? I know you can’t really give us timing but how do you foresee getting to that lower level? I appreciate your addition of the timing point there.
I appreciate that very nice but I am happy to tackle it.
I guess I would say in the near-term Brad what we’re doing is two different things.
We’re capturing and taking advantage of refinancing albeit lesser volumes but still not immaterial volumes of fundings.
They were put on place several years back.
Refinancing those at current lower rate in today’s environment.
What we’re also doing now is we’ve begun to really extend out the duration and the maturities of that funding.
So for example we did about $400 million with a 12-year bank notes in March at a very attractive fixed coupon.
So some of what we’re doing will actually benefit margins.
So what we’re doing will actually modestly take away from that benefit to margin.
On balance in the near-term is there is some potential modest upside in the margin? Yes there is some potential modest upside in the margin yes in the near-term I would say.
But we’re not letting – it would be greater for a lack of a better way of saying and if we weren’t positioning ourselves what to perform well in all environments.
So from an asset liability perspective we’re making sure that we’re not being pigs at the trough and just taking advantage of it all today but there is opportunities with some more expansion there.
In terms of longer term guidance I think there is any number of things credit normalization increased interest rates.
At some point in time even if we’re extending out the duration of maturities of the funding if and when that matures in a higher rate environment.
I would say the biggest reason though is if I’ve kept that guidance and we’ve not been comfortable moving of it is – David has been pretty clear about our goals to become the leading direct consumer bank in the country.
And I think part of what comes with that is diversification.
And the other consumer asset classes we’re not playing in today have lower yields than several of the ones we are playing in today.
The good news is they also have lower loss rates.
So on a risk-adjusted basis the returns they drive are very very similar but they would – that further expansion would be diluted to margins.
So that’s the biggest reason we’ve kept it in tact.
Okay that’s great.
And then my one quick follow-up is on the Diners expense this quarter.
Are we getting to the tail-end of that incremental Diners cost in Europe or are we looking at that likely to continue over the next few quarters? I would say you should expect it will continue over the next couple of quarters.
It’s really being driven by the business we acquired in Europe the Italian Diners franchisee and the processor related there too.
I am not so sure I would take that number and make that number a run rate.
I’d give you that guidance but I would also expect there will be some drive that comes with that business for the foreseeable future.
Okay thank you.
The next question is from Craig Maurer with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi.
Would it be correct to assume that if you’re seeing increased spend volume over the last few weeks as the weather improved that’s coming with increased demand for lending or accelerating of loan growth? And secondly with respect to PayPal and assuming that they are yet to show any understanding of what a value proposition would need to be at a physical point of sale would it be fair to characterize that your belief in their growth is now switched to a hope for growth? Well I think on the second one you need to talk to PayPal.
I wouldn’t comment.
We value PayPal as a partner.
We still are very optimistic in the long-term but what I would say is that they are going to continue to test and learn and develop and where we exactly start and where we exactly end.
As you would expect its marks [ph] will change.
And you are seeing that with all the other players in the space as well whether it’s Amazon or Google or Apple or they’re all changing as time goes past.
In terms of the first question… Sales outlook [ph].
I would say we already feel really good about our loan growth accelerating to nearly 5% this quarter.
If I can keep it at that level I’d be thrilled.
I would not get ahead of myself and say it’s going to necessarily accelerate from here.
I’d love to see a little more acceleration in our sales growth.
And while I feel really good about it if we continue to see a little pick up in retail sales more broadly in the economy.
And maybe that our sales and our balance growth move closer to being in line versus sales be in a little bit [indiscernible].
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Betsy<i> </i>Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Couple of questions.
One was follow-up to the NIM discussion.
I know you’ve had high APR balances and have been trading down but very very slowly.
So I was just wondering A what’s driving.
Why did this slow and then B are you assuming your normalized NIM outlook that – or your long-term NIM outlook I should say that those high ARP balances have already traded? Yes so Betsy if you look at the higher rates buckets it’s down to somewhere on the nature I may have it little wrong but I am really close.
I think about 16% of the total above give or take somewhere in that and I think it’s maybe 15%.
A big chunk of that is cash advance balances the rate on which is not covered or regulated on the CARD Act.
So the amount of high rate balances left to a trade is relatively modest and I’d be honest in telling you that the bucket is getting replenished somewhere near about as fast as to trading.
So it seems to be approaching a point of stability.
It will decline from here a little bit more but relative stability in that regard.
So I think the high rate balances that are trading are not having the same including the factors that we were fighting here a year or two ago.
Because it’s [indiscernible].
Yes exactly right.
So it feels like we’re approaching a point of state to spare at least for now.
I wouldn’t say we’re all the way there yet necessarily but it feels like we’re getting somewhere close to that.
And I apologize I’ve forgotten second part of the question.
Our long-term loans targets do we assume more run-off? The long-term target do we assume more run-off.
Now the same thing.
It’s basically just assumes we’re reaching a point of spaces there more or less but it projects that there will be some continued run-off from here.
Yes I mean it’s again that longer term NIM target is really driven by the mix shift that we anticipate seeing overtime as we broaden the base of assets.
Okay.
And so consumers already shouldn’t have product and grows as they seek that type of financing and it can go up as well.
So that’s not on your base case.
Correct.
Okay.
Then second question just on the other income line.
Could you help us understand how is that mortgage-related revenues and could you speak to the thought process around portfolio-ing mortgages and is there an acceleration time? Sure.
I would say with respect to the portfolio-ing of mortgages I would say I don’t see that any time in the near-term in our current business plans.
I think our cost of capital is in the particularly efficient place to hold a market price asset shall we say of that within a spread.
So we probably aren’t the most efficient holder for portfolio mortgages.
We do from time to time contemplate with every service RM [ph] product.
They’ll read that as me telegraphing or going into servicing next week by any stretch of the imagination.
It’s just something we do consider to control the customer experience.
I think we’re very proud of the customer service we provide.
And our ability to keep driving that forward is something that’s very important to us.
With respect to the decrease in other income and how much of it is related to the mortgage business.
I was in the mortgage business is the biggest single component of that decrease in other income.
Year-over-year.
Yes year-over-year.
And it’s about probably plus or minus let’s call it between $30 million and $40 million year-over-year decline in that line item that’s driven by the mortgage business.
So as I’ve kind of guided and as David guided you all to historically I would say we bought the business because we wanted to be in the asset class.
We purposely got it small.
So in the good days maybe we were creating a penny or so a share to income overtime on a quarterly basis.
And maybe today we’re taking away penny a quarter per share give or take something like that.
So it’s not really a material driver of the earnings stream today and feels like a place we want to be playing some type of a role as part of our goal to become that leading direct consumer bank but growing it before we figured out the right formula for it doesn’t make sense.
Okay.
So that too is kind of steady state in terms of seeing adjustment that you want to make there? Yes I think if we saw the right opportunity to penetrate more deeply to purchase mortgage market I think as team we’d be prepared to make the investments for the right opportunities.
But I think again in this environment we need to see the clear path of doing that.
We’re not going to just throw money at it to see if it works.
We have to see a clear path of that being a good investment decision.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question is from Chris Donat with Sandler O’Neill.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon and thanks for taking my questions.
I wanted to ask on the marketing side.
As I look at the last three quarters you’re basically flat year-on-year with marketing expense and this is at the same time if you’re launching some new products.
So I am wondering has there been some shift in your marketing spend either call it class marketing versus branding or maybe some shift in the channels where you’re advertising that you’re finding more efficient place to do your marketing like internet versus direct mail? Just curious on how you’re keeping your marketing so steady year-on-year? Well we’re certainly trying to be efficient with our marketing.
And in terms of the first part of your question I mean we’ve kind of had a series of new products.
I mean we launched Discover it last year.
We recently added free FICO Scores on statements.
We’re continuing to have maybe you wouldn’t call them total new product launches but significant product development and that are newsworthy and frankly that’s one of the reasons that our ad dollars and our marketing dollars go further because we have real news to tell consumers subscribe their name.
And we’re going to continue to do that.
At the same time we are getting better and better at internet and a direct digital marketing.
And you’re seeing us do more and more in that space a very high percentage around new applications are coming there.
And we’re continuing to fine tune I mentioned the new application that is having a better click-through and completion rates.
So we continue to try to take steps to make our marketing dollars go further.
Okay.
And then… One thing I would like to add just to make sure we’re all levels that is if we saw the right opportunities that we’re going to drive the right kind of returns this is a team that will invest if we had the right opportunities right.
And I think certain of our competitors have basically pulled way back on marketing spend and that’s probably – unless we saw diminishing returns from it not somewhere we’d be right now.
Okay.
And then just shifting gears.
So something else that had been disclosed in your 10-K about the FDIC notification about potential program efficiencies on AML BSL if there is just any updates there or anything to say? No there is not an update.
We’re continuing much as I mentioned with the CFPB.
They have a very collaborative working relationship and we’ll let you know more if and when we get to the point where we can reach closure and let you know how things turn out.
Got it.
Thanks.
The next question is from Brian Foran with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi good evening guys.
Hi Brian.
I guess just on – most of my questions have been asked but maybe on deposits.
Can you remind us kind of as we been flat for a while how much of that is just using to legacy higher rates stuff go versus how much of that is increased competition in the marketplace? I’d say it’s all the former from our perspective.
Well we have been reasonable stable after a period of very rapid growth within that when we talked about some in Investor Day we’ve significantly remixed and have carefully gone through the portfolio and have been maybe less aggressive on pricing and more aggressive on the most profitable parts of that to position ourselves for rising rate environment to make sure we’re with core customers.
But one of the most important factors is that its heavily cross-sell.
And I think last year about 50% of that total book has actually came from cross-sell as opposed to new customers to the franchise.
Last year was about 70% cross-sell.
And so we think that turning this into really all core deposits is very important.
I think going forward the big thing is checking account.
That’s not going to change the mix dramatically or add to balances dramatically in the near-term but in the long-term that is very strategic for us because that is fairly relationship driven and we think we have a very differentiated product with no fees rewards and mobile capabilities that are unmatched.
But if these are sticky it will take time but that in the long-term is where we’d love to see some growth.
And just maybe one follow-up.
There is a separate question.
I feel like I’m asking something that’s already been asked but just as I look through these loan yields I keep waiting for the mix shift in competition to bring them down and it’s the only thing that keep going up.
So you kind of touched on how couple of different things happening in different corners [ph] but were you surprised by how well the loan yields evolved how to adopt this cycle and is there anything identifiable in the near-term that would change that? Well remember there is an interaction with loan losses.
And so loan credit losses means we were charged-off interest.
And so to some degree a new normal in credit will be a new normal resulting some new normal in NIM.
The second thing I would point out is that things are a bit different from card – as a result of CARD Act.
And as you know one of the key attributes of CARD Act is you really can’t change and I think change rates down the road.
And so I think people maybe are a little more careful about going in with too low of a rate upfront.
And so it’s keeping their competition much more disciplined.
And maybe in past cycles there might have been rate decreases now but once you decrease you can never go back up.
And so I think that is keeping a certain amount of discipline in the marketplace.
And I think that would be here to stay.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
The next question is from Bob Napoli with William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Thank you good afternoon.
I just want to clarify I think you said that the new accounts in credit cards were up 10% year-over-year.
Is that right? I said double-digits.
Double-digit… I didn’t say the exact percentage.
Okay.
And then maybe what drove when you had flat marketing as was earlier pointed out what drove the double-digit? And is the Discover it at all changing the demographics of the customer base.
So what’s driving that growth? Is it continuing? Is it sustainable and is that product changing the demographics of Discover customers somewhat? Well I would point back to my earlier comments about getting incremental improvements in our marketing effectiveness in the digital space as well as the introduction of the free FICO Scores which is resonating well as well as our great service.
And I think we’re doing a better and better job with getting the word out that we have a fantastic service.
I think that we’re seeing on balance a slightly younger attraction.
And I think that would be consistent with being digital kind of focus.
And frankly people that are a bit younger probably have greater appeal to the free FICO Scores because they may still be building their – their credit scores aren’t as locked in after decades of behaviors.
And that we’re pleased with making our money go a bit further.
And then on your redemption rate I guess are taking the charge this quarter.
I think the American Express has given out numbers.
They are probably in the mid 90s on the redemption rate.
What is the redemption rate for Discover? Is it similar to American Express? Is it much lower? We’re looking at each other across the table right now.
I’m not sure we probably disclose that one.
What I would say is our goal would be to make sure our customers have the opportunity to avail themselves that Cashback Bonus to the greatest extent possible.
I mean we are – we take actions on a regular basis like that they would Cashback Bonus at Amazon and other features to try and make that redemption very easy for the customer.
We found it’s driven dramatically increased engagement on the part of our customers.
If you look at the receivables growth we’ve had vis-à-vis our competitors A it’s pretty significant and I think there is a reason they are choosing to build those receivables with us.
And I would say if you looked at the components of that 5% receivables growth when you look at the first quarter basically all that growth was standard merchandize sales all right.
I mean there was not a significant amount of VT [ph] in the component.
There was not a significant amount of promotional merchant component.
It’s basically standard merchandize.
We’re getting to see old-fashioned way and that’s the best most profitable time.
So it feels really good.
It is in that general ZIP codes.
And it’s been hard for quite sometime and that’s partly how we designed it.
It’s cash.
It’s not points.
We tried to have – make it – as a competitive advantage make it easier to redeem.
We tried to have minimal brokerage.
What we see as the payback is not in the brokerage but in increased usage.
And so it’s a high percentage.
And then on the last question – last question if I could sneak in on the leading direct consumer bank focus.
Is there a – to accelerate the view I mean you’re trading at 11x earnings.
It’s been a great stock and earnings have gone up.
And I’m sure investors aren’t complaining about the stock but mid-regional banks are putting it 15x earnings.
And you’re really in a sweet spot of banking I mean people are closing branches not opening branches and you have a good brand and position.
Is there a way to accelerate that view I mean to grow the checking the deposit? Is there some M&amp;A that possibly would bid with your franchise that maybe accelerate the checking account the growth of checking accounts or other products for Discover? Well I think checking in particular I am not sure who one would acquire because I think we’re with the leading edge there.
Arguably I think there are some that have done a good job USAA is one I would point to because they’re with a more focused customer base but they’ve done a great job on service and actually getting people to use out as their checking – having the primary checking account.
But there is – I think generally we would consider other ways to accelerate our growth but there is not a lot of direct players out there in any of our asset classes that one would think about being able to acquire.
I mean student loans can certainly fit that criteria a few years ago and you saw us take action.
So we have done things to accelerate were appropriate and we always looked but we would have to make sure it was something that did the strategy.
Most of what would be out there would be branch banks which isn’t as you said direct banking.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
The next question is from Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just to start off I am trying to just go back to your commentary Mark about the loss reserves and where they should be expected to trend and then also the provisions.
And I am trying to just frame this in my mind get to help you better quantify the thinking around provisioning would be related to growth but if I look at your – I go back of Q1 of 2012 I annualize your charge-off say in the credit card business and then I subtract from that what you had in reserves associated with the card portfolio and divide that by the average loan balance in that portfolio.
There is a gap of about – it comes out to me the math looks that we were 100 basis points and I call that cushion if you will for lack of a better word.
And then if you look at the same calculation of Q1 of 2013 that was about 60 62 basis points.
And then in the most recent quarter about 32 basis points.
So am I correct in just running that calculation thinking that okay if were to use the term cushion for lack of a better word the cushion is thinner now clearly as you’ve gone down reserves and that’s why you’re going to be having more provision related to growth as opposed to having any additional opportunities to release reserves? Is that the right way of thinking about it? No.
I wouldn’t think about in terms of that cushion – in terms of that thought process.
I mean we don’t – GAAP doesn’t allow you to keep cushion per se.
GAAP basically requires you to be pretty darn transparent about where you think losses are actually trending.
And I can promise you there are regulators from multiple different regulatory bodies and external auditor who crawls all over those loss reserve models on a regular basis.
So I wouldn’t think about it in terms of there being some cushion put in there.
I think Sameer in terms of where that trending goes from here I would say loan growth is going to cause – you mean the components of it what I can’t do is tell you every quarter exactly how they are going to swing.
But the components that we process do have to have a positive provisioning would be at least in the near-term those that are related to loan growth growth in the balance sheet growth in assets because we don’t see any significant turn in the overall environment for credit any time soon okay.
Another factor that would cause positive provisioning would be the student loan business right.
Our organic student loan business only 36% of that at this point of time is in repayment.
So as that portfolio continues to seize in that one will be driving modest additions.
I think the flat score of the student loans was $9 million with loan loss reserve addition if you will in the total calculation something like that.
So those would be the two big factors that would cause positive provisioning.
On the flip side of the equation what in a stable credit environment or a nearly stable credit environment would cause you to have releases I would say it would be for both bankruptcy and contractual accounts.
What’s our experience and hence our revised forecast based on that experience is for both the average balances that will be impacted as well as the number of accounts that will be impacted.
So if you have a situation where you see average balances are going down and you have a situation where you see the number of accounts being impacted are going down that obviously helps.
So that would be the component parts and pieces of the puzzle.
Last couple of quarters we saw slight increase in some of those numbers.
This quarter we saw a decrease.
Hope that’s helpful.
That’s helpful.
I was looking only at your card business and I was just moving into baseline assumption that you have about 12 months of reserves of charge-offs in your reserves and then looking at your run rate of charge-offs I was trying to extrapolate from that but you’re color is very helpful.
The other question is on a different note your personal loan product I mean clearly you’ve had a lot of growth there.
You’ve been very successful.
Now the other day in one of the newspapers there was some discussion about a company called Lending Club which seems to target prime customers specifically for purposes of refinancing on the higher cost credit card debt and other types of debt.
I was curious it doesn’t look like you’ve felt – I mean clearly I mean portfolio is probably lot smaller than the card portfolio but it seems like you’re generating pretty healthy growth rates there but do you come across this company? Do you – is it a different demographic from what you usually target because it seems like the demographic was pretty similar.
So I was just trying to reconcile your fast growth rates with the fact that there seem to be other competitors coming in specifically targeting that customer base? Well from what I can tell I would say the P2P companies are probably the leading competitors to what we’re doing.
And so we certainly are taking notice.
From what I can tell some of them tend to be a little broader in their credits than we are.
We are quite focused on prime and as opposed to sort of full spectrum on lending but nonetheless I think some of them were doing some interesting things.
And one of the things that we have done historically has been by invitation-only kind of marketing and we are testing into this year at least considering the applications of people that are coming to us through the internet site from broad markets and may benefit from debt consolidation product.
And that may bring us a little bit closer to some of the things that – space that they’re in.
Okay great.
That’s helpful David.
And just one quick one I’ll sneak it in there just to make sure I mean it doesn’t sound to me like you’re opposed to buying portfolios of private student loans clearly Sallie Mae bank will be a stand-alone entity that said they want to sell roughly about half of their production would be $2 billion in loans.
Is that something you’d be interested in or should we assume that for now unless you’re got a really compelling price you’re just going to focus some more on the organic growth? I mean I think if it was the portfolio – if the portfolio was available we would simply run the numbers and decide if it was a good thing for shareholders and whether hurdles or not.
I am not familiar with what Sallie may or may not do.
I suspect that you’re talking more about what they’ll securitize versus keeping the balance sheet which is probably something little different than buying whole loans but.
I think these are probably the whole loan sales.
They originated about $4 billion a year and they plan to sell $2 billion to one of their other entities that’s being spun out but presumably they could also offer these out to the open market for other bidders to bid for these loans.
So I was just curious if you’d be interested in that or even philosophically as you pointed out you just want to focus on your organic business.
It sounds like if the price is right you might probably be interested? Yes.
Well I would say the primary focus across all of our businesses is organic growth and we’re really pleased that we’re achieving good organic growth.
We would be open to things that fit the strategy and could accelerate that growth but Sallie hasn’t called me yet so I couldn’t comment on that specifically.
All right.
Okay great.
Thank you.
The next question is from with Rick Shane with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
If we look at sort of the backdrop on what’s happened in mortgage I think it’s fair to say that – you called a tailwind in the beginning if you didn’t probably necessarily drove profit building a little bit quicker.
You called it headwind over the last couple of quarters and I think the expectation is once you turn profitable in that business it would have been steadily profitable.
Two questions here.
One is you talked about the revenues can you talk about the expense controls that you’ve seen associated with mortgages you’ve seen a slowdown.
And following that do you believe at current run rates which I think are probably a realistic expectation going forward that that business can at least be modestly profitable? Well I would say that you characterized it right.
Things did better than expected in this way and a little worse than expected recently.
I read somewhere that we’re in a 17-year low on mortgage originations in total.
And I am not sure I agree with your characterization is that business is steady because it by nature tends to be cyclical.
And I think we’re in a particularly unusual tough cycle right at the moment.
I think that the direct part of that business has tended to be more refinance focused.
So it tends to be even more cyclical.
And so I think in our long-term view what we want to do is generate more first mortgage production which will be more stable.
During the quarter you saw us make at least one announcement on relationships with realtors and search properties that would help actually generate direct first mortgage origination.
And I think that’s indicative of some of what we want to do over the long-term is move to that more stable production model.
We have also taken steps as everyone else has done to rationalize the excess capacity.
In the industry you have out to take expenses out.
In the near-term our objective is probably simply just to get back to breakeven.
It’s not costing us huge money right now but we do see a path to get to breakeven fairly quickly.
And then after that the question is can we move it up to a long-term contributor.
And then eventually to grow it to be in more substantial contributor.
Got it.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Well actually can I circle back on that? Can you talk a little bit about how much of the costs – I mean you basically showed a 50% year-over-year compression of revenues.
And again totally understandable given where we are in the cycle.
What do you think on an apples-to-apples basis the expense ratios down there? It’s just not material unless to break out.
As we’ve said we took cost down as well so that whole revenue didn’t go up to the bottom line but it was enough of a swing us from a modest profit to a modest loss.
And I would just… Yes.
I would say look from my perspective the expense cut probably hasn’t been as deep as the revenue loss just to be intellectually honest with you guys in here.
I mean I think it needs to be one thing if we had a big stable business that was operating at giant scale.
Yes you take out all the expenses and you’d be ready to rock and roll.
We’re actually trying to figure up what the right role for us in this business is and how to play it the right way.
So we’re looking for opportunities to penetrate purchase money mortgage channel as David alluded to earlier a number of different things.
So we’re not going to cut to the bone but by the same again if we’re not going to be improving in terms of how we manage the business either we’re going to be smart about it but we want to find a way to make this a contributing business that really adds value to our customer relationships going forward.
So yes we’ve taken a red pencil to it but we are also not focused on just slashing it we want to find a way to make it work.
One other thing I would add is that we have diverted some of the resources in that business into our new home equity product that we launched late last year.
And I think we’ve got some early months of optimizing the process and still want to be fully reviewed [ph] that you start to think about scaling that business but that’s a business that I think is going to tend to be countercyclical with the core mortgage business.
And as rates rise and as home equity starts to recover I think there is going to be some very nice growth.
And in contrast the mortgage business that very much lends itself to direct marketing.
There is lot of first mortgage versus second – versus is refinancing issue.
We think we can compete robustly for a large percentage of that market.
Terrific.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Scott Valentin with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good evening and thanks for taking my question.
David you mentioned double-digit account growth with Discover – I guess overall double-digit account growth for credit cards.
I am just wondering how that’s progressed over time? You mentioned you launched some Discover it campaign about a year ago.
Wonder if it’s been consistent? If you’ve seen acceleration in the pace of account additions? Well we had increased our accounts from when we launched Discover it.
And we’re now on the one year anniversary of really launching Discover it broadly.
So when we talk about double-digit that’s lapping the increases that we have in the initial launch of Discover it.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up question.
You mentioned as more loans enter repayment losses will go up in the student loan portfolio.
Where do you see kind of – if you were to stabilize the portfolio where would you see kind of losses over say the lifetime of a loan percentage-wise? Well I think as we’ve talked about a few years ago well we project lifetime losses of somewhere around 10% roughly a 10-year life on average with prepayments.
And so you’d expect it to be a little bit north of 100 basis points but as we described to you before the first two years of repayment typically you see half of the total of lifetime losses occur as people have to start the repayment and there at the early part of their career and therefore have the lowest income generally.
And so as people would expect as we get more and more people that bubble going through the first two years of repayment we would expect it to be well north of that 100 basis points and you’re seeing that in our numbers.
So it’s tracking pretty much according to our expectations.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
The final question comes from David Hochstim with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I just had two really short follow-up clarification questions.
David mentioned before that the loss of the third-party issuing relationship would be immaterial.
Was that immaterial to payment services income or to total company income and when could that start to show up? The total company income.
Obviously the volumes and the profits on the much smaller base of the third-party payments business is the lion’s share of the one that the third-party.
All right.
And do you have a sense of when the conversions would start? We expect later this year.
Okay.
And then you were saying the lion’s share of the network partners volume? Correct.
All right.
And payment services income has affected as well? The payment services income also has PULSE and Diners contributing to it.
Yes if you remember that network partners is the third component with the smallest portion of volume.
Right.
Thanks.
And then just wonder if you could tell us how much lower you think protection products revenue can go? Are we getting close to trough do you think? Well we have not restored marketing.
And so you’re going to see continued attrition.
It maybe trading a little bit slower than we might have anticipated.
We’re seeing some very nice loyalty and customers and maybe that’s inside the target reach maybe helping because those securities attributes can be pretty valuable to people.
But it’s going to continue to trade until we restore marketing.
Okay.
And then I don’t know I might have missed it but Mark did you gave an estimate of what you think your Tier – your Basel III Tier 1 common ratio as of March 31? No we didn’t but it’s only off by maybe 10 or 12 basis points from our current stated Tier 1 common equity level.
So it does not – implementing Basel III does not have a material impact on us.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you David.
That was the final question.
Ladies and gentlemen I’d like to turn the call back over to Bill Franklin.
Thank you for joining us this evening.
If you have any follow-up questions Investors Relations will be around this evening.
Have a good night.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the Discover Financial Services first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good evening and welcome to the Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
My name is Bakiba and I will be your operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Bill Franklin.
Bill Franklin you may begin.
Thank you Bakiba.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us.
Let me begin as always with slide two of our earnings presentation which is on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company’s future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today’s earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report and in our 10-K and 10-Q which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the second quarter 2014 earnings materials which are posted on our website and have been furnished to the SEC we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company’s non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today’s discussions.
Our call this afternoon will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
During the Q&amp;A period it would be very helpful if you limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up so we can make sure that everyone is accommodated.
So now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Good afternoon everyone and thanking for joining us today.
After the market closed we reported second quarter net income of $644 million or $1.35 per diluted share up 13% over the prior year.
This was driven primarily by profitable loan growth and share repurchases.
We also continued to deliver strong performance with return on equity of 23%.
Our direct banking business continues to deliver solid results and slide four of the earning presentation shows Discover’s total loan growth of 7% over the prior year.
This was driven by strong growth in card personal loans as well as student loans.
Card receivables growth of 6% this quarter continues to outpace our peers.
We are achieving increased wallet share with existing customers and adding loans from new accounts as well.
Our Discover card sales growth also accelerated to 6%.
The overall value proposition of Discover continues to resonate with customers as evidenced by another quarter of double-digit new account growth year-over-year.
Additionally we added some new designs for the card and we rolled out a new cash back reward card primarily to appeal to students.
Speaking of students during the second quarter we enhanced our student loan products by introducing a 1% cash reward for students who achieved good grades.
Additionally in the quarter we announced new lower rates for students applying for loans.
We launched an in-school repayment product and we began testing the consolidation student loan product all of which are showing positive results to-date.
Shifting gears Discover was recently named the winner of three Call Center Excellence Awards by the International Quality and Productivity Center for demonstrating superior thinking creativity and execution across the full spectrum of call center functions.
I think this service excellence is one of the reasons why we have some of the lowest customer attrition in the industry.
And to further enhance the customer experience we implemented our new core banking platform over Memorial Day weekend which supports all of our deposit products.
The flexibility and the operational efficiencies that we expected to provide are fundamental to our vision to being the leading [direct] bank.
Moving to our payment segment volume increased by 3%.
During the quarter two of our newer emerging payment partners went live with transactions.
However I’ll remind you that it will take some period of time for partners to achieve scale.
As we have previously discussed Pulse continues to deal with pressures on volume and margins due to competitive challenges in the debit industry.
Despite two consecutive quarters of positive growth we learned that we would likely lose significant volume from a large debit issuer beginning in 2015.
While the prospect of losing some business down the road is disappointing this loss is not material relative to the profitability of the total company.
With that said we are very pleased with the branding and superior returns that our network helps drive for our card business and we do remain focused on improving third party volume over the long term.
Lastly as we previously discussed in the second quarter we entered into a consent order with the FDIC related to our AML and BSA compliance programs.
The order does not include any civil money penalties but provides for program enhancements.
In addition the Federal Reserve has recently notified us that it also intends to enter in to Supervisory Action with the company regarding our enterprise-wide AML and BSA compliance programs.
We are committed to resolving these issues with the regulators in a timely manner.
Before I turn the call over to Mark to walk through the details of our second quarter results let me say it that I am proud of our record rate EPS card loan sales growth and our ability to continue to drive solid revenue growth with expense discipline.
Mark? Thanks David.
I’ll begin my comment today by going through revenue detail on slide five of our presentation.
Net interest income increased $159 million or 11% over the prior year due to continued loan growth as well as higher net interest margins.
Total non-interest income decreased $28 million to $583 million primarily due to lower direct mortgage-related income and lower protection product revenue.
Given our suspension in protection product sales revenue related to these products continues to decline albeit at a slower pace than initially expected.
These items were partially offset by higher net discount and interchange revenue which increased by $19 million or 6% year-over-year driven by higher Discover IT Card sales volume.
Our reward rates for the quarter was 91 basis points which is higher than last year due to greater standard and promotional rewards but down from last quarter which included a decrease in the expected forfeiture rate.
Payment services revenue for the quarter was flat year-over-year.
Overall we grew total company revenues by 6% for the quarter.
Turning to slide six total loan yield of 11.42% was up 18 basis points over the prior year driven by higher card and private student loan yields.
The year-over-year increase in card yield primarily reflects a higher portion of balances coming from revolving customers as well as lower interest charge-offs.
The year-over-year increase in private student loan yield is the result of better than expected performance in certain acquired pools of loans.
As we discussed on our fourth quarter earnings call under PCI accounting favorability is recognized over the life of the underlying loans via an increasing yield and that’s what happening here.
Overall higher total loan yield combined with lower funding costs resulted in the 40 basis point increase in the net interest margin over the prior year to 9.84%.
Turning to slide seven total operating expense decreased by $23 million or 3% over the prior year mainly due to the decline in other expense which was somewhat offset by an increase in headcount and professional fees.
The decline in other expense was caused by the absence of $40 million in Diner’s Club charges which we incurred last year.
For the quarter our total company efficiency ratio was below 37% more than 1% lower than our long-term target due in part to the timing of certain expenses throughout the year.
Turning to provision for loan losses and credit on slide eight provision for loan losses was higher by $120 million compared to the prior year due to a $23 million reserve build this quarter compared to a $78 million reserve release during the second quarter of 2013.
The reserve build mainly reflects our continued card loan growth.
Sequentially the credit card net charge-off rate increased by one basis point to 0.33% and the 30 plus day delinquency rate decreased by nine basis points to 1.63%.
The private student loan net charge-off rate excluding purchase loans was down one basis points sequentially to 1.3% and the 30 plus day delinquency rate decreased by 13 basis points to 1.66%.
Overall the student loan portfolio continues to season generally in-line with our expectations.
Switching to personal loans the net charge-off rate was down 12 basis points sequentially to 1.95% and the over 30 day delinquency rate was down two basis points to 66 basis points.
Overall we remain pleased with our strong credit results.
One last item I would call out in the income statement is that during the quarter we had a favorable resolution to some outstanding tax matters.
And as a result our 36.6% effective tax rate for the quarter was lower than anticipated.
Next I will touch on our capital position on slide nine our Tier 1 common ratio increased sequentially by 30 basis points to 15.2% due to solid earnings.
During the quarter we repurchased $177 million of common shares.
One of our top priorities is to drive shareholder value through effective capital management.
To that end we still plan to repurchase a total of $1.6 billion of common shares for the four quarter period ending March 31 2015 the same amount as our CCAR capital action submitted to the Fed.
Also on slide nine is our outlook for 2014 which I would simply say remains relatively unchanged from the guidance we gave back in February at our financial community briefing.
So to summarize during the second quarter we continue to build on our momentum established at the beginning of the year.
Discover drove better than industry loan growth net interest margin continues to be above our long-term target the credit environment remains benign and we are effectively controlling our expenses.
That concludes our formal remarks today.
So I will turn the call back to our operator Bakiba to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Bakiba?  Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question is coming from the Mark DeVries from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah thanks.
Question David to what do you attribute the 6% card loan growth above the high end of your guidance? Is that you’re actually seeing signs of acceleration in spend across the industry or is it better than expected traction from the marketing of Discovery card? And then could you actually see it potentially remaining above that rate for the period or is that a level growth that you at some level would think might outstrip kind of your desire to grow here? Well to answer your second question we are not prepared to revise our 2% to 5% long-term target.
I mean I am certainly pleased that we actually were a bit above that target this quarter.
And I mean you’ve just seen our various competitors announce and I’d say generally I certainly didn’t see that much signs of acceleration across the industry.
So I think we continue to gain market share.
So I would say that you mentioned the success of Discover IT that is certainly contributing.
But some of the other things that are contributing are lower charge-offs less attrition some wallet share build with existing customers as they respond to many programs and higher levels of service as well as I mentioned growing – putting on more new accounts and we are getting loans on the new accounts.
So I think we are kind of hitting on all cylinders and it’s showing up in loan growth.
And we also saw our sales growth accelerate to 6% this quarter which is the best in a number of quarters.
Okay great.
And just a follow up on the guidance around reward expense margin give you are still at some of the 100 basis points for the year.
I think the first half of the year is only been about 95 bps.
Should we assume that there is going to be greater promotional activity in the back half of the year that’s going to bring you closer to 105 for the back half of the year or should we consider this conservative guidance there? Yeah.
I would not interpret it as conservative guidance.
I would say I feel really good about that guidance.
The area of 1% is the right way to think about it.
If anything Mark for the year it may trend up a basis points or two higher than that.
So I would say it remains good guidance.
But to answer your seasonal question you’ve seen as in year ago this was a fairly light quarter and then we tended to pick up more moving in to the holidays.
And we’d expect to do the same this year.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And then our next question is going to come from Sanjay Sakhrani.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Thank you.
I guess you guys built reserves this quarter and I was just wondering as we look out should we just expect that you guys will continue to build reserves? And maybe just on a related note when we think about the seasoning process from the growth that you’ve booked over the course of last 1.5 years I mean kind of where are we with that process? I mean when do we start seeing that actually be somewhat of a headwind in the face of kind of stabilization in credit? Thanks.
Sanjay I will try and answer this and do them justice here.
I would say from a reserving perspective reserve trajectories still feel like they are being driven by growth.
The credit environment the backdrop itself still feels relatively benign.
We don’t see any fundamental churns out there at all.
So quarter-over-quarter there might be some variability in that.
I think as we said before the gap is pretty prescriptive in terms of how you actually set the reserves.
So on a 1.6 billion we may [bill them] 21 and release 20 the next quarter is the way I think about it.
We are just sitting flat bumping along the bottom with those kind of relative numbers.
In terms of seasoning and where things are going to come out what I would say is we’ve been generating real strong loan growth now for over three years.
And in light of that if you think about the way our card loan seasons you typically tend to see peak charge-offs somewhere between month 18 and month 30.
So we are already well into the seasoning process on the first two years on those vintages of growth which I think really speaks to the quality of the loans we are attracting really underscores that we are operating first of all in a benign credit environment but then really with respect to us I think it really underscores the fact we focus on a prime bar and the quality of that portfolio that we are building.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay right.
I am sorry one just quick follow-up.
Has that the profile of the currency you book changed over the course of the time I mean have you guys tried to broaden it out a little bit more? I’d say overall the quality is quite consistent.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question is going to come from Eric Wasserstrom of SunTrust Robinson.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Thanks very much.
Just a follow-up on the growth.
How should we think about the sequential growth David just given the trend that you’ve mentioned which is sort of above standard growth for three years in a row.
It’s starting to lead to dis-inflating sequentially growth rates.
So how should we think about that dynamic? Well I’m not sure I follow exactly your sequential question.
I guess see if you… Sorry in credit card the sequential growth was about 3.5% versus the 6% year-on-year growth right? Yeah well obviously the card business is seasonal.
So I personally think the better way to do it is to look at it year-over-year which removes that seasonality and we have been operating near that the high-end of the 2% to 5% target for a while now and I guess this is the first quarter that we have actually broken through that and are above that.
I wouldn’t promise that we are going to remain above it but I certainly would suggest that we are going to be at least at the high-end here for a while because I don’t see any of the positive trends that we are achieving reserving in the next quarter or two.
Thanks.
And Mark if I can just ask one quick follow-up question do you happen to know the dollar amount of the tax benefit in the period? I don’t have it at my fingertips.
We can follow-up and get that to you.
Yeah thanks very much.
Thank you.
And that our next question is going to come from Don Fandetti of Citigroup.
Please go ahead your line is open.
David you had made some comments about the loan growth.
As we look at some of your competitors I mean it looks like there is a fairly consistent I guess you could call it an uptick in loan growth but it sounds like maybe you’re saying that you’re not really seeing that or is it more you just want to be cautious because it’s a small uplift I mean are you seeing any increased demand for credit from customers or is it – and we understand that you’re definitely gaining market share just trying you know parse it out a little bit more.
Well I am not exactly sure what you are looking at but from our biggest competitors what I’m seeing is that American express is the only large competitor that’s growing close to our levels and the other largest issuers are sort of plus or minus 2% kind of ranges.
So I am not seeing an overall industry pick-up to sort of our levels of growth.
So it looks – the industry as a whole looks pretty flat.
I mean maybe the industry has moved from minus 1% to plus 1% or something but it’s still darn near flat and so I am very pleased with our 6% growth with a flat industry.
Got it.
And then into July the spend has that held relatively steady? It has the last two months of the quarter and then continuing into this month are pretty consistent with that 6% overall quarter year-over-year.
So feeling good about seeing a little higher growth sustaining for now.
Got it thanks.
Thank you.
And that our next question is going to come from Ryan Nash of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hey good afternoon guys.
Mark when I think about the trajectory of the net interest margin just thinking back to last year I think there was an expectation of decline in the first-half and then improvement in back half of the year.
So while you’re starting base obviously a lot higher at this point just given the seasonal tailwinds that you sometimes see in 3Q should we expect to see the margin begin to expand again from its current levels? Yeah right.
I would say I would expect flattish is the right way to think about it from where we sit right now for the remainder of the year.
I think there are some puts and takes in there.
I think from a loan yield standpoint I think flattish is the way to think about that one.
I think we have a little bit less funding cost tail wind if you will in terms of the maturities that are rolling off and little less pick-up on some of this going forward.
But I would say we actually would have some margin expansion this quarter just to be transparent with our investor base.
I think we had three basis points of sequential contraction that’s because we chose to take some of the goodness we’re seeing right now and use that to position ourselves to perform well when the environment turns and you have a rising rate situation is well.
So we consciously did some of that and I would except you might see us do a little bit more of that as the year goes on.
So I would stick to the flattish NIM guidance as you look to the year.
And is that driving higher sensitivity to rates when rates do eventually raise? Over time yes it will.
Okay.
And then Mark just have one unrelated question on credit you know when I look at the recovery numbers it looks like we are seeing no signs of slowing.
I guess relative to your initial guidance from last year are you seeing any changes on recoveries obviously they are coming in better if they do continue to come better is it safe to say that we could actually see credit improving over the next couple of quarters.
Yeah I would think about recoveries in two different buckets Ryan.
The first bucket is what I’ll call the recoveries on the pool of charge-offs from the recession right.
And as we have said before we have continued to realize that recoveries off that bucket for a much longer period of time then you would following a normal downturn.
Usually by the time you’re 24 months past a charge-off your recoveries have really peaked and they tail off pretty quickly thereafter.
And we’re five years past that point in time and recoveries are still coming off that book and I would say they’re coming at a – they’re attriting at a much lower rate than we would have guessed as you pointed out.
So overtime clearly that’s a finite book it will attrite right.
So I would over time it’s happening slower than we expected but that attrition will take place.
Then you have to look at the new charge-offs that are flowing into the pipe if you will to refill that bucket and I think it’s a really good thing that we don’t have many of them today.
So the fact that we are just not charging-off a lot gives you limited potential for recoveries against a much smaller book of charged-off accounts.
So the recovery rate itself when you pass it up a new charge-offs is very good as it’s ever been the recovery rate on that static pool from the crisis will attrite overtime.
Got it thanks for taking my questions.
You bet.
Thank you.
And then our next question is going to come from David Ho of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
A quick question on expenses you reiterated the guidance for the year for $3.3 billion of expenses.
If I take the first-half run-rate it seems to imply that the second-half will be up about 6% year-over-year.
Is that just kind of the timing of marketing and a little more build another expenses and comp? And how much has the mortgage business been right sized have cost come out of that business as you’ve seen kind of a tick down in revenues there? Yeah I would say $3.3 billion still feels like a good number on the full year.
There is some definitely some seasonality in the expense base there is no question about that and there is some back end load.
I would say with respect to the mortgage company specifically I feel like we have taken the right actions there at this point in time to position that business.
Well it’s still burning a little bit of money but not a real measureable amount to be honest at least not anything that shows up at the top of the company in a meaningful way and we are continuing to work on positioning the longer term strategy with respect to that business within Discover but I feel like we have taken the action that needed to take there.
Okay thanks.
And just following-up on Ryan’s question about asset sensitivity increasing can you remind us what percentage of the books is variable rate loans and of that how much do you expect to be able to re-price or realize the rate changes in a high rate environment? Yeah I think there is bunch of moving pieces in there David.
What I would say is I think an immediate parallel shock of 100 basis points to rates produces something on the order of $130 million roughly was our last quarterly disclosure.
We’ll obviously update in our new Q as well.
The vast majority of the loan book is floating.
The card book floats at this point in time.
Some of the student loans effects and the personal loans as well.
So I don’t have the exact rate down at my fingertips but the vast majority of the book is a floating rate book.
Right.
And you think that would probably rise with the deposits being a little more sticky and the assets being re-priced? Yeah.
I think the one thing we have talked about and I think we just need to continue being transparent about is if you want to continue driving sales growth at some point in time there probably is a cap on some of your floating loans some of the card right if you are going to charge 40% for cards you are not going to get a lot of field usage but we’re far far away from when we think that begins to kick in.
Right.
Thank you for taking my question.
You bet.
Thank you.
And then our next question is going to come from Bill Carcache from Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Thank you.
Good evening.
I had a follow up question on expenses in particular your revenue growth outpaced your operating expenses by over 9% this quarter.
I know you guys have an operating efficiency ratio target but I was hoping that you could discuss how you guys are thinking about positive operating leverage as we look at the business beyond this year and into next is there any kind of a commitment to growing revenues faster than expenses at this point in the cycle or is it really all about the efficiency ratio and expenses overtime will go up or down with revenues? The way I would think about it is to really look at the fact that we’ve been investing pretty heavily over the course of the last couple of years take advantage of the goodness in the environment.
So part of some of the negative operating leverage you’ve seen over the course of last couple of years has really been driven by that fact.
I can assure you that David is laser focused on positive operating leverage and making sure that revenue growth outpaces expense growth over the long run.
I think there is quarters where we will there is quarters where we won’t by virtue of what’s taking place in that given quarter.
So I would say we will anchor to that efficiency ratio but we are always striving for positive operating leverage in the business model.
So then just mathematically to the extent that overtime revenues are growing faster than expenses and there could be overtime some potential for that efficiency ratio target to move lower? Yeah I might comment that we expect some positive operating leverage but probably more modest than what you just cited and I think that one of the things Mark just talked about taking expenses down in for instance home loans and that sort of a one-time event that’s impacting us benefiting us if you will at this time but on the flip side we’ve got higher regulatory related cost and so I think the way to think about it is we’ve established 38% efficiency margin and we expect to roughly maintain that.
It could possibly go the other way at some point because if we see great marketing opportunities we might choose to go the other way.
So we are not promising positive operating margin or operating leverage whatever but if we get off that track it will be for a good reason and for a limited period of time.
Understood and thank you.
If I may on a separate note you guys haven’t had any inverse receivable for the trust in the long time and you’ve talked about this in the past but I think in looking at it I don’t believe that any of your originations from 2009 to 2014 are in there so balance has been gradually decreasing.
I’m just hoping maybe you could briefly touch on how you are thinking about the trust and how it fits in the packing order of funding preferences here? Thanks.
Yeah it’s great cost effective funding for us to issue a card ABS.
What I would say is we have a significant excess of receivables in the trust overall we need for the planned issuances at this point in time and that’s why you haven’t seen it contribute any new assets for the trust in extended period of time.
So when we get into – should we get into a situation where we we would be running up against capacities we’d obviously be willing to consider putting more receivables in.
Great.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
And our next question is going to come from Moshe Orenbuch out of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
I was intrigued David by statement you just made about if you found kind of great marketing opportunities here you are at a point where you weren’t materially increasing marketing expending you are outgrowing you are outgrowing the industry your sales volume growth is accelerating and your cost not certainly well within the range of what you said out.
I guess to turn that question around is I mean what what could you be doing to make it even better is there anything that could be done here and kind of maybe just if you could talk on just how you assess the credit the kind of competitive state in your market? Well I think we have a disciplined approach to thinking about marginal cost and marginal benefit and we look at that across all of our businesses and across of our programs.
And so we think that we’re at a pretty optimal point here and and so at the margin we think we have diminished you know payback from incremental investments and and that we’ve actually been able to focus as much on a fixed efficiency and effectiveness to outgrow the industry not doing flips in the industry.
And I think what you spend in marketing maybe it’s important but what your product is the service the back seat that rewards program how good you are at direct marketing and of course we focus all of our efforts on direct we don’t have channel comp liquid branches and all that.
Those things are just as important.
So we’re constantly evaluating incremental opportunities and killing things that aren’t payback and adding things to do.
Just a follow up if you I mean if you were to do something where it would fall short would it fall short on terms of the cost to produce it or the credit or the spending performance where you think that would be? You know it’s typically in the cost per new account or cost per incremental marketing effort relative to the loan balances and spending and credit performance that you get.
Good.
Thanks very much David.
Thank you.
And then our next question is going to come from Chris Donat out of Sandler O’Neill.
Please go ahead your line is open.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
Had one follow up on the word spending just the seasonality what the second quarter this year being lowest so far and as I look back in last three years second quarter has been the lowest quarter as percent of card sales volume.
Is that solely a function of the the quarterly cash back bonus program or is there something else going on in that seasonality? It’s primarily related to 5% and other promotional programs.
And and...
Got it.
And the single factor is what categories are we promoting and we tend to you saw last year we promoted online thing and big categories like online and department stores therein times and people are doing their holiday shopping and such and then will typically do things like gas programs during the summer and so on but that still tends to a smaller overall category.
Okay and then just a follow-up on a comment that Mark had made sort of tacking on in answer to question there additional spending that you due would be for a limited period of time like I said think about the run rate you are on for this year at 3.2 so things are looking at just to spend on to get to their $3.3 billion of annual spending or operating expenses.
That’s on the variable side right it’s marketing now if you are looking a higher a whole bunch of new people or anything that would recur immediately in 2015 right? Yeah.
I think you should rightly assume the vast majority of it the vast majority of it is variable that’s the right way to think about it.
Got it.
Thanks Mark.
Thank you.
And then our next question is going to come from Bob Napoli.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
A question on capital I know you said you are going to buyback the same amount of stock but I was curious why you didn’t buyback you know as much as you look at your capital level a way to use that capital that can be and I guess the Fed is more comfortable with is some M&amp;A and I just don’t know I mean you guys have been as you’ve mentioned time and – rewarded investors with discipline and are there opportunities to use that capital in a strategic manner that would add additional growth long term growth opportunities that you’re comfortable with and are you looking hard I guess? Why don’t I start the answer that one and then I’ll pass it over to David for more specifics.
First of all why we ended up buying a little bit less this quarter I would say Bob we haven’t got into the habit of talking about when we’re in the market when we’re out of the market why or how much.
So I prefer not to get selective on that.
I’d rather just say we’re going to – our plan is to take out the $1.6 billion over the course of the four quarter rolling period.
I would say with respect to our approach and our appetite for M&amp;A I would just remind you before I pass things to David our capital prioritization stack it’s first and foremost organic growth.
It’s secondly returning it to shareholders which as you rightly point out under the current CCAR process is somewhat constrained these days.
Third it would be financially attractive portfolio acquisitions.
They’ve got to be financially attractive because by definition they are tied to their portfolios so I would say that would be a piece of the puzzle.
And then fourth on that prioritization list would be M&amp;A because you introduce the key man retention risk the diligence risk the integration risk all those other different pieces of puzzle that the others don’t bring forth.
So that’s why we’re pretty disciplined around the way we look at M&amp;A in terms of what we might be willing to consider David I’ll pass that to you for… Well I would just reinforce that we’re primarily an organic growth story and the reason for that is there is a.
I think a limited set of opportunities that would directly fit with our direct banking and payments partner strategy.
Secondly we have achieved a very strong returns in our business and therefore the hurdles as we think about where to put our incremental shareholder’s capital we tended to find more opportunities to actually grow organically and build shareholder value in that way.
And thirdly we do – while we’ve done some M&amp;A overtime we do approach it with a fair bit of skepticism and there is a lot of cases where it has – M&amp;A has detracted from shareholder value versus building that hand.
So we’re going to be very cautious in approaching that.
I guess the final thing I’d say is that I do think that the – we’re playing a long term game here and I think that it’s likely that as regulators and institutions get more comfortable with the new approach and the new levels of capital and the processes in place that some of this sort of constraints may loosen up overtime and so it’s important not to have money burn holes in our pockets because we may be able to return more of it overtime.
Great.
And just a quick follow up I guess on the credit card business.
Have you’ve been adjusting credit lines.
One of your competitors has moved to credit line increases and I think we’ve seen some of that in the Fed data.
Given the strong credit is that a way to get growth have you been doing adjusting credit lines or anything else on the credit side? Our line increased strategy hasn’t changed material over the last couple of years.
Great.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
And then our next question is going to come from Brian Foran.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
I guess on loan yields I kind of asked the same question last quarter and you gave a pretty good decent detailed answer on kind of the broad industry dynamics.
But I mean I guess when I look at it I mean you’ve got a banking industry where loan yields are 4% and falling fast.
You’ve got you guys where loan yields are 11.4% and not falling at all.
I mean is there anything you are seeing on the horizon that would lead to increased competition for those loan yields it’s just you’re in a remarkably good spot where you’re actually able to grow revenue as you’ve grown loan balances so obviously the risk is that changes? Well I think that it’s more a factor of the fact that we focus on direct banking and on more profitable products.
And so I think that if you compare our card yield to other card yields we still look attractive for one reason.
We don’t charge off as much interest as competitors with higher loan losses but it’s a lot closer.
And as we have expanded into other businesses student loans are – is a lower yields than other unsecured loan types but it’s still above secured loan types such as mortgages.
Personal loan also tends to be below card but still it’s a lot closer to card than other banking products.
So one of the direct banking strategy has a lot of benefits picking and choosing which products you offer and which you don’t is one of those and we have been judicious in that.
I guess the final thing I’d say is where else we have been disciplined.
We’re disciplined on our use of promotional rates.
We’re disciplined on focusing on revolvers and if you have lot of transactors in your book you tend to suppress the yield because you have zero earning assets in there and we’ve been judicious on credit because writing [enough] interest also deducts from that yield.
As an unrelated follow-up there is a lot changes going on in private label card and can you just remind us how you think about that business long-term as something that potential part of the roster so to speak? I think we’ve said overtime that that could fit the strategy if we ever found an appropriate entry path but the entry paths are very limited and we have not seen any to-date.
So I would think about that as opportunistic.
Could it happen someday yes but it may never happen and it’s not a critical product in the way that direct check-in or even some of our mortgage products are to thinking about being a leader in direct banking.
It’s more of a nice to have if an opportunity ever happens but private label has had a rebound of late but still if you look at the long term it’s not necessarily growing relative to general purpose cards and it’s a more limited market sized in general purpose cards and so I think there is only room for a more limited set of competitors to offer that kind of product.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And then our next question is going to come from Craig Maurer out of CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah good evening.
Thanks.
At the Investor Day you had talked about looking to significantly enhance your portfolio of spend centric products to try to leverage your network and I was just wondering where you stand in that thought process? Thanks.
I actually don’t remember that comment.
I think we certainly have talked about continuing to enhance and differentiate our core card products and I feel very good about Discover It which is our flagship product the free FICA scores have been very well received by consumers and not widely copied by competitors.
In fact I think we’re still the only one to offer it on the statements.
We’ve added some security features that are somewhat unique in the industry as an example.
We’ve put in the ability for consumers to turn their card on or off with a flick of a button online if for instance they misplaced their card which I am not familiar with other competitors having that.
We’ve continue to enhance the rewards program as well.
So we’ve I think what you heard at the Investor Day was us talking about our focus on good credit quality revolvers and that one of the things that differentiates us is it seems like a number of our competitors are really chasing transactors that look good in today’s rate environment but is not typically driving revenue and that’s one of the reasons you’ve seen in our revenue go up and other card companies go down in revenue because the transactors simply don’t produce as much revenue.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And then our next question is going to come from David Hochstim out of Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah thanks.
I wondered David can you give us a sense of the mix of the contributors for loan growth you mentioned new customers and existing customers and have you done anything with is there any change in teaser rates and promotional rates this quarter? I would say our loan growth continues to be quite balanced.
We are getting loan growth from new customers.
We are also retaining customers and getting higher level of activation and engagement out of existing customers.
So we have not done anything dramatically differentially in teaser rates.
One way you can see that if you haven’t seen a big change in yield.
And so pricing has held up even as growth has held up and even accelerated a bit.
So we are constantly testing adjusting by retaining a very disciplined and balanced loan growth and we have not – in our opinion the quick change your credit or change your pricing could drive a spurt of growth but is not – is easier to execute but the executing a differentiated strategy with all of our customer service onshore inside that company better service levels that drive better retention of balances is the way to get both good credit results good yield and loan growth overtime which ultimately leads to profits.
Okay.
And then Mark is there are any tax benefits coming in the second-half and what’s good estimate for the effective tax rate in the second-half? I would use 37.5% as a good estimate for the effective tax rate in the second-half.
We always have as any large company does open matters before various taxing authorities and so the possibility always exists but I am not banking on any how about that.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And then our next question is going to come from Jason Arnold of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi good evening guys.
I was just curious if you could comment a little further on the competitive side.
Are you seeing any competitors doing anything for more aggressive rather or ordinary versus prior periods at all? I would say that different players are coming in and out in terms of aggressiveness.
The general trend in recent years is – there has been huge shift towards everyone focusing on rewards and in particular cash reward but that’s partly because it’s working consumers love it.
They’ve seen competitors see our success and want to get some of that if you will.
But that’s not – it’s not a new trend.
What we have seen is this year you know there’s one or two competitors that have picked-up their marketing intensity and there is one or two players that have actually reduced their marketing intensity on cash kind of rewards.
It is expensive to offer it is what we focus on and we focusing on delivering great value at affordable cost of the company which allows us to sustain it over the long-term.
And I think one of the things I’m really proud of is how well our top-line advertising is working.
Our consumer testing shows that we are getting some of the best results in years and our marketing campaigns are more effective for a given level of spend then our competitors so our commercials and sponsorships like the NHL are working harder for us and that is really helping.
Great.
Good to hear that.
And just one another unrelated item I know we are still somewhat early on but can you give us an update on the cash back checking product and how things are going there? Sure I mentioned you know we launched cash back checking last year in a limited cross-sell and what we told everyone at the Investor Day is that we really wanted to get our core banking system in place before we started to really scale that.
I mention that we put that in successfully during Memorial Day so we really feel good that it’s going in well and so we are just about a point that it will start ramping up but will be ramping up in a cross-sell manner.
We – there is a new system has allowed us some new capabilities to make it easier to offer to most of our current base and obviously with a large customer base that represents about a quarter of U.S.
household that will be the place that cross sell will be the most cost effective to expand it from this point.
We have not yet made a decision as to when we are going to launch beyond our current customer base.
It’s entirely possible that the rest of this year we are going to focus on and expand cross sell and it maybe next year before we go broad market but stay tuned for that.
Terrific thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And that our next question is going to come from Vincent Caintic out of Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi good evening.
On the gross interchange rate I’m calculating a 200 basis points rate for this quarter which is higher than it’s been at least since 2011 and despite the lower rewards expenses.
I was wondering if there is any one-time or kind of second quarter items there that we shouldn’t think about as a run-rate or this is a kind of good jump start for the rest of the year.
Yes I would say there is a couple of different things taking place there.
First of all as we did a re-class of certain merchant fees in the first quarter so a part of is being is reflective of that re-class that was done.
The second piece of the puzzle I would say is just the spend mix over the course of the quarter and the spending tilted more toward merchants with higher discount rates this quarter and a way for merchants who have lower discount rates.
So I would say that tends to move back and forth quarter year-over-year.
It feels like MDR is in a decent range at this point in time.
Got it it makes sense.
And follow-up actually on the lowering yield questions that were asked previously and I will take it through another track.
You mentioned with the card loan yield to start the lower interest charge-offs were a meaningful benefit to that.
So if you kind of a normalize with the credit being taken out of the equation do yield point towards a downward structure or how should we think about that? Thanks.
Yes all right.
I was just going to say if you take credit out of the equation yield feels pretty stable.
Just look at the ALM positioning we have had for the company we positioned ourselves to absorb the initial phases of rate shocks to our funding cost base.
We continue as I mentioned in my commentary in the margin we continue to push out our funding extending maturities fixing rates positioning ourselves for that so the funding cost component a yield feels pretty good.
The actual card yield itself feels pretty good the actual asset yield themselves feel pretty good the stated yield on the product.
So it’s really just the interest charge-offs that are the other piece of variability.
I would say if you exclude them feel very stable.
And remember that’s stable in the shorter-term we still think over the longer-term we would expect credit to normalize somewhat and then that would push the yields down closer to the levels that we have talked about in the past.
But that would come through the charge-off line as opposed to the stated yield in the asset or the funding.
Got it thanks very much guys.
You bet.
Thank you.
And that our next question is going to come from Sameer Gokhale out of Janney Capital.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Hi thanks.
You know a couple of questions I guess my first one was you mentioned one of the competitor who is growing faster than the market or at a decent clip and of course you are growing a pretty good clip in the card business and it looks like most of the larger card issuers really aren’t seeing that much growth on the year-over-year basis.
There is a one company Wells Fargo which is actually growing faster than even you are and of course they have a much smaller loan portfolio.
So what I am curious in getting your thoughts on is they’re growing faster than the industry faster than you are smaller portfolio but I was wondering how we should think about the competitive landscape as they continue to grow.
They seem to be taking more share away from your competitors but at some point I have to believe there is a trickle-down effect to the extend your competitors are forced to spend more marketing to defend share then you have to spend more.
So how should we think about that? Are you in such a different target market that really doesn’t affect you? Just your thoughts will be helpful? Yes I think that we’ve typically referred to the big six because that includes us because there has been such a big gap between the six of us and the next one.
We have increasingly started tracking Wells Fargo to a much greater degree.
They are growing faster by rate from a smaller base.
And I would expect that to continue.
And I think over time we may get to a point where we talk about the big seven as opposed to the big six.
That being said it’s branch-driven.
I think it’s probably a wider credit box than we have they are not national.
So we are not bumping up against them in national Internet and direct mail campaigns to as much degree.
We are not bumping in with them with national advertising the way we are with really most of the big six.
But still they will as they take share of the total market they will become more of a player.
So I expect that it’s likely to may be impact the other branch banks more because they are following that strategy.
But it will also have some competitive impact on us.
Okay.
That’s a very complete and helpful answer.
Thank you.
And then the other question I had was you answered the question about industry competition and growth in several different ways.
And I was wondering if you think that loan growth for the card industry will ever get to 5% plus level? I mean clearly you are there.
But you haven’t raised your target range.
But it seems like unless there is a significant pick up in personal incomes or something that makes consumers more optimistic about borrowing more and lenders more willing to lend I just can’t see that dynamic ever changing with industry growth overall exceeding 5%.
So I mean is that consistent with your view or do you feel that at some point we really could see the industry growth overall accelerate? And what would drive that? Well I think we could see some acceleration from the really non growth today that we are seeing.
I continue to believe that it will accelerate to be roughly in line with GDP.
And so low double-digits may be not 5%.
Even a couple of percent growth would be a meaningful change from where this industry has been.
And I think what’s driving that is I think the de-leveraging is largely complete with consumers and competitive changes in the market place.
And then I would expect credit card to grow more with the economy with incomes with retail sales.
And I don’t see – if you look at the times when the industry grew really fast historically it was when balance transfer was introduced or when credit was standard for reduced.
And I don’t see either of those trends happening to have a fundamental change going forward.
Okay.
Then it sounds like we’re on the same page.
So appreciate your perspective.
Thank you.
Great.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions at this time.
All right.
Thank you everyone.
As a reminder the Investor Relations team will be here this evening to answer any additional questions.
Have a good night.
Thank you all.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 earnings call.
My name is Adrian and I will be your operator for today's call.
(Operator Instructions).
I'll now turn call over to Bill Franklin.
Bill Franklin you may begin.
Thank you Adrian.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us.
Let me begin as always with slide 2 of our earnings presentation which is on the investor relations section of discover.com.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC today in an 8-K report and in our 10-K and 10-Qs which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the third quarter 2014 earnings materials we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call this afternoon will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question and answer session.
During the Q&amp;A period it would be very helpful if you limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up so we can make sure that everyone is accommodated.
So now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
I want to thank all of you for joining us on the call today.
After the market closed we reported third quarter net income of 644 million and earnings per share of $1.37 up 14% over the prior year driven primarily by profitable loan growth and share repurchases with a return on equity of 23%.
Our Direct Banking business continues to deliver solid results.
On slide 4 of the earnings presentation you'll see Discover achieved total loan growth of 7% over the prior year.
This was driven by strong growth in card personal loans and private student loans.
Card receivables grew 6.6% this quarter which is a rate that continues to outpace our peers and indicates that we are continuing to take share.
We’re driving this growth by adding new accounts and increasing wallet share with existing customers.
The overall value proposition of Discover it continues to resonate with customers as we achieved a double digit new account growth rate again in the third quarter.
We believe that the increase in wallet share and our continued low attrition both of which benefit card loan growth are held by our award recognized customer satisfaction.
In the quarter Discover tied for highest in customer satisfaction with credit card companies for 2014 according to J.D.
Power.
This is a first for Discover and demonstrates our continued focus on the customer is being recognized in the market place.
Discover received the highest rating in the area of customer interaction which focuses on how card members perceive the service received through key engagement channels such as website call centers automated phone system online chat e-mail and mobile phone.
Our continued enhancement of mobile and digital technology includes developments that allow users to view account information more conveniently for ease in activate cards with a single touch and our recent release of an app that makes us first credit card company or major bank that lets card members log into their accounts using fingerprint authorization.
These are just a few of the ways we continue to deploy innovative functionality for consumers.
Discover also ranked highly in the categories of credit card terms benefits and services problem resolution and rewards.
Along these lines later in our call Mark will give you some insight into how we’re thinking about further improving ease of rewards redemption for card members.
Card sales for the quarter increased 5.8% from the prior year.
More active accounts year-over-year driven by new accounts higher average spend per active reactivating existing accounts and very low attrition all contributed to growth beyond U.S.
retail sales.
Our second largest asset class private student loans grew 5% and when you look at the organic growth excluding the acquired portfolios we were able to achieve 23% growth year-over-year.
June July and August are peak season for student loan applications.
During peak season we experienced strong application growth of 11% over the prior year.
Although we were challenged a bit in the graduate student loan market due to previous price decreases on federal graduate student loans.
This was more than offset by the gains we made in undergraduate originations.
The increase in undergraduate originations was mostly the result of our increased marketing our in-school repayment product and the 1% rewards feature we added for good grade on new student loans.
Moving to our payment segment volume increased by 2%.
We shared earlier this year that we will be losing some third party volumes in network partners and at PULSE.
For example the Synchrony issued Sam's-Walmart card volume began running off this quarter as it transitioned to another network and we expect the majority of this volume to leave network partners results in the fourth quarter.
That said I believe that the value that Discover Network to our card issuing business has never been greater in terms of acceptance brand awareness and economics.
We mentioned at our financial community briefing earlier this year that we would be competing for all debit.
This quarter The American Bankers Association announced their endorsement of Discover Debit.
Historically banks had only two options for their signature debit cards.
We want to give them another option.
We believe our Discover Debit product can offer superior economics simplified rules fee transparency and similar acceptance.
Another item we discussed at our financial community briefing when we covered our key priorities was risk management.
The regulatory environment continues to be challenging and we like others in the industry are dedicating significant internal focus to regulatory and compliance initiatives.
Before I turn the call over to Mark through the details of third quarter performance let me say that I'm proud of our operating results great credit performance and our ability to continue to drive solid prime loan growth.
Mark? Thanks David.
I will begin my comments today by going through the revenue detail on slide 5 of our presentation.
Net interest income increased $129 million or 9% over the prior year due to continued loan growth and a higher net interest margin.
Total non-interest income was relatively flat at $552 million as several puts and takes within various line items essentially offset each other.
Specifically net discount and interchange revenue increased by $19 million or 7% year-over-year driven by higher Discover Card sales volume.
Protection product revenue continues to decline down $12 million year-over-year given our suspension of protection product sales in late 2012.
Partially offsetting this loan fee income was up $7 million.
Other revenue decreased $15 million mostly due to a prior reclassification of some merchant fees now recognized in discount and interchange revenue as well as lower mortgage related income.
Our rewards rate for the quarter was 103 basis points which was 5 basis points higher than last year due to an increase in standard rewards driven in part by higher Discover it sales.
Relative to the prior period the rewards rate was up 12 basis points a result of more 5% cash back bonus activity as the third quarter category was gasoline as well as lower forfeitures.
Following up on David's earlier comment I want to share some of our latest thinking on the rewards program and some potential impacts to the P&amp;L in the fourth quarter and beyond.
We've said for some time that we are focused on maintaining our strong position in a very competitive rewards environment.
And as I’ve mentioned at a recent conference we're currently revisiting our rewards program with a goal of delivering greater ease of redemption and eliminating most or all forfeiture triggers.
To that end we are contemplating a series of changes to the redemption elements of our rewards program.
While not yet finalized we estimate these changes could result in a onetime charge of up to 185 million in the fourth quarter due to the extinguishment of all or part of our current reserve for rewards forfeiture.
The ongoing run-rate impact of these contemplated changes should be very manageable somewhere less than five basis points per annum.
Continuing on slide 5 Payment Services revenue for the quarter was down slightly relative to the prior year but overall we grew total company revenues by 6% for the quarter driven by strong Direct Banking segment performance.
Turning to slide 6 total loan yield of 11.36% was up 7 basis points over the prior year driven by higher card and private student loan yields.
The modest year-over-year increase in card yield reflects a higher portion of balances coming from revolving customers and slightly lower interest charge-offs.
The year-over-year increase in private student loan yield relates to the PCI accounting favorability we began recognizing in the fourth quarter of 2013 which I discussed in more depth on last quarter's call.
Overall higher total loan yield combined with lower funding costs resulted in a 14 basis point increase in net interest margin over the prior year to 9.78%.
Sequentially net interest margin was down as card members took advantage of promotional offers which benefited loan growth.
Additionally we capitalized on the funding environment and issued two longer term deals in the quarter $1.2 billion a five year fixed rate ABS and $750 million of seven year fixed rate senior bank notes.
These deals suppressed some of the funding cost improvement we would have delivered had we done shorter term floating rate issuances.
However these longer term fixed rate deals are part of our funding strategy to extend duration at attractive pricing in order to position ourselves for a higher rate environment in the future.
Looking forward we expect modest sequential pressure as we continue to extend the duration of our funding and card yield continues to come down modestly.
Turning to slide 7 total operating expense increased by $44 million or 6% over the prior year.
The most significant driver of the increase was increased compensation and benefits associated with higher head count to support organizational growth and compliance initiatives.
We also invested in more marketing this year particularly in card and personal loans.
In addition we continue to enhance our technology which contributed to higher professional fees year-over-year partially offsetting these increases other expense was down due in part to several onetime items that in aggregate were worth about a penny of EPS.
For the quarter our total company efficiency ratio was 37.8%.
As we look forward the expense base will have a modest upward bias based on a number of factors including additional marketing spend regulatory and compliance staffing and technology enhancements.
All in we expect our 2015 efficiency ratio to be modestly above our 38% long term efficiency target.
Turning to provision for loan losses and credit on slide 8 provision for loan losses was higher by $21 million compared to the prior year.
The primary contributor was a $33 million increase in net charge-offs driven by loan growth and lower dollar recoveries.
I would remind you the recovery dollars are declining as the available inventory from previously charged-off loans diminishes and isn't refilling as quickly with new charged-off balances.
Partially offsetting higher net charge-offs was a $12 million lower reserve build compared to the prior year but reserves were up sequentially.
The credit card net charge-off rate was 2.16% up 11 basis points year-over-year and down 17 basis points sequentially.
The 30 plus day delinquency rate was 1.71% four basis points higher versus the prior year and up sequentially by eight basis points.
The private student loan net charge-off rate excluding purchase credit impaired loans was down 16 basis points sequentially to 1.14% due to seasonality related to lower charge-offs and higher disbursements in the third quarter.
The 30 plus day delinquency rate increased by 12 basis points to 1.78% as the organic book continues to come into repayment.
Overall the student loan portfolio continues to season generally in-lines with our expectations.
Switching to personal loans the net charge-off rate was down three basis points sequentially to 1.92% and the over 30 day delinquency rate was up nine basis points to 75 basis points.
Across all of our portfolios we remain pleased with our strong credit results.
However we do believe our loan growth over the last several years places us on a reserve build trajectory.
One last item I would call out on the income statement is that during the quarter we were able to recognize certain prior year tax benefits which reduced our effective tax rate to 36.2% for the quarter.
Next I will touch on our capital position on slide 9.
You'll note that in addition to our traditional Basel I view we've added a new ratio an estimated common equity Tier 1 capital ratio.
This new line item assumes fully phased in Basel III requirements and stands at 14.7% roughly in-lines with our Basel I Tier 1 common ratio of 14.8%.
During the quarter we repurchased 622 million of stock an accelerated pace from the second quarter as we made up for lower buy backs in the prior period.
One of our top priorities is to drive shareholder value through effective capital management.
To that end we still plan to repurchase a total of $1.06 billion of common stock for the four quarter period ending March 31 2015 the same amount as our CCAR capital action submitted to the Fed.
Also on slide 9 is our outlook for the remainder of 2014.
As we look to the fourth quarter we expect NIM to be down slightly as we continue to extend funding duration in this low rate environment and also look to continue to drive card loan growth.
With respect to rewards the fourth quarter will reflect a broad 5% category for holiday shopping.
However we still believe the full year will be consistent with our comments last quarter likely coming in a couple basis points north of 1% excluding any potential redemption changes.
That concludes our formal remarks.
So now I will turn the call back to our operator Adrian to begin the Q&amp;A session.
I want to ask about kind of competitive intensity around card rewards.
I appreciate you get this question in different forms almost every quarter.
The reason I'm asking is we're starting to see some offers that just cause you to scratch your head on how the economics work for the issuer.
Without naming anyone in particular I'll just reference the double cash rewards offer where you've got effectively 2% back from an issuer that's basically only collecting probably 2% of discount rate.
The question David is how much longer do you think we can see offers like this? In your experience when an issuer tends to over shoot with an offer that seems overly aggressive how quickly can you see a response of them kind of dialing that back? Well I actually think that there has been more stability and competitive intensity than one might think.
This has been an intense -- specifically rewards and cash back has been intensely competitive for many years and this is not the first time that we've seen issuers come out with what might look to some of us to be unsustainable.
My experience is they don't dial them back real quickly but after two or three years they start seeing the profit numbers not hitting hurdles and then they'll dial them back.
I would also say and in fact in recent quarters we've seen some issuers actually dial back earlier rich programs.
So that's been a history in the industry.
The other thing I'd say is that I wouldn't over focus on one measure.
Clearly rewards are very important but service features – there is a lot of other things that are very important to customers.
And so you don't have -- if people don't have the full package like Discover it we think it's got a great rewards but a lot of other things.
The full package still continues to be more resilient than just having one headline number that you're competing with.
Mark on your comment about the modestly above 38% on the efficiency ratio can you just maybe give us a little bit more context help us understand what assumptions are going into that? What are we assuming for interest rates? What type of loan growth? How do we think about trajectory of the expense base that got you to that above 38%? Yes there is a bunch in that Ryan and I will try and tackle the ones that really hit the 38% number specifically.
I would say there is a couple different things.
First of all is we'll be looking at a couple of onetime expenses coming at us next year such as roll-out of EMV and then I think we're also facing a number of expenses that the entire industry is facing that David eluded to really additional compliance and regulatory functions and meeting significantly higher expectations obviously is going to be driving some of that as well.
We do continue to invest in our technology infrastructure with a principal focus around digital but it's broad based investing that's taking place as well.
So those would be the really key drivers of the elements that I see taking our expenses higher as I look into next year.
And then you noted in the release that continued growth would drive reserve actions I guess.
Should we expect to see a change in the pace in which you're adding to reserves then? Is it fair to assume that you’re starting to see some higher credit losses in the more recent vintages that is driving this comment or is it just that it's a function of growth? I think Ryan it's really a function of growth.
I think the key thing to bear in mind is the vintages are generally seasoning in line with our expectations.
But I would also point out that we're coming into the period of time now or if you think about peak losses occurring on a card book somewhere generally between 18 months and 30 months after origination of a vintage.
We've got several larger vintages as a result of the growth we've come up over the course of the last couple years coming into the seasoning mode.
So continuing again generally to season in-line with our expectations but as the larger vintages come through it will have a modestly larger impact on the overall totals.
I've got a couple questions just back to the efficiency ratio guidance I was just wondering how much flexibility there might be to the extent that other metrics don't go as planned? I mean how much discretion do you have over some of the expenses that you mentioned or other expenses in case the provision goes up more than you expect it to? And then secondly just David in terms of the above industry average growth that you're seeing how long do you think that persists given the current competitive environment? Thank you.
So Sanjay I'll tackle expense one and then I'll pass things over to David.
I would say there is definitely expense leverage in the model that we can avail ourselves of if we feel we need to go down that path.
What I would say is we're continuing to drive very strong growth at this point in time and feel good that our ability in the near term to keep doing that.
So it doesn't feel like the time you would want to be pulling back on those levers all right.
So that's why I think we're kind of indicating we expect to see some increased expenses next year because we're choosing to keep those engines running to keep that production coming online at this point in time.
David? And Sanjay on the growth I think we're very pleased that again we performed well above the targeted range that we had laid out a few years back.
And I think one of the things that's happening -- well two things are happening.
One is we're seeing good results from Discover it the new features free FICO security things that we're putting in place our advertising and I think we're starting to get an industry that is maybe showing a little more signs of modest growth.
We've been growing despite a shrinking industry.
And so I think that if the industry itself picks up a little bit then that obviously would be helpful for our ability to continue to grow as robustly as we are as we have been the last two quarters certainly.
So probably early next year we'll be actually revisiting and trying to make a decision do we stick with that original guidance that we gave a few years back or do we change it and the industry and our results will be informative in that decision.
Mark I had a question on the calculus of growth driven reserve building.
So let's say that we remain in an environment where A there is no evidence of credit deterioration and B you continue to grow loans.
If we hold everything else constant to isolate the impact how do you think about the interplay between the tailwind that you get from the additional interest income that you generate on your loan growth and the headwind from higher provision expense associated with the need to build reserves on a growing book? Just factually speaking what's the math of netting those pieces together in terms of the impact on EPS growth? That's a really big question that can have an awful lot of calculus impacting both ends of that equation so how about if I just tell you about the pieces of the puzzle that go into each of them? Because we don't provide EPS guidance I will stay away from the specific correlation between the two.
I guess what I would say is that provisioning itself as I said earlier and as you noted in your question it's really going to be dictated going forward by loan growth.
The seasoning of the new vintages some of the vintages that are coming through are slightly larger than some of the vintages that we've seen before.
So that will -- again they're seasoning generally in-line with our expectations but the vintages themselves are slightly larger.
The other things that go into the calculus on that side of the equation really are going to be recoveries right? What is the trajectory at which we continue to realize recoveries off that declining pool but nevertheless still out there of crisis period charge-offs? I would say the economic environment comes into it bankruptcy filings come into it.
So I think there is a lot of different things.
I think our comments are really kind of directed at helping you kind of get the fact that the larger vintages are starting to mature.
So we do believe that growth will drive incremental provisioning expense but again I would underscore we don't see any fundamental changes in the economic environment at this point in time.
On the net interest income side again a lot of things taking place there because it depends on the components of growth right? Are you bringing in lower priced tiers of new accounts? Higher priced tiers of new accounts? Is there a level of promotional activity taking place? What are you doing with your funding costs both in terms of the market rate environment as well as what levers are that we're pulling right now to fix costs and extend duration on our funding right? As I said in my prepared comments we're purposely taking our funding costs slightly higher so that we perform better in a rising rate environment locking those in for long periods of time for tranches of the funding.
So there is a whole bunch of pieces of the puzzle that go into that that aren't necessarily inter-related but those are the basic levers.
Okay and on a related note regarding your reserving methodology.
Let’s say that you’re 100% correct in estimating your allowance today does that mean that the sum of your net charge-offs for the 12 months would total your current period allowance? It would be forward looking.
I am trying to process the question.
Yes I mean I guess if it's different so I mean I guess to the extent that the sum of your charge-offs over the next 12 months is the driver of what your reserve is and you could have -- and you’re 100% correct in estimating what those next 12 month charge-offs are going to be is that what your reserve is today? Or if it's different then why would it be different? Generally speaking yes there is a couple little puts and takes around the edges but for the sake of simplistic answer to the question yes that would be correct.
And we reserve for interest charge-offs as well Bill unless some of our competitors don’t have it going through that allowance line.
Okay.
So then the related part of that -- then as if we look historically at that relationship between what your actual next 12 month charge-offs have been and your allowance any differences between the two would essentially be attribute to kind of like misestimation because intend all along would be to set the allowance equal to what you expect that next 12 months charge-offs to be? I would say the mathematical answer to that question is yes.
I would also point out to you though that in the history of mankind other than playing dumb luck I don’t think anybody has ever nailed their reserve.
A couple of my questions already got taken but just wondering if you can comment on your thoughts on Apple Pay and any other mobile payment initiatives you are undertaking? Thanks.
Well I would say that we're excited about that potential prospect of mobile payments generally.
I think that it's likely mobile payments are likely to -- well we've been hoping they took off faster.
It always seemed to take a little longer than you would like but I think mobile payments has their prospect to have more going into our cards as opposed to cash and check to add more features and functionality to consumers and their purchasing which I think is good for customers and good for our industry.
So just generically we're excited about the various mobile efforts in the industry and there is obviously a number of them going on right now.
I guess maybe a follow-up on that question if you could.
Do you expect to be in the Apple Pay? How successful do you think the Apple Pay product will be and what differentiates it from other things that are out there? Was Discover's relationship with PayPal a reason why Discover is not initially in Apple Pay and how is your relationship with -- what are your expectations for that relationship with PayPal now that they're spinning off? Well look I wouldn't want to talk specifically about any of our relationships.
We have a lot of important relationships and one of our strategies is to be a great partner to a bunch of people.
And I would say that we certainly do expect to be participating in Apple Pay.
We don't know when that will be but we'll be actively working to be included over time.
Okay.
Then let me just ask about your consumer loan business I guess.
The growth rate there is still continues to be very strong but it has slowed down a little bit.
The yield has come in a little bit on that product.
Are you seeing more competition? And if so are you seeing any competition from peer-to-peer? Or is it from other banks that are looking at that market as being very attractive? And do you think you can continue to grow that business at rates somewhere near where you have been recently? Yes Bob it's Mark.
I will start with that and then pass to David with respect to the yield question on the personal loan business.
It's come down slightly as more of the recent vintages really are coming in with shorter durations at origination than they had historically.
Remember these are fixed rate products so as they are on a shorter duration the yields are going to be a little bit lower.
So you get lower yields but you also from an asset liability management perspective as we look forward to a rising rate environment there is benefit to that fixed rate product being shortened up a bit as well.
And respect to the performance to business I will pass to David for that part.
I would say there is certainly more competition in that business than there was but I would say that we’re also participating a little more broadly than we were.
We mentioned at our Investor Day that we previously did not even consider people that responded -- we had to give an invitation to apply to even be considered for Discover personal loan and we have started testing into unsolicited applications although we still are very much -- we have very strict credit criteria to manage the credit well.
So I think that percentage growth rates in that business may decline a little bit but the dollars I think have continued -- of growth have continued to be very strong that business is now much larger than it was for us a few years ago.
So we’re growing off of a lower base but we're still you know -- our business is growing north of 20% a year.
I'm very happy with the growth rates while managing the credit and the yield.
Who is the competition? Are you seeing incremental competition there? Well you mention the P-to-P.
They started P-to-P I don't think they really are anymore but there are some very fast growing and very aggressive kind of non-traditional bank players and some of the more traditional banks are also perking up a bit in this space.
But generally you know I think the last two or three years we think we have been the number one originator of personal loans in the country and we continue to be a very -- it continues to be a very good business for us.
David I just want to ask broadly on the consumer.
I just wanted to clarify are you seeing any type pickup in appetite for consumer credit? And if so are you noticing any differential between up and down the credit spectrum and you know are there any -- we have seen a lot of the health at least on the spend side it's been the affluent and trying to get a sense if you are seeing a broadening out or just a general update? As I’ve mentioned before I’ve seen a little bit of a pickup in industry loans and I don't think I am seeing anything real dramatic but I would say the more middle class consumer is typically more likely to revolve some or all of their products and I think what we're seeing is a little bit more confidence by the consumer to revolve some of their debt.
And so I think that's leading to a percent or two faster growth rate for the industry.
Okay and then Mark on capital I was just curious if you think you will ultimately need some more preferred as you get into 2016.
I know that’s further out but just want to get an update given what we saw at American Express.
Yes we did issue about 575 million back in late 2012 because we only had common equity in our capital structure any significant degree.
We didn't include a preferred issuance in our 2014 CCAR and we are still in the planning phases at this point in time obviously for the 2015 CCAR.
So I can't comment on it specifically at this point in time although I would just begin reiterate what we've said before and that is our goal in that CCAR process is to have a prudently aggressive ask because we fully recognize that our shareholders would like some more capital returns.
We talked a lot about competition and the rewards space particularly in the prime revolvers.
How quickly does that extend into pricing and then subsequently terms and conditions? Are you talking David about APR competition? Right for spreads and just underlying maybe folks moving down the credit spectrum a little more.
Well I would say I've seen a fair amount of stability in both pricing and credit aggressiveness.
I'm not seeing with very rare exceptions I'm not seeing people get back into subprime credit cards and I think that the pricing has been pretty stable for the industry in part because people you know (indiscernible) people know that the price they have to set they have to live with for potentially 10 - 20 years and so I think people are being careful to have an adequate spread.
I would also say there has been some consolidation of the industry and the people that are left are probably not going to underprice and I think historically there were some that underpriced and then came back with price increases afterwards.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on the higher efficiency ratio target for 2015 how much of that would be a build and marketing spend? It wasn't really mentioned.
Kind of where are the different areas that you will be investing in marketing? Will it be broad based the launch of checking maybe some new products and how sticky are these compliance and regulatory costs as maybe the new run-rate going forward? Yes I would say we aren't prepared yet to quite break down the components of that growth for next year.
I think we just kind of put them into those broad categories and aren't going to attribute them yet.
But I guess without reference to specific numbers what I would say is I think we continue to see great new account acquisition numbers and good loan growth so I think some continued investment in the marketing space additional investment in the marketing space is clearly going to make sense both in the card space as well as for certain other products.
The regulatory expenses David I would tell you bluntly are sticky all right? I mean I think there is a new higher level of expectation to which the whole industry is being held.
I don't think this is unique to us in terms of what you're hearing on this front.
It's really across the industry that there are much much higher regulation and compliance expectations and those drive costs.
So I would say those are going to be sticky costs going forward.
I mean there is a lot of talk about more competitive environment and marketing spending and alike can you just talk about the trajectory of costs to put accounts on the books because I mean that’s been a key competitive advantage of yours in terms of your account acquisition cost.
Moshe I would say that's been relatively stable for us.
I think that we've continued to move more and more to online verses the traditional direct mail and if you do that well that can be a cost savings.
I also think that we have invested very heavily in having a differentiated product that appeals more to consumers has a better pull rate.
So we're continuing to basically make our product more and more appealing so that it's not just pricing as I mentioned before.
It's service it's brand perceptions it's a lot of work to create more differentiation and that is helping us to I think sustain an average cost per account that you know might otherwise be under pressure if we didn't do any of those things and just watched the competition come back into the market.
And just as a kind of follow-up you know the change that you're making in terms of the rewards forfeiture rewards should we think about that cost as somewhat additive as we go -- as we think about the level of rewards expense or is that kind of baked into the numbers that you talked about? There is two component pieces there.
The 185 million is a onetime charge to basically extinguish the reserve that's set up on the balance sheet now that's been built-up over a number of years.
The five basis point run-rate expense yes I think you should think that as a marginal increase in the rewards cost.
It probably won't be quite that high.
I think I said it will be up to five basis points or somewhat less than five basis points I think is exactly what I said.
Depending upon component parts and pieces we choose so it's going to be very manageable.
Just on I guess oil prices if they continue to tread lower or stay down here does that have impact on spend volume? And then I guess no one has touched on the private [ph] student lending that appears to be flattish just didn't know what was going over there and then maybe if you could just comment on the home lending segment where you are -- it seems like margins are starting to turn there and kind of better volume here in the back half of the year into '15? Well certainly gas prices all other things equal will depress a bit the sales gain because order of magnitude about 10% of credit card sales tend to be gas prices.
So you can kind of multiply through and figure out what the impact is on total sales as gas prices go up or down.
The knock on effect is that if people are paying less on gas then it tends to be somewhat helpful for credit.
People may have more discretionary spend to put into other items besides gas.
So there may be some off sets but all other things equal it does suppress sales a little bit if gas prices are down.
In terms of student loans as I mentioned I'm very pleased with the growth that we achieved.
You know we always do report both on the organic portfolio and the acquired portfolio and so obviously the acquired portfolio which was sizeable when we purchased it will continue to paydown as those students finish paying their loans in full and so if you look at the organic growth portfolio you know we were up by more than 20% year-over-year.
So that's quite healthy growth.
Just real quickly any update on the home mortgage segment? Home mortgage continues to be a challenge.
I think we had -- you know it is slightly suppressing our overall earnings you know maybe a penny a quarter.
So it's not a big driver of our bottom line.
It was never a big positive either but the combination of a difficult business environment and a difficult regulatory requirements make that business challenging.
I don't see either of those factors changing any time real soon.
You’re still strongly committed to growing that? I mean could you look at possibly acquisitions? I mean is that something you still feel strongly about when you got into it? I would say that we’re still figuring that out.
I think that if you look back from -- we would have expected from the time we bought it four years ago to today we would have expected it to be you know further along but there has been a lot of changes regulatory market etcetera since that time.
So we are looking at options of what more do we need to do to make it more significant and a contributor.
Can you just talk about the -- is there a business benefit from eliminating that forfeiture reserve? Can they have lower attrition rates higher customer satisfaction? We think that there is a business benefit that's why we would be doing it.
I think that one of the -- as we research rewards customers are pretty focused on an easy and good redemption process.
It gives them more confidence since they earn these rewards that they know they're going to be able to actually redeem it.
And historically our breakage was a much bigger savings if you will for the company.
But between our card attrition which has come down to extraordinarily low levels our delinquency rates which have come down to extraordinarily low levels.
The ease of which we have given people -- we have made it so much easier to redeem through for instance Amazon Instant in any amount so the breakage has come down to well below -- has come down to five basis points or lower which means we have to kind of say well could we cost effectively satisfy customers even more? And we would expect that both attracting new customers to our franchise as well as not losing customers and getting more wallet share that it wouldn't take much movement in any of those levers to offset five basis points of higher cost.
Okay and then just update us on the rewards checking and rewards for that when they become meaningful show up in same reward line as card rewards? Yes they would.
Are they meaningful yet? No they are not meaningful at this point.
My question also relates to what many of the questions are getting at as it relates to rising rewards cost and some of the other competitive dynamic that's playing out.
I guess many financial institutions have suggested that they're willing to erode margins cannibalize margins in order to improve customer loyalty and growth and as you have noted yourself you’re seeing a pickup in that growth.
I guess I'm wondering at what or how much are you willing to essentially erode your own margins in order to stay on the growth trajectory that you're on? You're operating well above the ROA hurdle so some of the concern is that this business could quickly become a race to the bottom in terms of pricing competition not on APRs but in terms of rewards cost.
I'm just trying to get a better sense as to how you think that the margin dynamic the ROA dynamic plays out? How far are you willing to go in order to maintain your growth trajectory? Well I would say generally we are seeing people copy us.
I mean people don't have the loyalty that we have.
Historically people were not as focused on rewards as we've been.
So I think when you look at competitors the big switch is they have moved their marketing from a mix of rewards and non-rewards to now almost all rewards and that would erode their margins whereas we have certainly invested more in cash back bonus [ph] you know a number of years ago we were closer to 80 basis points we’re now a bit north of 100 basis points of rewards cost.
We have put in place the 5% program.
We've got merchant funded rewards which doesn't hit our bottom line but benefits customers.
As Mark mentioned we’re considering reducing breakage which drives up costs but also satisfaction but we’re being very careful do it in a levered and sustainable way so that we never get in the position of having to devalue rewards the way many of our competitors have over time.
I think you know the best fact that I can point to to kind of underscore what David is talking about is if you look at year-over-year growth in receivables in the card space by far the largest component of that was just regular way spending all right? So as people building receivables the old fashioned way going out and using their Discover Card.
So it doesn't feel like we're faced with anything like that kind of a decision at this point.
I guess as you kind of look out I mean your success has been tremendous in many respects and you have pointed out a number of those.
I guess it feels like the competition has maybe awoken to some of what's going on and I guess I am trying to understand if there is a backdrop for them to essentially become more competitive to the point where you all just are willing to see some of the growth that's maybe out there otherwise.
I would say they woke up 10 years ago.
I mean before that we were pretty much the only game in town on cash rewards and now everyone has one or multiple cash programs and so I'm not seeing any kind of inflexion point at this point.
I just think that we’re -- I think this very competitive rewards competition is not going to go away.
It's the new normal but it has been for quite some time.
I wanted to ask on the strategy you’ve had well certainly in the third quarter than in prior quarters also have -- of basically trading call it a little bit of NIM for extended maturities is that a strategy we can expect you to continue assuming market conditions remain opportunistic? Yes I think that absolutely is a strategy you would expect to see us continue.
I think we’re just being realists in looking and saying in the future we are not smart enough to tell you exactly when rates change but we are pretty confident there is really only one direction they can go and a balance sheet is a dynamic thing and continuing to take the right actions as inflows [ph] to make sure we are positioned from an asset liability management and earnings standpoint the best we can.
Yes we'll sacrifice some current margin right now to make sure we got that right.
Just a couple questions going back to that $185 million charge and some of your commentary David about I think you referenced the five basis points number as the forfeiture rate currently and if I heard you correctly I think you had attributed part of the decline in the forfeiture rate to improvements in credit quality as fewer charge-offs and so you have more redemptions.
But if you assume that right now we’re at a kind of a trough in terms of charge-offs and then charge-offs while relatively stable are likely to only move higher compared to where they're at now why eliminate all of that reserve now? Why not wait a little bit to see how that plays out? I mean I'm just curious about -- and again I think Mark I heard you say that all of that $185 million was just eliminating all of that forfeiture reserve.
Yes so a couple things just to level set you before David answers there Sameer what we said as we could do up to the 185.
The 185 would be eliminating all of the forfeiture reserve.
The other thing I would say is that you know we're considering a number of different pieces and there is still a few decisions to be made around that but we wanted to guide you towards you know what it could be.
And then I think the other piece of the puzzle is the five basis points you're referencing.
That is the ongoing incremental costs we will incur on our rewards rate as a result of having done that.
It's not our current forfeiture rate.
And it will actually be somewhat less than that five I think we kind of hung five out there and said it would be somewhat less than that.
We think we can manage that down a little bit.
So there will be some incremental impact but probably not that full five.
So that’s just to align all the math there and now I will pass it over to David.
Yes and I would say that we -- while I accept the point that delinquencies are at a low point likely now we don't expect them to go back to what they were for the industry or for us you know five years plus ago.
And other than that the changes in terms of our loyalty rate as well as the changes that we've put in place like the Amazon redemption are more structural changes that we've put in place and we don’t -- if anything we would expect breakage to become less and less as we try to replicate the success of things like Amazon maybe with some other people.
So I don't think that the five basis points is suddenly going to grow to some you know higher number.
I think it would be a modest cost for an anticipated good marketing and customer gain.
Okay.
And then you know on a different note you know just going back to your funding mix and deposits you may have talked a few quarters ago but if you could refresh my memory when you look at the direct-to-consumer verses broker deposits you know broker deposits have been growing -- direct-to-consumer deposits have been relatively flat and of course DTC [ph] seems to be more economical for you brokerage a little more expensive.
So how do you think about that mix going forward and perhaps emphasizing direct-to-consumer more again or should we expect broker to continue to grow as a channel? I would say as an organization we would always have a decided preference for the direct-to-consumer because it comes with a customer relationship and that gives us opportunities to cross sell and more effectively serve them.
If you look at the component parts and pieces the direct-to-consumer business -- we built up pretty quickly in the crisis right and we built it by being a rate payer.
Over the course of the last 3 to 4 years we’ve gone through a very purposeful exercise to basically reposition ourselves in the rate tables and shake out what I would call our retail capital market depositors sitting in the DTC space.
That’s been a big part of what's driven our asset sensitivity we currently have on the balance sheet.
So while DTC looks flat over the course of the last couple years if you looked at components you would actually see good solid top line growth that isn't quite so rate driven and attrition of the folks with a beta of one or greater out of that book.
The DTC look it's a cost effective way for us to get some duration in the market place pretty effectively and pretty easily.
Brokered.
Excuse me the brokered.
Thank you David.
I appreciate that.
It's a cost effective way for us to get some duration in the market place.
And the other thing is we tend to use it as we head into the holiday season as we ramp up and see seasonality in the book as well because it's easy to flex up and then run back off after that period of time also.
So we use it both for duration and we also use it for short term needs.
So at what point do you think you will have that attrition done in the DTC deposit base of the folks with betas more than one? I think it's an ongoing process right because a bunch of that book historically was CDs.
So as those maturities occur and I think you get our CD maturity schedule in our Annual Investor Day packet you can look back on that one and kind of see what the maturities were coming at us and that will give you a good way to approximate what that rotation looks like.
Thanks Adrian.
And thank you everyone for joining us.
As a reminder the Investor Relations team will be here this evening to answer any more questions that you have.
Everyone have a goodnight.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Q4 2014 Discover Financial Services Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Leslie and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions].
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Bill Franklin.
Mr.
Franklin you may begin.
Thank you Leslie.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us.
Let me begin as always with slide 2 of our earnings presentation which is on the Investor Relations section of discover.com.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report and in our 10-K and 10-Qs which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the fourth quarter 2014 earnings materials we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call this afternoon will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
During the Q&amp;A period it would be very helpful if you limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up so we can make sure that everyone is accommodated.
So now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Starting on slide 3 of the earnings presentation we reported fourth quarter net income of $404 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.87 after some one-time charges in the quarter.
Excluding these charges adjusted net income was $553 million or $1.19 of adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Mark will cover the details of the charges later but the largest was the previously announced $178 million elimination of our credit card Rewards forfeiture reserve.
We think the changes that we decided to make in our rewards program that resulted in this charge will be beneficial to our business and we are receiving favorable feedback from our card members.
Our business model continues to deliver solid results.
Turning to slide 4 Discover achieved total loan growth of 6% over the prior year.
This was driven by strong growth in card and personal loans.
Card receivables grew 6% this quarter.
This growth is the result of the continuing success of Discover it driving new accounts and increasing wallet share with existing customers.
Our focus on the prime revolver segment is working as evidenced by relative yield stability and profitable loan growth.
Card sales for the quarter increased 5% from the prior year.
Lower gas prices brought down the sales growth by roughly 1%.
Private student loans grew 4% and when you look at the organic growth excluding the acquired portfolios we achieved 22% growth year-over-year.
Personal loans surpassed $5 billion in receivables up 19% from the prior year.
On the right side of slide 4 payments volume in total was up 2%.
PULSE volume increased 4% from the prior year.
Network Partners volume declined 13% due to the previously announced loss of volume from a third-party issuer.
This runoff in Network Partners volume was partially offset by growing AribaPay volume however this volume is at a substantially lower margin.
Diners volume increased 2% but was up high single digits year-over-year on a real basis excluding FX.
This was driven by strong volume growth in Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
Turning to slide 5 as we look back on 2014 our first priority was to grow Discover card loan share while maintaining leading credit performance.
We grew card receivables by 6% a pace that was meaningfully faster than the industry.
The new accounts we originated are more active which speaks to the features and benefits of Discover it.
We have made investments in customer experience and rewards and across all channels a card member may choose to access their account whether it is on a desktop a tablet or a mobile phone.
In 2014 Discover received the highest rating in the area of customer interaction and tied for highest total customer satisfaction with credit card companies according to J.D.
Power.
In addition we launched a new rewards site Discover Deals which provides card members with valuable offers and provides retailers with a low-cost highly targeted marketing platform.
I'm also very proud that our 2.3% card net charge-off rate is one of the lowest in the industry.
We grew our non-card loans by originating $1.2 billion of private student loans and almost $3 billion of personal loans.
Private student and personal loans combined drove non-card receivables growth of approximately 10% at the top end of our long-term target of 5% to 10%.
In payments we lost some third-party volume and Network Partners and the competitive landscape in debit remains challenging.
However our global acceptance and reach of the Discover network is larger than it has ever been.
Also the Discover network continues to provide significant benefits to our card issuing business.
In emerging payments we are very pleased with the early results at the launch of AribaPay which generated $1.5 billion in volume in the fourth quarter.
In terms of progress against optimizing our funding costs we have continued to extend the duration of our funding by issuing longer term fixed rate debt and we took actions which we believe will make our deposits stickier when rates rise.
In regards to optimizing our capital position we repurchased 5% of our shares while also increasing our dividend.
Lastly we continue to enhance our operating model with our successful implementation of the deposit component of our core banking platform.
Additionally we continue to strengthen our compliance and controls infrastructure which will remain a focus in 2015.
We will discuss our other 2015 priorities later this year at our financial community briefing but one preview I'll give you is that we plan on launching a new card product early this year.
As we look back on 2014 we feel very good about how we executed on these priorities.
We delivered net income for the year of $2.3 billion or $2.5 billion adjusted for the non-recurring charges in the fourth quarter and we achieved an ROE of over 20%.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark to discuss the details of our fourth quarter results.
Thanks David.
Good evening everyone.
I'll start with the revenue detail on slide 6 of our presentation.
Net interest income increased $103 million or 7% over the prior-year due to continued strong loan growth.
Total non-interest income was down $195 million due largely to the previously announced $178 million one-time charge related to the elimination of the Rewards forfeiture reserve.
Research we conducted showed that rewards that are easier to redeem and never expire are as valuable to a customer as a higher earn rate.
Our adjusted Rewards rate excluding the charge was 10 basis points higher than last year primarily due to a broader 5% cash back program in the quarter which included both online and department store sales.
Protection product revenue continues to decline down $9 million year-over-year given our suspension of sales in late 2012.
Other revenue decreased $11 million primarily due to the reclassification of some merchant fees that we previously discussed several quarters ago.
This is the last quarter where this reclassification will impact year-over-year comparisons.
Continuing on slide 6 Payment Services revenue was down $6 million for the quarter primarily due to the loss of the Sam's and Walmart co-brand volume and Network Partners.
The transition is now largely completed but will impact comparisons next year.
This combined with the continuing competitive challenges at PULSE and the cost of a lawsuit filed by PULSE against a competitor to address these issues will result in a decrease in profits for our payment segment in 2015.
Turning to slide 7 total loan yield of 11.4% was up 2 basis points over the prior year.
The slightly higher loan yield was more than offset by higher funding costs which drove a 5 basis point decline in net interest margin over the prior year to 9.76%.
Our cost of funds has increased as we've issued more long-term fixed rate debt over the last year.
In addition we're no longer seeing the same level of benefit from the maturity of CDs priced at rates considerably above those in the market today.
These had been creating a meaningful funding cost tailwind in the last few years but this opportunity has now largely played out.
Turning to slide 8 total operating expense increased by $94 million or 11% over the prior year including $48 million in non-recurring items.
One of the non-recurring items was the $27 million impairment of goodwill realized with the Discover Home Loans acquisition.
We have not diversified beyond refinance volume into purchase money originations in a meaningful way and therefore we aren't driving a level of originations that we expected.
Going forward we'll continue to evaluate our home loan strategy.
The other non-recurring item in other expense was the $21 million mark to fair value related to Diners Club Italy.
We acquired DC Italy to support acceptance in the region in June of 2013 but as we've consistently said it's not part of our strategy to own this franchise long-term.
We're now actively engaged in a sales process which is why it has been classified as held for sale.
The three other key drivers of the increase in expenses year-over-year were additional marketing this quarter particularly in card and personal loans to drive new accounts higher professional fees related to investments in web and mobile and higher employee compensation.
Turning to provision for loan losses and credit on slide 9 provision for loan losses was higher by $103 million including a $52 million higher reserve build compared to the prior year.
Net charge-offs increased by $51 million driven primarily by loan growth and to a lesser degree lower dollar recoveries on aged charge-offs.
The credit card net charge-off rate was 2.26% up 17 basis points year-over-year and up 10 basis points sequentially.
The 30-plus day delinquency rate was relatively flat at 1.73%.
The private student loan net charge-off rate excluding purchased credit impaired loans was relatively flat year-over-year at 1.4%.
The 30-plus day delinquency rate increased by 14 basis points over the prior year to 1.8% as the organic book continues to enter repayment.
Switching to personal loans the net charge-off rate was up 20 basis points year-over-year to 2.2% due to the seasoning of growth.
And the over 30-day delinquency rate was up 9 basis points to 79 basis points.
Across all of our portfolios we remain pleased with our strong credit results.
Next I'll touch on our capital position on slide 10.
Our Tier 1 common equity ratio was 14.1%.
The sequential decrease in our capital ratios was driven by seasonal loan growth as well as continued capital deployment.
We repurchased $400 million of stock in the quarter.
To complete the $1.6 billion dollars of repurchases we submitted as part of last year's CCAR capital actions we plan to buyback approximately $400 million worth of stock in the first quarter as well.
Moving to 2015 guidance on slide 11 since our annual financial community briefing will be somewhat later this year we felt it appropriate to provide some select guidance for 2015.
We expect revenue margin to decline modestly from 12.9% this year.
There are four main drivers of this compression.
First we expect modest NIM compression driven by increasing funding costs as well as a small decline in asset yields.
Second we anticipate protection product revenue will continue to decline.
Third we anticipate a Rewards rate of approximately 105 basis points in 2015 and the fourth driver is the lower payments revenue I discussed earlier.
Moving down the list to provisions we expect the provision for loan loss rate to increase from 2.2% for 2014 to approximately 2.5% for 2015.
As we've been telegraphing this expectation is primarily driven by the seasoning of several years of consistent loan growth as opposed to a fundamental deterioration in credit.
With respect to operating expenses we previously stated that we expect our efficiency ratio to be modestly above our 38% long-term target next year.
The increase in operating expenses will be driven by higher marketing investments higher regulatory and compliance costs including those related to remediation of our AML/BSA program consent order and the impact of increased technology investments.
In conclusion our outlook for 2015 reflects an end to the declining credit and funding costs that we've enjoyed in recent years as well as some increased regulatory and compliance expenditures.
However most of the fundamental operating trends of the business remain very solid.
That concludes our formal remarks so now I'll turn the call back to our operator Leslie to begin the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions].
We have Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Please go ahead.
So two questions first I was wondering Mark if you could just dimensionalize how much of a decline you're talking about in the revenue margin when you say modest? Maybe you could just give us some rough sense of that.
And then secondly one for David maybe you could talk about the competitive environment and what you're seeing in terms of yields? Thanks.
Yes.
So Sanjay we finished the year with a revenue margin of about 12.9%.
We don't give specific EPS oriented guidance so I'm going to be a little bit probably less specific than you would like me to be but I can help you at least qualitatively dimension this a little bit.
The biggest component of it's going to be a little bit of NIM compression.
Again I think we've consistently been describing that as modest NIM compression and we purposely chose to include the phrase modest in the release again this year.
So I wouldn't think about this as a 50 basis point decline in NIM or something on the order of that.
We certainly stay well above the long-term targets we've talked about.
Second component that's going into that dimensionalization is obviously going to be your payments revenue.
I think we talked during the course of the discussion about the fact that there is going to be some expense related to the PULSE litigation against VISA that will be creeping in and also while we're growing volumes in the space a lot of the volume we're growing is B2B volume in our Ariba partnership and it's coming on at a lower margin.
The higher rewards rate I think we've said about 105 basis points for next year is the right way to think about it and then just to continued attrition of the protection products revenue.
So I would say there is nothing I would describe as cataclysmic in terms of those components.
And Sanjay in terms of the competitive environment I think it's been fairly stable on the yield side.
As Mark mentioned most of the pressure will come more on the cost of funds side and from a competitive perspective I feel like things are fairly stable overall but if anything I think there is probably more action in the rewards earn rate from some competitors as opposed to probably on the APR side.
Next question comes from Mark DeVries with Barclays.
My question is around Mark your comments around the provision the guidance there.
I understand you're looking for that to be up year-over-year due to expected seasoning but what I'm wondering is is that assuming some deterioration in the delinquency rates that we're not seeing? Because when I look at the data charge-offs gross charge-offs are basically still flat year-over-year net up modestly due to lower recoveries and delinquencies are also pretty flat and stable and your customer just effectively got a raise with lower gas prices.
So I'm wondering what's embedded in your assumptions there? I think there is a couple things embedded in the assumptions there Mark and it's a great question.
Number one I would say is I think we really hit the bottom for this cycle I would say with respect to credit this last year.
So if you look at our reserve to our total loans trending over the course of the last couple years I think you see if you're looking at ending total loans I think it was 3.8% 3.9% at the end of 2011.
It declined to 2.51% at the end of '13 and we're looking at 2.5% again roughly at the end of last year.
So it feels like we've found the bottom there right.
So that's the starting point.
And then on top of that you look at three years of consistent loan growth that we've put up whereas most of our peers have returned to loan growth really only like the last six months.
And if you think the way a loan seasons a card loan seasons it tends to have peak charge-offs between months 18 and 30.
So you really have -- that vintage from three years ago is still under the high part of that curve the vintage from two years is right under the peak part of that curve.
The vintage from last year is climbing that slope and you don't have the benefit of the backdrop of the improving credit environment to help mitigate and offset some of the impacts of that growth.
So I think it's just an inevitability of the fact we've been growing.
It doesn't feel like there is a problem.
It doesn't feel like there is a fundamental turn in credit.
It's just a function of growth.
Next question is from Bob Napoli with William Blair.
I was just wondering if you had any updated thoughts on loan growth as we look into 2015.
The loan growth that we saw this quarter in credit card and we've seen relatively stable would you expect to continue to grow around that rate? And then there has been a little bit of a slowdown in the personal loan business.
So some thoughts around loan growth would be helpful.
Sure.
Well I think we'll probably have more to say about long-term targets at our Investor Day.
But generally I continue to be very pleased with how strong our loan growth has been both in this quarter as well as the last few quarters.
High end of the industry above our range and coming in with very high quality to boot.
In terms of personal loans I think the dollars of loan growth have continued to be very strong and what I would expect generally is that the percentage growth rate will tend to start declining a bit just because of the large numbers that's becoming a large sizable loan book but continues to be the fastest growing part of our portfolio and one of the fastest growth loan books in the industry.
And then just on AribaPay $1.5 billion in volume this quarter.
Can you give a feel for the revenue yield you're getting on that and what kind of -- is that $1.5 billion -- how many customers does AribaPay have and how quickly is that going to grow? I mean it's pretty quickly -- $1.5 billion is a pretty big number to hit in a short period of time.
It is but remember this is B2B so even one customer can be very very sizable and so you look at the size of that market.
In total it's a larger market than consumer credit cards and it's a new market for us but it's also -- to some degree we're substituting for checks and other lower cost methods of payment than traditional credit cards.
So it's a business that we think can produce over time very significant volumes but at much lower than the typical network fees that we might expect on the consumer side.
Next question is from James Friedman with Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
I had two questions one for Mark and one for David.
Mark on slide 8 you were calling out I thought three one-time events.
I got the Discover Home Loans.
I got the Diners Club Italy.
I thought that there was a third one.
Maybe I missed and then if I could a follow-up afterwards? Yes.
So there are three one-time items in total Jamie.
The first is the $178 million rewards charge for elimination of the forfeiture reserve.
That’s actually a contra-revenue that was covered on another slide and then there is two that are specific on the expense side of the equation and that's going to be about $0.04 $21 million roughly for the diners fair market valuation and the move to held for sale or the classification of held for sale and then about $27 million or so roughly another $0.04 related to the home loans business.
And then David with regard to student loans I just wanted to get your response in the instance that some of the proposals on Capitol Hill go through with regard to community college I realize you don't extend loans to community college but how should we think about that as competitive dynamic? I think as you say because we aren't in the community student loan market I really wouldn't expect that to have a significant impact on our business sort to go through.
Our next question is from Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Just a question on the outlook for operating expenses the 3.5 billion when I think about some of the one-time costs that you outlined for BSA ML and EMV it gets the core expense growth rate closer to 3% so I guess I know we are still far away from 2016 but would you expect any of these expenses to stay in the run rate? And if not do you think we could resume beyond '15 closer to the 3% or 4% growth expense rate? Yes I think there's definitely Ryan some one-time impacts associated with next year.
I think back in December actually at your conference we made mention of the fact that AML/BSA cost we saw was in the $70 million - $75 million range of something like that so that's clearly a piece of this puzzle.
We would not expect that to be a recurring expense.
The other big components of the increase really our marketing expense David alluded to the launch of a new product and we've also spoken pretty openly about the fact we're getting great new accounts in terms both of numbers as well as the level of activity we're seeing out of those customers.
So it doesn't feel like the time when credit is stable we're getting the right kind of results from marketing cost per account acquired are in-line it doesn't feel the right time to pull back on that either and those are the two big drivers.
The other pieces are really some technology spend big chunk of which is amortization of money that's already been spent.
And then there is the litigation that we talked about earlier the PULSE is filed as well.
So those are -- they are some of the components there that are clearly have levers that can be dialed back when the time feels right.
It just feels when the fundamental business is running well it's not the time to dial some of them back.
And just one other financial question for you when I think about the guidance for net interest margin compression are there any assumptions for changes in the rate environment embedded in your guidance? And if so what happens if interest rates don't rise? Does that change the trajectory of the net interest margin? Yes.
So the assumptions we use as we build off the forward curve which you guys can just always work off the same things you're going to be looking at the same info we are that way.
We have essentially focused our positioning on the multi-year impact of rising rates.
Because if you think about it in the one-year timeframe a card loan and a 10-year student loan react the same way when in reality that's not what will happen.
So we're asset sensitive in a one year profile.
We're essentially neutralized to the impact of rates through the cycle on the long tier basis as well based on the actions we've done and our actions going forward would be trying to protect that positioning in that multi-year look.
It's really kind of where we're spending our attention on how we are focused.
The toughest scenario for us is a steep in [inaudible] and we are flat essentially in that today I think we might lose $9 million or $10 million it's not a lot and we're essentially flat.
And a flattener which people are starting to talk about actually would be a slight benefit to us if it occurred on the front end of the curve.
Next question is from Matthew Howlett with UBS.
The loan growth was strong.
Obviously December numbers looked really good.
I guess I just wanted a comment on the lower gas prices obviously retail sales were weak in December and I think just one of your peers just said that that was a disappointment in December.
Can you touch on anything in terms of if gas keeps on going lower what that does potentially to spend or growth loan growth? Well generally I think lower gas prices is great for consumers.
So I wouldn't express that as being disappointed.
It certainly does have some negative impact on our sales growth and so our sales growth would have been -- with stable gas prices approximately 1% faster year-over-year.
I've seen various theories out there as to whether customers you know what do they do with that extra money? Does it help them make their payments and therefore does it help credit? Do they spend it on other things? Do they save it? So far maybe because it's been such a short term and such a significant drop we haven't noticeably seen it being spent in other places.
And so that's why we've kind of called it out as some drag on sales but good for consumers.
Is it as simple as if it was 10% of your volume like it is for the industry that gas prices fall 50% year-over-year? Did we look at that sort of taking that we just don't know what the difference is going to be if they decide to spend it in other areas? Is that sort of how to think about it? I think that's a reasonable way to think about it.
And historically it has been about 10% of our sales right now it's something less than 10% of our sales.
And then just on the personal lending side I mean it's a phenomenal growth and there was a slight uptick on delinquencies.
Is that just sort of seasonality? Clearly there is a lot of competition entering the space.
You still feel really good about pricing today in that market? Yes I would say it's really more as opposed to seasonality seasoning.
Much like in the card business there has been a lot of growth over the course of the last couple years there and you're starting to see the impact of that growth just naturally show up.
So don't feel like there is any fundamental credit issue there to call out at all.
In terms of the performance of the business continues to feel very good to us.
It's a great asset.
The other thing I would call out around it is because I'm presuming your next question is the modest amount of yield compression we've had around that asset and the bottom line is it's not competitively driven.
We are seeing our customers elect shorter durations.
So if you go back a couple years ago the average duration was four years.
Today the average duration is three years and they're fixed rate loans so it's just pricing down further down the curve.
Next question from Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
Just wondering if you could comment on what you've seen recently on the split between on card loan growth between new and existing accounts and then maybe comment on the propensity of borrowers to revolve here if you're seeing any kind of changes in borrowing habits there as well? I think we've commented in the past that most of our growth is pretty balanced between growth in wallet share from existing customers and better retention of customers.
As well as being balanced out with a similar amount from new accounts.
And we're continuing to see that as similar relationship.
Okay.
And then just in general in the industry it seems like we've seen some of your competitors and peers picking up a little bit on loan balances.
Maybe if you could broaden out that observation to kind of what your thoughts are around the space in general? Well I think that it does appear that the industry has finally turned the corner and is no longer shrinking.
I think some of our competitors lost a lot of loans over the last several years and I guess I would just say that I'm not suggesting that our growth rate will necessarily pick up from here but I think it's probably easier for us to sustain a higher level of loan growth in a growing industry versus a shrinking industry.
Next question is from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
I was sort of wondering David if you could kind of talk a little bit about what -- I know you probably won't be too specific about the new product launch that you alluded to.
I mean is it aimed at a different segment or what features should we be looking for? I don't want to preempt the launch.
I would just say we'll have the details out very soon.
The one thing I would say is that we do think our Discover It platform is something that can be leveraged into other products that have some of the advantages that Discover It offers including free FICOs and pricing features lots of features that others don't have but maybe something a little different than our traditional cash back bonus program.
So stay tuned we'll give you the details real soon.
Okay.
Just as a follow-up the provision guidance for 2015 actually is a little lower actually than the provision annualized rate in the fourth quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about -- in other words you’re expecting slightly higher credit losses so maybe kind of square for us why the reserve addition is so large this quarter and actually fairly moderate into 2015? Sure.
I'll tackle that one Moshe.
I think the real key driver is -- I will take you back to the way we establish our reserves and that is we sit down at the end of every quarter and we look at the loss content we see embedded in the balance sheet over the forward-looking 12 months period of time.
And it's really a function of in response to the earlier question as I talked about those three years of vintage [ph] seasoning how they're coming along.
It's really a function of how much of those three vintages is under the peak part of that seasoning curve as we sit here and look right now.
And it just happens to capture a large a large portion of each of those three vintages.
So you're correct.
In your assessment of what our guidance is essentially.
Next question is from Vincent Caintic with Macquarie.
Just wanted to elaborate a bit more on the competitive environment for rewards with your adjusted rewards rate of 10 basis points year-over-year and say call it five basis points because of your rewards redemption policy would you say that the other five is stable or has room to grow? Is there more competition? And then also how do you think that plays out in terms of driving spend in loan growth? Well I would say that it still will tend to modestly grow from here.
Fourth quarter tends to be a heavier quarter.
So I'm not saying grow from the 110 but I'm suggesting that on a year-over-year basis in addition to the change in redemption the changes in redemption and breakage we also have more and more of our book is made up of Discover It that has a flat 1% and less and less of it therefore but fortunately is the up to 1% of our traditional more product.
So that will tend to naturally drive it up.
I think that as we think about the competitive intensity in rewards it is one of the reasons we made the change on redemption because customers told us that in some ways not losing their rewards was even more important than the headline rate.
And it was a way for us to meet the competition have advantages in ways that were greater value to consumers at lower cost to us and therefore is beneficial for us long-term.
Okay.
And then switching products if you could describe the goodwill impairment on the Discover home loans and then you're forward view of the business it seems like refis have been strong with a low rate strong with a low rate environment and just wanted to see what you're also seeing.
Thanks.
It's Mark.
I'll tackle that one.
If you think about it when you put the goodwill on the books its valued based on the assumptions you have at that point in time and part of those assumptions were that we would have more success bluntly penetrating the purchase money marketplace and wouldn't be as refi dependent as the model is today.
So I agree with you if you think about with the drop in loan rates the refi pipeline probably looks a little bit stronger today than it did a few months back.
No question about it but the purchase money volume that we were counting on when we acquired the business just hasn't materialized yet.
So that's really what's driving the impairment.
In terms of a go forward look I would anchor back to David's earlier comments my earlier comments.
I think we'll evaluate our strategy around that business and try and figure out what the right thing to do is.
Next question from Chris Donat with Sandler O'Neill.
Mark just wanted to parse your language around the modest net interest margin compression particularly on the asset side because I thought David had commented that there really wasn't much pressure on the asset side but I'm wondering if you're seeing a mix shift either in your cards or in the broader loan portfolio that's putting a there? Just wondering if it's something that's one more one-time in nature or more sustainable? So how about if I parse it up a little bit more for you? I'm not going to dimensionalize it in terms of the size.
Again I would say stick with modest which again I think if we were seeing anything giant we would not choose the word modest but if you look at the components of the NIM compression about half of it is due to higher funding costs.
About a quarter of it is due to lower asset yields and about a quarter of it is due to a combination of loan mix and interest charge-offs which run through margin for us.
So that would be the component parts that are driving that NIM compression which again I would really underscore it's modest NIM compression.
Got it.
I just wanted to make sure I'm getting at here.
And then switching gears to another product you mentioned the litigation around PULSE.
Going back to September the American Bankers Association endorsed the Discover Debit product.
I'm just wondering if you're seeing any pickup in that or do you think maybe that business has been on hold pending really the Supreme Court non-decision this week to review the Federal Reserve rules implementing Durban? So anyway looks like now that those rules won't be under the subject to appeal that there is more certainty in that.
I'm wondering if you've got any expeditions around the Discover Debit product from here? You opened up some complicated topics and of course I really can't talk about the litigation part.
Let me limit my answer to Discover Debit.
We were real pleased with the endorsement by the ABA.
We've been pleased with the discussions that we're having with issuers and I think it's early days to sort of accelerate our offering of a signature debit product.
We are the only ones in the world who have it besides Visa and MasterCard.
And I certainly think we look forward to providing better economics and flexibility than the only two options that have been out there up until this point.
Okay.
And a sales cycle here will be measured in quarters right? Not weeks or months? Is that fair? You know if we have significant deals we would announce them.
Certainly there is competitive challenge and I don't think the Supreme Court decision was really one way or another addressing the competitive challenge that is key to the pressure that's on all the pin debit networks in particular us that I'm concerned about.
But we've announced before that we have a dozen or so very small signature debit issuers and we're now starting to get to try to really go after some larger players to grow that volume.
Next question is from John Hecht with Jefferies Capital.
The question I have pertains to provisioning and charge-off trends.
The guidance is premised on the seasoning of the loan balance and lower recoveries.
I'm wondering as we step through calendar year '15 do you see these factors neutralizing? I guess what that means is in the absence of changes to the economic outlook or your consumer trends is this provisioning rate a good trend rate going forward from there? Yes I think as you look out it's going to depend on a number of different things.
I know you prefaced it being a stable environment but I want to be careful with that one because it is a dynamic process part of which will depend upon what our growth rates look like right? I mean if our growth rates tick up that would imply a couple years down the road so would the provisioning.
If they slowdown that would imply in a stable credit environment that it would slowdown.
So it's a multivariate equation so it's not as simple as just saying yes that feels good.
I think the key factors to keep in mind are it's driven by our growth the fundamental credit backdrop remains really solid at this point in time.
If that were to change that could change it.
If our growth rate changes that could change it and then the declining recoveries on the aged charge-offs I'll just remind you it's not a decline in the recovery rate we're realizing on new charge-offs.
It is we have a big pool of aged charge-offs we never sold back from the recession against which there is a declining ability to realize recoveries.
That's maybe 10% of the ultimate impact of the increase give or take.
So it's a declining percentage there.
Next question is from Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.
So I just had a question around the Ariba B2B business.
I know you mentioned that it's in the early days early stages here but there was a relatively low discount rate on it.
Maybe you could give us a sense of what your expectations are for how quickly that business is likely to grow? I know you mentioned that in the payments area you thought that B2B would have a negative impact on the overall discount rate which I get but it's a small piece so I'm wondering how fast you think it's going to grow and if incremental new business would come on at an even lower discount rate than the business you have right now? Well Betsy I think we are likely to have a little more color by the time we have our Investor Day later this year.
If you look at the $1.5 billion of volume just in the fourth quarter not that long after launching you can see that it's probably the most volume we've put on from anything this early in a program.
So it has the potential to put up a lot of volume if it continues to grow and be successful as the early days suggest but by definition it's very low margin business and so if that becomes more material to the payment segment it will have the impact of depressing the overall margin but we do believe it will be additive to profits just not at a very high rate and so overall we think it's a very good thing.
It's also a little bit hard for us to predict because the product just hasn't existed in the marketplace because it's unique.
Competitors haven't offered it.
We are exactly the way we have we have got a great partner.
And it's off to a good start in the early days but it is still very early days in a very new business.
Okay.
So I get that and I'm just thinking out loud about how it's B2B so clearly everyone's doing the math on either side of the table.
And I would think that part of the benefit to you is maybe some flow or funding benefits you got from the flow associated with the payments.
I don't know if that's accurate or not and I raise it in the context of industry shifted towards real time payments ultimately banking industry moving to real time payments.
If that were to happen would that change the dynamic on the pricing on the product? As you can imagine B2B customers are quite sophisticated and so there is one of the benefits is it settles I won't say real time but very quickly.
So there is not a lot of flow there is not a lot of revenue but it's a way to leverage our network in a way that we've not traditionally been able to leverage the network in a unique way to provide value to new sets of customers and that we think over time there may be additional products and services that can be bundled with it but right now we are focused on getting those early customers to be successful and to be feeling good about the product so that this thing can gain momentum.
Our partner is the leader globally in this B2B space and so they are very excited about another way to help their customers have more efficient faster payments in a way that's not been available from any provider historically and so we are focused on growing the volume right now and having it flow successfully.
Next question is from Rick Shane with JPMorgan.
I know you've had a couple questions on provision and reserve but I would just like to see if we can understand one thing a little bit better.
I'm basically trying to figure out if something's a pattern or a coincidence.
A couple of years ago you shifted to a December calendar year-end and what that meant was the sort of peak in terms of receivables December to the trough in receivables March became more pronounced than when you were on a November to February year-end.
And since that time it looks like there has been a little bit more of a pattern of higher provisions in the fourth quarter and at least the last couple years what we've seen is a little bit of a reversal of that in the first quarter.
It would help I think us and other folks to understand if that's something we should anticipate going forward.
Yes very fair question.
I would say two things.
Number one what happens in the first quarter is dependent on what happens in the first quarter.
I don't know what that is yet so the reserve will be set at the end of the quarter for what happens during the course of the quarter.
But I think it's a very fair statement to say that the shift in the calendar year-end and the way that works did have an impact and influence on that one.
I would say it's very modest though right? So again I would say what you're really seeing this year speaking to this year specifically is those three years of growth and how much of them happen to be sitting under the peak part the area under the peak of that seasoning curve at any one point in time.
And the last question is from Owen Lau with Janney Capital.
Try to touch on the question on the revenue side again.
How should we think about the net interest income in 2015? Just directionally do you see it going up flat or down? Also on the expense side could you please shed more light on why did you increase spending on the marketing by $27 million year-over-year? So what was the trigger of that? Is it related to the product cycle or high competition on card and personal loans? What was the thought process behind it? Thank you.
Owen it's Bill.
Can you repeat the revenue question? The first part of your question? Second question is on expenses and what are driving expenses of I think? And marketing? Yes sure.
So on the revenue side how should we think about the net interest income in 2015? Just directionally do you see it going up or flat or down? How should we think about that? Yes I would say it's going to be a function of a couple different things Owen.
It's going to be a function of asset growth.
It's going to be a function of NIM compression.
It's going to be a function of asset mix right.
All those different pieces of the puzzle so in terms of trajectory I think net interest income will be up okay but in terms of the magnitude of that that's not something I'm prepared to really talk about at this point in time.
We don't really give guidance that specific on items like that.
On the expense side of the question I would say specifically that the key drivers of expenses touched on a couple of them earlier.
One of them is about $70 million or $75 million for BSA/AML consent order compliance program compliance.
In addition to that I would say there is another not insignificant number related to increased marketing expense that's really driven by two different things.
Number one we continue to see great new account acquisition and we continue to see it come on more actively engaged using the card more frequently and more often than we've seen historically so the returns on that marketing spend continue to be very good.
So we are continuing to invest there and then David also alluded to the launch of a new product here in the not-too-distant future and obviously there is some marketing expense that goes along with that as well.
But I think if you're asking just about that $27 million it's up 3% year-over-year which isn't that significant.
The fourth quarter tends to be our biggest quarter on marketing expenses as we move into holiday periods and we saw that again this year.
Okay.
I'll turn it back to Bill for final remarks.
Thanks Leslie.
I would like to thank everyone for joining us on today's call.
If you have any other follow-up questions feel free to give me a call.
Have a good night.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the Q1 2015 Discover Financial Services earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions].
I will now turn the call over to Bill Franklin.
You may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us.
Let me begin as always with slide 2 of our earnings presentation which is in the Investor Relations section of discover.com.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC today in an 8-K report and in our 10-K which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the first quarter 2015 earnings materials we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call today will include formal remarks from David Nelms our chairman and chief executive officer and Mark Graf our chief financial officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
During the Q&amp;A period it would be very helpful if you limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up so we can make sure that everyone is accommodated.
So now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Bill.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us today.
For the first quarter we delivered net income of $586 million earnings per share of $1.28 and a return on equity of 21%.
Our direct banking business continues to deliver solid results.
Discover achieved a total loan growth of 6% over the prior year.
This was driven by strong growth in card loans personal loans and private student loans.
Specifically we grew card receivables by just over 5% at the upper end of our targeted range.
Card sales volume for the quarter was up 3%.
Excluding the impact of gas prices sales were up approximately 5%.
Our growth continues to be driven by a combination of wallet share gains with existing customers and from new accounts.
Our Discover it product continues to attract customers as we innovate and offer new industry leading features such as our recently announced Freeze It capability which allows card members to temporarily suspend their accounts in the event a card is misplaced.
In the quarter we also launched our new Discover it Miles card.
We believe this card will appeal to a different segment of our target market prime revolvers who value travel rewards.
This card leverages our Discover it platform with all of its innovative customer features to offer a unique value proposition in a crowded market.
It will take time to become a meaningful portion of our new accounts but we’re optimistic about the long term value it will generate.
Our other direct lending products also continue to perform well.
The organic student loan portfolio increased 20% and personal loans grew 18% over the prior year.
Focused on our payments business total volume for the segment was flat as increases in our proprietary volume and growth in our business to business volume offset year over year declines at Pulse.
On a reported basis Diners volume was down 1%.
However adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange rates Diners volume was up more than 10% year over year driven by strong results in several regions especially Asia Pacific.
Overall I’m pleased with our results this quarter.
I look forward to sharing more of our thoughts about the year ahead at our financial community briefing on May 5.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Mark and he’ll walk you through the details of our first quarter results.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
I’ll start by going through the revenue detail on slide five of our earnings presentation.
Net interest income increased $66 million or 4% over the prior year driven by continued loan growth.
Total noninterest income increased $27 million to $542 million as higher net discount interchange revenue and direct mortgage related income more than offset the continued decline in protection product revenue.
Net discount interchange revenue was up 6% driven by increased sales and a lower rewards rate year over year.
Our rewards rate for the quarter was 102 basis points.
On a reported basis the rate was down 1 basis point year over year but I would remind you that last year we recognized a forfeiture adjustment in the first quarter so on an adjusted basis the rate is actually up about 6 basis points.
Sequentially the rewards rate was down significantly as the rate last quarter included a onetime charge for the elimination of our rewards forfeiture reserve as we changed our programs so that cardholder rewards never expire.
Direct to mortgage related income increased this quarter as the refi market picked up due to the decline in mortgage rates several months back.
As we’ve said in the past Discover Home Loans has been contributing or costing $0.01 or $0.02 of EPS most quarters and this quarter we were on the positive side of that range.
Protection products revenue declined $12 million as new product sales remain suspended.
Moving to payment services revenue decreased 6% or $5 million from the prior year mainly due to the previously announced loss of the Sam’s and Walmart cobrand volume network partners.
Volume for the segment on the other hand was relatively flat as growth in lower-margin B2B transactions mostly offset the loss and lower debit volumes.
Overall we grew total company net revenues by 4% for the quarter.
Turning to slide six total loan yield of 11.37% was 7 basis points lower than the prior year primarily driven by a 9 basis point decrease in card yield.
The year over year decrease in card yield reflects a small shift in portfolio mix as high rate balances are replaced by standard or promotional rate balances.
Personal loan yield decreased from the prior year primarily driven by more customers opting for shorter term consolidation loans.
Funding costs increased 10 basis points due to higher fixed rate debt issuances in the last 12 months.
Year to date we’ve completed two debt issuances a $500 million 10-year fixed rate senior note and a $950 million 3-year floating rate ABS deal.
We continue to position the balance sheet in anticipation of gradually rising rates.
Higher funding costs and lower total loan yield resulted in an 18 basis point decrease in net interest margin from the prior year to 9.69%.
Turning to slide seven operating expenses were up $89 million over the prior year.
Employee compensation increased $24 million due to higher headcount to support growth annual salary increases and higher commissions associated with the increase in home mortgage originations.
Marketing expenses increased $13 million as we invested in advertising for several products.
Professional fees increased $28 million due in part to approximately $15 million in costs associated with anti-money laundering and related compliance program enhancements.
Other expense was up due to a $20 million legal reserve addition.
For the quarter our total company efficiency ratio was 40%.
Excluding the two unusual items I just mentioned the total company efficiency ratio is roughly 38.5% in line with our long term target.
Turning to provision for loan losses and credit on slide eight provision for loan losses was higher by $118 million compared to the prior year due to higher reserves and chargeoffs driven primarily by loan growth.
This quarter we increased reserves by $30 million while last year we had a $57 million reserve release.
The credit card net chargeoff rate increased by 14 basis points from the prior quarter and by 8 basis points year over year to 2.4%.
The 30-plus day delinquency rate of 1.64% declined relative to both the prior quarter and the prior year.
A portion of the drop was driven by the implementation of some payment processing changes during the quarter.
On balance the credit backdrop continues to remain benign.
The private student loan net chargeoff rate excluding purchased loans decreased 28 basis points in the prior year partially due to more efficient collections strategies as well as the introduction of several new payment plans over the last year.
Student loan delinquencies once again excluding acquired loans decreased 13 basis points to 1.66%.
Overall the student loan portfolio continues to season generally in line with our expectations.
Switching to personal loans the net chargeoff rate was up 15 basis points from the prior year and the over 30 day delinquency rate was up 8 basis points to 76 basis points.
The year over year increase in the personal loan chargeoff rate was primarily driven by the seasoning of recent loan growth.
One last item I’ll call out on the income statement is that we were able to recognize some prior year state tax benefits which reduced our effective tax rate to 35.5% for the quarter.
Next I’ll touch on our capital position on slide nine.
Our common equity tier one capital ratio increased sequentially by 60 basis points to 14.7% due to the seasonal decline in loan balances from the fourth quarter.
As previously announced on March 11 Discover received a nonobjection from the Federal Reserve on proposed capital actions during the five quarters ending June 30 2016.
We were pleased with the outcome and how we lined up versus other banks in terms of our capital ratios in the stress scenarios.
Based on the proposed capital actions we plan to repurchase $2.2 billion of our common stock over the next five quarters and last week our board increased our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.24 to $0.28 per share.
In summary it feels like a good start to the year with strong loan growth and a continued benign credit environment.
That concludes our formal remarks so now I’ll turn the call back to Bill Franklin.
Hello everyone.
Only a few people are in the queue right now so I’m going to ask everyone to please dial *1.
You may have already done this but please dial *1 again if you would like to ask a question.
Thank you.
Now I’ll turn it back to the operator.
[Operator instructions.] And our first question comes from Rick Shane from JPMorgan.
Mark you talked a little bit about on the personal loans you’re seeing a pickup in losses in terms of seasoning.
I’m really curious if you were to disaggregate the credit card portfolio are you seeing the seasoned portfolio any deterioration there? Or is it really just normalization of the newer loans that’s driving… And again it’s a slight uptick but the movement in chargeoffs? Rick I would say kind of as we’ve been telegraphing the credit environment really does remain generally very benign.
So the seasoned portfolio has really stabilized at this point in time.
I would say the movements we’re seeing are directly related to the loan growth we put on over the course of the last three to four years and the seasoning of that growth as it moves through the vintage curves.
So it’s basically convergence it’s not an uptick on the larger portfolio? That’s correct.
And our next question comes from James Friedman.
First David with regard to the new Discover it card that you’re introducing into the market with Miles maybe more generally if you could talk about the competitive environment and how you’re positioning that product.
Of course Discover it remains our flagship product and we continue to enhance Discover it with the introduction of the Freeze on/off switch which we just introduced on that this quarter.
We continue to enhance in areas like free FICO over time and that’s in part to basically stay ahead of competitors in value to consumers and things that can be differentially marketed.
The Discover it Miles card is on the same Discover it platform but adds a new currency in terms of miles primarily positioned to people who travel or really value free travel.
And I would think about it as more of an extension.
We do think it will appeal to certain segments and may directly go up against other competitors when they have miles type cards whether cobrand or otherwise.
And so we think it positions us well to compete in the marketplace.
And then just one quick follow up.
I wanted to ask have you seen the impact at all yet from the marketplace type vendors like Lending Club? I know it’s more personal lines than they’re fixed amortizing loans but do you see them at all at this point or is it too early? It’s a little hard to track.
There’s no doubt that we must be running up against them some in the marketplace because as you say some of them have grown and have been very aggressive.
They tend to play in a broader credit spectrum than we do if you look at our 750 plus FICO score and you compare it to those folks.
There’s a lot of people that they might book that we might not.
But there would no doubt be some overlap so we’re watching what they’re doing and if we can learn some things that can help us we won’t be shy about paying attention to them.
I would just tack on to that the yield compression we’ve seen to date in the personal lending book is really attributable to the shortening of the duration the consumers are choosing.
Going back a year or so ago they picked a four year average amortization period.
Today they’re picking a three year period.
So as a fixed rate loan it’s just pricing further down the curve.
And our next question comes from Bill Carcache of Nomura.
Mark can you talk about when you think we might expect to see you guys reach the point where the seasoning on new account acquisition growth rate that kind of stabilizes? And I guess with that your provision begins to grow more in line with your loan growth such that it’s no longer a headwind to your EPS growth? I was just wondering if maybe you could give a sense for how far we are from that point assuming of course that credit remains benign.
Bill I would tell you it really depends on what happens to our growth rates.
So a big piece of this puzzle is if you think about I’ll visually draw you a vintage curve here and kind of say now overlay four years of growth of those vintage curves.
What’s driving really the reserving is the area shaded under the peaks of all four of those curves overlaid on top of one another.
So theoretically if you think about a vintage curve as you do another year or two worth of growth that really begins to stabilize if your growth rate is really stable.
If you’re growth rates accelerate theoretically it’s going to take longer for that to happen.
The good news is I think this is a really good problem to have because we can’t shrink our way to long term success.
And ultimately acquiring new card members and growing the book is the way we compound value over time.
So while I understand obviously the impacts in the near term I think over the long haul it’s again a pretty high class problem.
So as far as you could tell over the course of call it the next 12 months those seasoning effects will lead to continued reserve building I guess at a level on particular with this quarter or perhaps maybe even a little bit higher? I guess what I would say is we don’t provide forward guidance really on what we expect the reserves.
We did at the beginning of the year give a sense for what we kind of expected on the full year in terms of provision rate is really kind of where we touched on it.
What I would do is I would take you back to our earlier comments and I’d just say the credit environment remains really benign.
So really the provisioning you’re seeing from us at this point in time is the result of that high class problem of growth and not anything related to any deterioration in the portfolios.
And then I guess on a related point and then I’ll drop back out I didn’t hear any update on that 2.5 provision guidance.
We assume that that continues to hold that you guys gave last quarter.
Maybe if you could talk a little bit about the applicability of that? I know the investor day’s coming up and there’ll probably be more there but anything you could say on it now would be great.
I would kick it to the investor day for a more fulsome update.
I guess what I would say just very quickly is I don’t see any reason to change that guidance at this point in time.
And our next question comes from Chris Donat of Sandler O’Neill.
Mark wanted to go back to the other income line that was $80 million this quarter.
I think you said it was primarily from higher direct mortgage related income.
Can you just remind us what kind of mortgages you’re doing there? And I guess we have to make our own assumptions about how those fees are likely to operate given the rate environment we’re in.
But is it all kind of fixed rate product like 30 year? Or is there other types of mortgages in there? There’s a variety of product in there.
I would say it’s all conforming product and it’s all being packaged for sale.
So we’re not retaining any of that product on our own balance sheet.
I would say if you look year over year that other income item was up somewhere on the order of $29 million or $30 million if I remember correctly.
Roughly let’s call it two thirds of that is related to the mortgage business so it was the largest driver of the increase that was embedded in there.
And I think it’s really a reflection that the fixed rate volumes picked up pretty dramatically as you saw the drop in the long treasury rates at the end of last year.
And it takes a little while for that pipeline to kind of flow through the system so I think that’s really the impact to what you’re seeing there.
And this is refi or new originations? I would say at this point in time the vast majority of our business continues to be refi oriented.
And our next question comes from Sanjay Sakhrani from KBW.
David I had a question about interchange rates and I guess the discount rate for you guys.
We’re seeing a decent amount of competition in the cobrand space.
I know you guys have experienced it firsthand.
I was wondering if you had just any broad thoughts on kind of interchange rates and then whether or not you felt any pressure from other merchants recently given what we’re hearing.
Well I think that the big merchant discount interchange rate story that I guess I’ve seen recently has been sort of the two warehouse clubs that I would just say feel like more unique situations.
And there’s not broad acceptance in either of those locations and therefore the rates that we’ve all seen printed seem very low compared to others.
I wouldn’t necessarily draw any conclusions about an impact on that more broadly.
I think they’re unique.
On the cobrand I think that’s a little different and I’m not sure it shows up in interchange but what we see is that the cobrand market seems to have really heated up and it has become very competitive in terms of terms and it makes me glad that we’re not in the cobrand business.
More broadly I haven’t noticed any trends one direction or another on merchant discount rate or interchange in the market.
And then just a follow up question on M&amp;A.
I guess any updates there on opportunities that you guys might be seeing to use some of the excess capital you guys have? Obviously there’s a large pool of financial assets out there for sale.
Not sure if you have any interest in that but maybe just an update on that topic? And then Mark just one data point question.
The tax rate going forward we should just assume it reverts back to like 38%? On M&amp;A we may have a little more to comment on at investor day but in a nutshell I’d say our primary focus is on organic growth.
And I’ll shoot it over to Mark for the other.
On the tax rate I would say there might be a little bit of goodness in the tax rate this year but not anything particularly meaningful.
And our next question comes from David Hochstim from Buckingham.
Could you expand maybe on what impact you’ve seen from lower gas prices aside from the headwind on spending? Have you seen any changes yet in customer spending or behavior during the quarter gas related or not gas related? Well we called out that the gas prices alone had a pretty significant impact about 2% I guess on our sales.
And I think that there would be a small knock on effect on loan growth as well.
There’s a lot of transactor volume within gas but obviously some of it would also evolve.
You know what is maybe a little surprising to me so far is I might have expected some of that increase in discretionary spending that consumers have left to have been spent on other things.
And I really didn’t see that during the quarter.
We saw retailers broadly not have great sales.
There’s some view that a lot of people are talking about the weather having an impact in the quarter but I guess I am hopeful that the broader economy and the broader consumer spending would pick up even apart from gas in the future.
But we just didn’t see it during the quarter.
I guess the other question is what are they doing with the money? It seems to be an increase in savings rate.
I’ve seen some comments about whether it’s benefitting credit.
It certainly shouldn’t be a negative for credit but I think it’s a little early for me to conclude that lower gas prices are going to improve credit results.
And did you see any change in consumer spending over the course of the quarter? Was February particularly weak because of weather do you think? You know March was a bit better than January and February but still March still wasn’t where I’d like to see it.
And we’ve seen Moody’s and a number of people take down their forecast for the year.
This was a broad industry kind of thing.
We’ve seen most of our competitors lower growth rate on sales and we certainly experienced that in our customer base as well.
And our next question comes from Bob Napoli of William Blair.
On the growth in student loans and in the consumer portfolio they both slowed down somewhat.
The consumer was almost flat quarter over quarter from the fourth quarter to the first quarter.
That’s been growing year over year close to 20% the same with the student loan ex PCI.
Is that competition from the marketplace lenders and student lending and consumer or do you still expect to be able to grow those portfolios along the same lines that you have been the last couple of years? I tend to look at year over year changes to help remove the seasonality in really all the business but particularly in student loans.
And our origination volume in both of those businesses in dollars has continued to grow nicely.
And so I think what we’re seeing is percentages even if you increase originations and you increase dollars of loans off of a higher base the percentages could modestly [decrease].
But if anything we’re picking up the dollar growth.
The other thing I would note is just that obviously the student loan business is lumpy in terms of disbursement cycles.
So you have to take that into account in terms of the periods you’re comparing as well.
And just on the B2B business the Ariba business it looks like you’re getting some pretty large volume but what should we expect from a volume perspective? And is line of sight to that being material to your business is that 12 months 24 months? How is that business progressing and when can it move the needle? You know it’s going to be sometime before it really contributes in any meaningful way to profits.
But without forecasting exact numbers we do expect the volume to continue to grow.
And it seems to be very well received.
It’s unique and it seems to be very well received by some businesses and by the partners of SAP and Ariba.
And our next question comes from Don Fandetti from Citigroup.
Mark I was wondering if you could provide some thoughts on the card yield and also the efficiency ratio over the next couple quarters.
And then David do you think there will be any impact or change to the rewards competitive environment when short term rates rise? I’ll tackle the first couple.
And I remember the first one is card yield and then I’m forgetting.
I’m sorry what was the second? Card yield and [unintelligible].
Efficiency ratio.
You got it.
So from a card yield perspective I would say the real compression thus far has been driven really by more what I call portfolio mix across the card business.
So what we’re continuing to see is pre-CARD Act higher rate balances continue to run off.
And given the very positive credit environment right now that bucket’s not getting refilled quickly.
And where we are seeing greater growth obviously is in what I would call the standard price receivables as well as promotional receivables also.
So I would expect that phenomenon would continue to play out over the coming quarters and you would see some relative stability to modest compression in card yield.
In terms of the adjusted efficiency ratio what I’m doing basically on that one is I’m just taking the reported efficiency ratio of around 40% I’m backing out the $20 million legal reserve addition and I’m backing out the $15 million related to AML BSA remediation efforts really kind of calling them out as noncore kind of things.
And on a core basis your efficiency ratio comes out at 38.5%.
And that’s kind of still where you’re thinking? Yeah I think what we’ve said for the year is that we expect we’ll be slightly above that 38% target range.
And I don’t see any reason to dissuade you from continuing to focus on that guidance.
And on rewards I think to a large degree we’re at a new normal.
I mean consumers love rewards.
That’s what’s working.
And therefore competitors have migrated to rewards generally.
Cash rewards I think particularly is working well and therefore you’re seeing competition in that space.
I think that if some issuers start getting pressured on profits and whether that’s from rates or chargeoffs or other factors higher marketing costs is an example the ones who may have gone to an unsustainably high level of rewards probably will make an adjustment.
That’s what we’ve seen in the past.
But I’m not sure that the average rewards rate for the industry and for us is unsustainable in the long run in terms of producing a good profit margin and providing great value for consumer.
And our next question comes from Ryan Nash from Goldman Sachs.
Just a couple of questions on expenses.
First the $20 million addition to the legal reserve was that contemplated in your $3.5 billion guidance? And on the $15 million of BSA AML how do you expect the remaining 60 to ramp? Would you expect it to be front loaded or would you expect it to be a little bit more evenly spread throughout the remaining quarters of the year? I would say no the $20 million was not contemplated in the guidance we gave number one.
Number two I would expect you will see the expense ramp a little bit associated with the AML BSA remediation activities.
And then just as a follow up to that has anything changed from what you told us last quarter on the expense front? Do you continue to believe the $110 million of incremental expenses for BSA E&amp;B will be one-time in nature? I believe the specific expenses we called out will be one-time in nature.
I think as we think about our business planning there will be some run rate expenses that we think we can cover with other operational efficiencies and everything else related to some of those matters.
So just to be clear it’s really the nonrecurring things where we’re not changing our guidance on those things at this point.
And if I could squeeze one more in on the net interest margin you outlined the issuance that you’ve done thus far should we assume NIM pressure to continue in this mid-single digits level until rates rise? I know you’ve talked in the past about wanting to make the balance sheet rate neutral through the cycle which I believe you guys are at or at least close to.
How should we think about how much more insurance you guys want to buy to protect against higher interest rates? Great question.
I guess what I would say is yeah we guided to that modest compression quarter over quarter this time around and kind of what we saw was really in line with our expectations.
Looking at second quarter I think you can probably expect a similar or somewhat similar decline there for the second quarter about half driven by yields and about half by funding costs plus or minus.
Beyond next quarter I would say the pace of the decline really begins to level off quite a bit.
It’s not like we’re going to pierce a 950 margin or something this year.
And our next question comes from Jason Harbes from Wells Fargo.
Question on EMV.
The merchant liability shift is still months away but we’re already hearing requests for a delay.
Can you maybe share your perspective on the EMV implementation along with some of the potential costs and benefits? That would be a big topic so I’m not going to try to fully address it.
Again at investor day we’ll try to tackle it a little more broadly.
I think that it’s important that we all try to hit the October date.
This has been a long time in the works.
It’s been a date that was set quite some time ago.
And as an industry we know we need to do something to better control security and fraud losses.
And frankly we could issue all the cards we want with chips but if there’s not terminals to use them it actually would cost us money.
There would be zero fraud savings.
And I think it’s in the merchants’ best interest to try to get there if anything more than it is for the issuers when you look at some of the breaches that have happened.
I think more broadly I expect that this is going to be a somewhat rocky rollout for the industry.
This is a huge change for consumers for people at point of sale.
Consumers are going to have to start dipping their card instead of swiping it.
Some merchants are going to be different.
So I think that merchants acquirers issuers we’re all going to be having to help educate consumers on the new way it works.
And that’s what we saw in other places in the world where EMV rolled out is that it took a while to smooth out the edges and fundamentally change something that’s been in place for a few decades.
And maybe as my follow up can you remind us what are your capital deployment priorities and what would be a reasonable timetable for hitting your 11% target? I would say the capital deployment priorities remain first and foremost continued investments in organic growth in the business.
I would say second of all to the extent it’s permissible under the current CCAR restrictions returning it to shareholders.
The reason those are number one and number two is because we think they have very definable returns associated with them and make a lot of sense.
The third priority I would say would be what I would call acquisitions of financial assets as opposed to operating businesses.
But those would really have to be financially motivated buys because obviously if you buy in a trading book you don’t get growth.
It makes growth more challenging.
So I would say they’d have to be financially motivated buys.
And then last but not least I would say with respect to traditional acquisitions I would say that’s fourth of four.
There’s a pretty high bar there right? I think you’ve got integration risk execution risk diligence risk key person retention risk.
So the bar on traditional M&amp;A is pretty high.
And you know while the BSA AML thing is out there I don’t think that’s primarily our focal area either.
And our next question comes from Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Maybe just a little bit of a follow up on the it Miles product.
I’ve seen some of the solicitations coming out and I’ve seen from the mail data that your numbers are starting to pick up.
Can you give us a sense of the timing of that rollout and maybe what impact it might have on spending and receivables? We’re still in a ramp up phase but A) it will be significantly smaller than the flagship Discover it card even when it’s sort of fully deployed.
And B) you should expect some substitution.
It’s not pure incremental marketing solicitations or dollars.
We’ll be marketing Discover it Miles where we think we can get better response rates better returns better activation and usage versus the flagship.
And we may be doing some alternating of products as well.
So I think bottom line I wouldn’t think about Discover it Miles as being something that will necessarily accelerate growth but hopefully to help us to maintain growth.
We’ve obviously been growing much faster than the industry in the past several years and we have to innovate if we’re going to keep that up.
And our next question comes from John Hecht from Jefferies.
You said commentary in the context of deposit and liability management.
You have a little bit of a step up in excess liquidity.
We’ve learned I guess a little bit more maybe about the rate cycle.
What should we think about you guys over the next few months in terms of managing your liabilities and thoughts on deposit [fundraising]? I would say a couple of different things there.
Number one the balance sheet today has been positioned to be what I would call modestly asset sensitive.
Sort of what’s caused the margin compression or a big cause of the margin compression we’ve consciously taken over the course of the last couple of quarters to build that positioning right? So I think if you think about not just a one year forward NII but if you think about the 10 forward years and the NII impact in each of those 10 years we’re managing to be net positive through the cycle if you will with respect to our asset liability positioning.
So we will continue to make those investments.
So if you think about the liability side of the balance sheet and how it contributes to that I would say a couple of things.
Number one I would say we as a team will always favor deposits over capital markets liabilities.
They come with customers attached to them.
We can cross sell to customers.
There’s a fulsome relationship that can be built there.
So we will always lean on using our balance sheet to service our customers and funding it with our customers’ deposits.
So that being said I think the model is such that we’re not going to necessarily be the highest rate payer in town.
That’s not our goal.
But we’re going to be a very fair rate payer relative to traditional banks.
I would say with respect to the capital markets things we’ve done there I think we’ve gotten the balance sheet into the position we want to see it so I wouldn’t expect a lot of fixed rate funding from this point.
Not saying none but I wouldn’t expect a lot.
What we would do from this point forward would be to protect the positioning we’ve built as the balance sheet grows and shifts in composition as opposed to trying to structure a more asset sensitive position.
And the related question is I’m wondering if you could give us an update on the rollout of the cash back checking or is that something you just keep in your pockets as rates go up? We are making efforts to increase the cross sell and we’re continuing to enhance the feature functionality of the product.
And we’re hopeful that by year-end we’ll be ready for broad market launch but frankly for now we’re continuing to focus on the cross sell.
And our next question comes from Ken Bruce from Bank of America.
My question really is a follow up to James Friedman’s question about the marketplace lenders.
I understand that it may be a little early and you’re kind of watching and learning but I guess there’s been a lot of capital raise recently and a lot more focus on that particular model so one would suspect that there’s going to be more activity than less going forward and they’ve specifically targeted revolving credit and essentially debt consolidation within the sector as a primary area of growth.
So how do you think about that competitively? Do you think that it’s a real risk? And I guess in your early stages what would be your response to compete against those? You know I think that at the margin our personal loans product does the same thing.
We do consolidate loans including credit card loans.
So to some degree it’s not a new product.
It had gotten a lot smaller as a category after the crisis and to some degree I think it’s sort of returning to where it was before but with maybe new players and new approaches.
At the margin it’s got to have a little impact on the total card business receivables but we haven’t figured out a way to measure it at this point.
We will be watching it.
You know there’s origination fees.
A personal loan is very different than a credit card that tends to be a small temporary loan coming from spending usually.
Credit card has a lot more features than a personal loan does.
But a consolidation loan also has its place and I guess for a couple of years now we’ve been by far the leader in this space and now we’ve got some company with a different funding model.
And maybe also another follow up.
Mark you had mentioned that basically you are from just a pure funding perspective kind of positioned where you want to be.
Are you at target duration on the liability side of the balance sheet now and that it would just kind of match the general growth of the business? Or do you envision any changes just given we keep pushing out the future rate hikes and it feels like as David’s comments would suggest things have softened up around the edges so maybe we’re looking at a lower rate environment maybe than you expected even three months ago? I guess I can make you happy by saying we’re never expecting a rapid ramp in rates.
I mean the activities we’ve undertaken have always expected a pretty gradual movement.
Now from a risk management perspective we run lots of shock scenarios to make sure we’re protected.
But what we’ve been positioning ourselves for really is that principal case of a gradual rise in rates.
So our thoughts around what’s going to happen really hasn’t shifted all that much in terms of timing or magnitudes.
What I would say is the answer to your question about duration targeting yeah we’re within a month or two of where ultimately in a perfect world I’d like to see us be.
So it feels like again back to my earlier comment we will do some fixed rate funding from here.
It will be characterized in one of two different ways either pure optimism because we see for lack of a better word an arbitrage opportunity that makes a lot of sense or number two I would say it would be in response to shifts in the composition and growth in the balance sheet.
So if we put more fixed rate assets on you would expect to see us cover that with more fixed rate funding.
And our next question comes from Scott Valentin from FBR &amp; Co.
With regard to the personal loans just curious kind of over the cycle where you would see losses for that product versus the credit cards.
You know what I would rather do is defer to investor day on that.
We have given that kind of guidance in previous investor days and Bill’s happy to give you those laying that out.
But generally personal loans the way we underwrite them probably have somewhat better loss characteristics than credit cards.
It’s very high FICO scores.
In terms of the rewards programs is there a cost benefit to the Miles program versus the cash back on the rewards side? Yes the Miles card is a bit more expensive from a rewards perspective.
And we expect to see that offset by higher spending higher balances and engagement.
So the way we look at it is we expect sort of similar overall returns even though we also expect a higher rewards cost.
And our next question comes from Cheryl Pate of Morgan Stanley.
Just a couple of follow up questions on the net interest margin if I may.
I guess first on the credit card yield I think you spoke to a bit of a mix shift more towards standard and promotional type balances.
Just wondering if on the promotional balances specifically you can speak to the growth there and has that been growing faster than other parts of the portfolio maybe as we see some competition in the space? We’ll give some more color on that at our investor day but what I would say is the strongest growing portion of the book by far is the standard rate portion of the book.
And I don’t think by any stretch of the imagination we’re being undisciplined with these promo balances or anything along those lines.
The growth is really being driven by regular way usage of the card which feels really solid.
And just a second follow up if I might on the personal loan side.
You spoke to sort of consumer preference to shorter term loans from here.
Has that been any change in pricing strategy or should we think of that as sort of getting ahead of rates? Is there any behavior in particular that’s incenting that or maybe the competitive environment that might be fueling that? We’ve looked at it from any number of different angles.
We can’t really discern any one particular thing other than to say there’s clearly been a shift in consumer preference possibly as we’ve gotten further away from the crisis folks are feeling more confident in their financial situation more confident in their employment situation everything else.
They’re comfortable carrying a heavier payment and paying it down quicker.
But we can’t isolate and say definitively it’s gee due to that or due to something else.
But that’s kind of the operative thesis for lack of a better way of putting it.
And our next question comes from David Ho from Deutsche Bank.
Real quickly back on the warehouse clubs opening up acceptance to Visa cards [unintelligible] volume out of the store obviously those cards are more competitive versus yours versus their previous provider.
I know it’s early days and next year but any potential impact in terms of wallet share as you think about some of the cash back offerings associated with the opening up of acceptance for those cards? No.
Discover already has the highest acceptance in the top 100 retailers and what I would expect especially the way this is happening is everyone already has multiple Visa cards.
And so to some degree they’ll be able to put their spend on the same Visa card they already have versus having to put it on a different card.
So I don’t see an impact on us.
And separately what factors may you be considering in terms of what you plan to do with the direct mortgage business? And when do those expenses maybe come out a little bit more out of the cost structure? And then how are you thinking about the home equity installment loan side of the business as well? On the mortgage business while we’re pleased as Mark indicated that given the attractive environment this quarter it was helpful.
But we still are confident that the rate environment is going to move up and therefore refinance volume is going to decline.
So we are continuing to look closely at options to make sure that it not become a drag over time.
On the home equity business it’s just early days.
We launched both personal loans and student loans in 1987 and we kept them pretty small until we felt really good about them and then we started scaling them.
I think we think the same way with home equity.
We feel good about the business but we’re not to the point where we would feel like we’re ready to ramp up to any significant degree.
Our next question comes from Matthew Howlett with UBS.
Just on the card payment rates I know they’ve remained elevated from years past.
And we looked at the master trust I know that doesn’t represent everything but it appears to be picking up a bit year over year.
Anything to say on that in terms of the guidance for loan growth? Do you expect sort of payment rates to remain in this range? Or how do you see consumer behavior changing? I expect it to be reasonably stable.
It obviously can jump around a little bit from time to time but I think the big story is credit is really good and so that tends to correlate with relatively high payment rates.
So you expect them to be flattish? I know yours are sort of in the middle.
You’re not the highest you’re not the lowest.
But sort of in this current range do we see lower payment rates when credit eventually normalizes? Is that sort of what happens? Generally it will move a little bit because of that.
And if you think about us relative to others we tend to focus a bit more on revolvers versus transactors which tend to have lower payment rates on revolvers.
So by definition a transactor is 100% payment rate.
And on the flipside we tend to have better credit which tends to drive higher payment rates.
And so those two are kind of competing forces to get us to where we are.
But I’m not expecting a big trend in that number.
I know there’s been a lot of questions on the card margin but you mentioned the mix shift with some of the balance transfers coming in.
Is that just a normalization? Is any of that being driven by competition? I know one of the big money center banks guided to the low end of their revenue margin for the year.
Any pricing dynamics changing there where more balance transfers could be introduced? No I would say the bigger dynamic is actually the replacement of the high rate bucket with standard rate product is actually a bigger driver at this point in time than the promotional activity itself.
So we’re tending to use the promotional activities more with the legacy portfolio as opposed to the new account side of the equation.
And standard merchandise sales are really the big driver of that yield compression sort of across both the new accounts and the portfolio.
Our next question comes from Mark DeVries of Barclays.
First question is around noninterest income.
Just wondering one if you could give us an update on where your direct mortgage pipeline is shaping up for the quarter.
And also whether you can provide us an update on where you stand on relaunching your protection products.
On the second question we have no current plans to relaunch protection products.
We’ll continue to evaluate.
And on the mortgage pipeline what I’d tell you is we haven’t traditionally disclosed our pipeline.
I guess what I’d say is what we have said is it tends to flip between accreting a penny and losing a penny a share a quarter and I would just say it’s going to be in that range again this next quarter just based on everything I see right now.
And then another question on your student lending credit.
I think Mark you indicated that it’s seasoning as you expected but both chargeoffs and delinquencies were down pretty substantially year over year.
Is there anything to call out there? Are you seeing credit improve on that book? I’d say we were generally pleased with the numbers this quarter.
That business partly because of its size and maturity and seasonality does tend to fluctuate a lot more quarter to quarter than our other businesses.
One of the things that we have done is put in place some programs to help students who might be struggling.
And we feel like we might be getting a little traction on some of those programs.
That’s good for both consumers and us.
But I think we need a few more data points to see how material our immaterial those can be.
The other thing I would just say is I think the employment market for graduates has continued to improve a bit.
So I’m certainly hopeful that that will portend good things for credit over the long term.
And thank you.
Our last question will come from Jason Arnold with RBC.
Just another quick follow up on the airline rewards card side.
I was just wondering if there’s any way you can size the broader industry opportunity set in airline rewards focused customers versus those that are more cash back or points reward focused.
And then if you could comment on the incremental opportunity for growth that you mentioned for Discover if that’s more of a product of that balance of focus there or if it’s just your focus on cash back reward and its being incremental? By far the largest airline rewards cards as you know are cobranded rewards cards for people that frequent a certain airline and are really heavy travelers.
And that’s a very sizable market.
It’s also one that there’s some very significant cobrand payments associated with it.
And I would say that’s generally not what we’re targeting with this product.
I’d say this product is targeting people that like the idea of earning travel rewards.
They may travel some but they’re not the global travelers who are being reimbursed by their company or just traveling very extensively on business.
So I would think about it as somewhat smaller market than either the traditional airline cobrand card or the traditional cash back category which we are a leader in and that will continue to be where our flagship card is.
So I feel like this a bit more of an important niche and an important second product for us.
We have no further questions.
At this time I will now turn the call over to Bill Franklin for final remarks.
We’d like to thank everyone for joining us.
If you have any other follow up questions feel free to give us a call tonight.
Have a good night.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Discover Financial Services Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference to Mr.
Bill Franklin Head of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you Abigail.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us.
Let me begin as always with slide two of our earnings presentation which is in the Investor Relations section of discover.com.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was furnished to the SEC in an 8-K report and in our 10-K and 10-Q which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the second quarter 2015 earnings materials we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call today will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
During the Q&amp;A period it would be very helpful if you limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up so we can make sure that everyone is accommodated.
So now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Thanks Bill.
Good evening everyone and I want to thank you all for joining us today.
For the second quarter we delivered net income of $599 million earnings per share of $1.33 and a return on equity of 21%.
Our net income this quarter benefited from a reserve release driven by a better outlook for our card credit.
Card net charge-off and delinquency rates improved as card members continue to be careful about managing their debt.
And we continue to take action to help them stay current.
At the same time consumer conservatism and lower gas prices have resulted in slow U.S.
retail sales growth and this along with heightened competition has resulted in a bit slower growth for our card sales and loans.
Despite these headwinds to sales we once again achieved another quarter of solid loan growth building upon more than four years of quarterly card loan growth.
Discover achieved total loan growth of 5% over the prior year which was driven by growth in card loans personal loans and private student loans.
Specifically we grew card receivables by 4% in the middle of our targeted range.
Card sales volume for the quarter was up 2%.
Excluding the impact of gas prices sales were up approximately 5%.
Our loan growth continues to be driven by a combination of wallet share gains with new accounts and existing customers.
Despite a competitive environment new account growth accelerated through the quarter as we launched our double rewards offer to new Discover it customers.
In addition to launching new rewards promotions in the quarter we also introduced new features for our card members.
For example we launched our Freeze It capability which essentially allows customers to turn on or off their card in the event that it is misplaced.
Over 100 000 customers have tried this feature since launch.
We also announced that our card members will be able to use Apple Pay and Android Pay in the near future.
Our goal is to provide our customers the freedom options and simplicity of making mobile payments with whatever method they choose.
Mobile payments and digital in all their forms will continue to be an opportunity to further engage with our card members and we continue to invest in these capabilities.
Turning to other direct lending products the organic student loan portfolio increased 19% and personal loans grew 13% over the prior year.
Both are on track for record originations in 2015 as we launch additional marketing programs with student loans during peak season and as we see increased personal loan applications from the broad market.
On the regulatory front this week the CFPB and the FDIC announced that they have released us from the protection products consent orders which we entered into with them a few years ago.
This morning we announced a consent order with the CFPB regarding certain student loan servicing practices.
You may remember that we had previously disclosed a CID related to this matter early last year.
And we fully accrued for this in the first quarter of 2015.
Finally on the AML/BSA and general compliance fronts we have noted significant expenses this quarter related to our continuing focus on meeting all regulatory expectations from our regulators.
Focusing on payments total volume was down 3% as increases in our proprietary volume and growth in our business-to-business volume were not enough to offset year-over-year declines at PULSE.
The decreased volume at PULSE was mainly due to the previously announced loss of volume from a large debit issuer.
On a reported basis Diners volume was roughly flat.
However adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange rates Diners volume was up more than 10% year-over-year driven by strong results in several regions especially Asia Pacific.
Lastly we rebalanced our portfolio of activities in the second quarter.
In Direct Banking we announced the exit of our Home Loans business.
In payments and specifically within Diners we announced the sale of our Diners Club Italy franchise to Cornèr's Bank (sic) [Cornèr Bank] (6:09) and announced a new Diners Club franchisee in Turkey.
We are committed to our vision to be the leading direct bank and payments partner and continue to take steps towards achieving this vision.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark and he will walk through the details of our second quarter results.
Thanks David and good evening everyone.
I'll start by going through the revenue detail on slide five of our earnings presentation.
Total company net revenues this quarter were roughly flat on a year-over-year basis as higher net interest income was offset by lower fee income.
Net interest income increased $47 million or 3% over the prior year driven by continued loan growth.
Total non-interest income decreased $44 million to $539 million driven primarily by lower net discount and interchange revenue and a decline in protection products revenue.
Net discount and interchange revenue was down 9% driven by a higher rewards rate year-over-year.
Our rewards rate for the quarter was 105 basis points.
On a reported basis the rate was up 14 basis points year-over-year due to higher promotional rewards and the elimination of the rewards forfeiture reserve in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Sequentially the rate increased 3 basis points.
In both cases the increase was driven by higher enrollment and spend in our rotating 5% cashback category.
Protection products revenue declined $10 million as new product sales remained suspended consistent with prior quarters.
Moving to Payment Services revenue decreased $9 million from the prior year due to the previously announced loss of volume from a large debit issuer which David referenced earlier.
This loss is now largely reflected in the run rate going forward and will impact year-over-year comparisons for the next year.
Turning to slide six total loan yield of 11.35% was 7 basis points lower than the prior year primarily driven by a 6 basis point decrease in card yield.
The year-over-year decrease in card yield reflects a small shift in portfolio mix as high rate balances continue to be replaced by standard rate balances.
Personal loan yield decreased from the prior year as more customers opt for shorter term consolidation loans and we also instituted some select pricing changes.
Funding costs increased 9 basis points as a result of actions taken in prior quarters to extend funding duration.
In aggregate these factors resulted in a 21 basis point decrease in net interest margin from the prior year to 9.63% in line with our expectations.
Turning to slide seven operating expenses were up $130 million over the prior year partially driven by higher regulatory and compliance costs.
Employee compensation increased $25 million due primarily to higher head count to support regulatory and compliance needs.
Reported marketing expenses increased $31 million $17 million of which was due to the discontinuation of a longstanding annual postage rebate that we typically received in the second quarter.
Marketing expenses were also impacted by a shift in the timing of campaigns as compared to last year.
Professional fees increased $41 million due in part to approximately $20 million in fees associated with anti-money laundering remediation activities and another $10 million in compliance program enhancements.
Other expense increased $29 million driven by $23 million in one-time charges associated with the exit of our Home Loans business.
We expect additional wind-down in restructuring expenses of approximately $25 million to $30 million in the second half of the year and we currently expect a fourth quarter tax benefit related to exiting the business that will essentially offset these additional expenses.
For the quarter our total company efficiency ratio was 42.5%.
Excluding the two unusual items I mentioned earlier the total company efficiency ratio was roughly 40.5%.
On an adjusted basis this is higher than where we want to be in the long-term.
With everything we now know including the charges related to exiting Home Loans the legal reserve that occurred in the first quarter the loss of the postal rebate as well as a modest increase in our outlook for compliance-related costs we expect our as-reported expenses to be approximately $3.6 billion for the full year versus our prior guidance of $3.5 billion.
We continue to expect that operating expenses will decrease in 2016.
Turning to provision for loan losses and credit on slide eight provision for loan losses was lower by $54 million compared to the prior year due to a reserve release partially offset by higher charge-offs.
This quarter we reduced reserves by $41 million while last year we had a $23 million reserve build for the same period.
This quarter's release was driven by a better credit outlook as overall card member health continues to improve in part driven by lower gas prices and higher household cash flows.
The credit card net charge-off rate decreased by 12 basis points from the prior quarter and by 5 basis points year-over-year to 2.28%.
The 30-plus-day delinquency rate of 1.55% declined relative to both the prior quarter and the prior year reaching a new record low.
The private student loan net charge-off rate excluding purchase loans decreased 28 basis points from the prior year as we continue to benefit from more efficient collection strategies as well as the introduction of several new payment plans over the last year.
Student loan delinquencies once again excluding acquired loans increased 12 basis points to 1.78%.
Overall the student loan portfolio continues to season generally in line with our expectations.
Switching to personal loans the net charge-off rate was up 15 basis points from the prior year and the over 30-day delinquency rate was up 5 basis points to 71 basis points.
The year-over-year increase in the personal loan charge-off rate was primarily driven by the seasoning of loan growth.
We had mentioned at our annual Financial Community Briefing in May that we were seeing the potential for credit to be better than we expected at the beginning of the year.
We are now comfortable that the underlying financial health of our card members will indeed produce credit results better than we originally anticipated.
While the book continues to season we do expect our provision rate for the full year to be better than our prior expectations of 2.5% as the credit backdrop remains remarkably benign.
One last item I'll call out on the income statement is that we were able to recognize some tax benefits which reduced our effective tax rate to 36.4% for the quarter.
Looking forward there may be some minor fluctuations quarter-to-quarter as we are able to favorably resolve other tax matters.
To close things out I'll touch on our capital position on slide nine.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio decreased sequentially by 30 basis points to 14.4% due to loan growth and capital deployment.
During the quarter we repurchased $425 million of common shares.
In summary the health of our card members continues to be strong which will be a positive for our credit performance.
This goodness will be largely offset on the expense line which will be elevated as we continue to address regulatory matters and wind-down the mortgage business.
The competitive environment continues to intensify while retail sales growth has been slower than expected.
As the environment evolves we will address both opportunities and risks that it presents with a continuing focus on driving long-term shareholder value.
That concludes our formal remarks so I'll turn the call back to our operator Abigail to open the line up for Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Great.
Thanks.
I appreciate that the spending volume you had said was constrained by about 300 basis points and that your margin is still under pressure but you've kind of put a 9.5% kind of floor there.
Could you talk a little bit about what steps you're taking given all of the expenses that are building this year to kind of improve profitability? Or do we just – I mean is it just that we kind of have to wait for those factors to abate? Could you just discuss your thoughts there? Moshe this is David.
Some of the actions that we're taking now are designed to position us well for the future even in some cases sacrificing near-term profitability.
So the preparation for a rising rate environment on the funding side is costing us a bit of net revenue right now but we think it's the right thing to do for long-term earnings growth.
The exit of the Home Loans business will help our efficiency ratio going forward and certainly we didn't see a path to producing adequate profitability in that business.
And some of the marketing changes and cash rewards investments that we're making now are designed to drive growth and return long-term profitability.
So it's focusing on long-term shareholder value as Mark mentioned.
Moshe all I'd really tack on to that is a big pressure right now is obviously on the expense front and its regulatory expenses.
They were significant in the quarter.
They continue to be a pressure point.
We're committed to a constructive relationship with our regulators and making sure that we are operating in accordance with their expectations but right now that's clearly a drag on profitability.
Right.
So just to follow up and maybe I was just a little too general in the question is there a way that you could identify the effects of things that you expect to either abate or turn around in 2016 you're talking about the expenses on some of these compliance the wind-down of the mortgage perhaps if you would consider the costs of kind of preparing for the rising rate environment? I mean would you – is there a way to do that? Yeah so let's talk about a couple of those specifically Moshe to really hit on the – very pointedly on your question.
I would say let's take a look at the expense growth of $130 million right? So $23 million of that is related to the exit of the Home Loans business non-recurring; $17 million of it is related to the postal rebate that we have historically received kind of going away.
Right? So that takes me down to an adjusted number.
Then take out another $8 million for EMV costs that we incurred in the quarter give or take.
It takes me down to an adjusted $82 million.
There's about call it another $40 million in various and sundry different regulatory related costs that are in there.
That gets me down to an adjusted – rough math now mind you but for the sake of the call here – an adjusted expense growth number of $42 million as opposed to the headline number of $130 million.
Right? So I think that's kind of a key piece of the puzzle to look at.
If you talk about the funding side of the equation I appreciate your earlier comment noting that the compression in NIM was kind of in line with our prior guidance.
We did not take any further activities in this most recent quarter to further extend in any way our funding durations.
So the compression you're seeing is a result of actions we've already taken to position the balance sheet.
There's no more further pressure coming from that other than as the quarters roll and you get the comps with that higher funding cost in there it will be there and that's why we've given the guidance down to 9.5% going forward.
So hopefully on the NIM side hopefully on the expense side that gives you some key pieces that will help you develop some comfort there.
Thanks so much.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
I just wanted to touch on loan growth for a moment and card loan growth in particular.
Obviously we're still sort of towards the high-end of the range but we've seen some deceleration in the past couple of quarters.
Can you just speak to is that some selective pulling back from some customer segments? Is that increased competition? How should we think about that and are we sort of at a stable level here or should we think about more to come? Well I think this quarter we moved back a bit to the middle of our range.
And we cited the broad retail sales growth across the country that decelerated this quarter.
And we saw that in many of our competitor announcements as well.
We also saw the continuing impact of gas prices which has impact sales and to a lesser degree loans.
And I would acknowledge that it is more competitive now than it probably was a few years ago.
We have been at the top end of our range and the top of the industry for now the last four years.
And so while on the one hand we're still in the middle of our range a lot of the actions we talked about are designed to try to accelerate that because I'd rather find a way to get it back to the top of the range.
And that includes the double cash rewards on our Discover it program which has seen good results in the early weeks of that program our new Miles program additional marketing spend additional features like the on/off functionality that's unique on our card.
So we're taking a lot of actions to try to accelerate loan growth but I'm pleased that we were in the middle of the range.
Really helpful color.
Thank you.
I just wanted – and secondly on the personal lending I think you mentioned some change in the pricing strategy.
Is that sort of related to some of the marketplace lending that's coming about? Or more to do with changing consumer preferences for term and shorter duration? Well we – I think it's pretty modest that portion of it.
The duration average duration is the bigger part.
But I mentioned that we're expecting all-time record loan originations this year.
And so I think that we are looking to continue to grow that business because it's – unlike some of the new competitors – we're quite profitable and we're growing.
And we want to keep taking advantage of our capabilities in the prime segment within personal loans.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Your line is open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thank you.
I guess David you mentioned the heightened competition in the press release.
And obviously we're seeing it in our mailboxes as well.
Could you just talk about how different it is versus what you planned for at the beginning of this year? And kind of how it's affecting the financials going forward? I mean I notice the rewards cost edged up pretty significantly sequentially.
So maybe you could just talk about how that's expected to trend going forward Mark? Thanks.
Well and I mentioned competition is just one factor.
And I'm not sure it's so much different than what we planned for.
It's just a factor that makes it harder to grow as fast as we'd like.
I think that it's still – if you look at mailboxes there's still a lot less intensity than there was pre-crisis.
But I – and there's fewer players here post-crisis left in the market.
It's consolidated.
But I think that some of the players that were really wounded from maybe credit mistakes and problems that they had made are kind of getting through those and are coming back in the market.
And I think it's not lost on a lot of players that card returns are much higher than almost anything else in banking.
And therefore it's an attractive place to compete.
And so we are used to facing competition.
We've done it for 30 years successfully.
And so we view it as a challenge that we're up to.
Yeah.
I would say Sanjay just adding onto that the only thing I would say that has changed since the planning time is our expectations for overall retail sales growth.
At the time we cut our plan last fall Moody's all the external providers were basically expecting a much stronger retail sales growth climate than we're actually finding ourselves in today.
So I would say that is the one major factor that has altered.
In response to your specific question on rewards categories I would say this quarter the driver was active engagement enrollment and the 5% rotating cashback category was the principal driver.
I think for the full year the guidance we gave is we expected the rewards rate to be in the 105 basis point range.
I don't see any reason to point you to something radically different.
If there is any upward pressure on rewards costs I would say it's 1 basis point or 2 basis points above and beyond that possibly.
But nothing of significant magnitude from a rewards standpoint there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And Mark could I ask one follow-up question? Just on the NIM and the tax rate could you just drill-down a little bit? Like just if you could give us more a specific cadence there that would be great.
Yeah.
So the NIM I think last quarter we saw from first quarter – from fourth quarter into first quarter we saw 7 basis points of compression.
And I think we guided on the last call that we expected to see similar compression this quarter which would have taken us from 9.69% to 9.62% and we printed a 9.63%.
So I feel like we're pretty much in line with the cadence we were kind of calling out.
We do see further compression over the course of the remaining two quarters we're looking at going forward.
But we still see ourselves remaining above a 9.5% NIM.
I think if you want to use a linear approach to getting there Sanjay that's probably not a crazy way to think about modeling things I would say.
And then on the tax rate scenario I would say the good guide this quarter was simply related to a resolution of a tax matter with a taxing authority.
And it was just kind of one of those things that you'll have from time-to-time as you get favorable resolutions to matters that you've reserved for.
So kind of hard for me to kind of guide you in terms of what that looks like going forward for when we might see other such things.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Brendler with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking my question.
I'm going to focus on the competitive environment for a second Mark.
We talked about some of the higher spending customers may be getting poached away by some of the aggressive rewards offers out there.
I just want to see from a strategic standpoint is that getting worse or is it sort of stabilizing especially if you think about some of the increased efforts you've made on the rewards side both in this quarter's results and also the double promotional points on it.
Are you targeting to get back to the kind of growth you were experiencing in purchase volumes sort of more in line with the industry or are you okay letting some of this business go? Well I would say that our objective is to get sales growing a little faster.
It was – ex gas it was 5% and as we get to the end of the fourth quarter that's when I would expect the gas thing to stop being something we talk so much about because it'll be in the end-of-the-year comps.
But 5% ex gas is still above retail sales growth but if we can find ways to get that even higher than that above retail sales growth we will take actions to do so.
And certainly some of our new rewards programs marketing and so on are designed to do that.
The one thing is we're not going to – we are focused on sustainability.
We're not going to be entering an arms war.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Just from a strategic standpoint David is it fair to say at this point in the cycle that the majority of your revenue growth will come from some of the other products rather than card or is card still going to be the engine for growth here? Both are going to be engines for growth.
The card is going to be quite important because of its base size.
The other products are going to tend to grow faster than card but from a lower base.
So as we look out over the next year the next three years we need to maximize our profitable growth in all of our products.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I look forward to that.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Don Fandetti with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> David as the Fed looks like it's about to potentially raise rates how are you – how do you think the card industry is going to react in terms of card yields? Do you expect a sort of full 100 basis point asset beta or do you think some of the competitors might actually create a stickier yield to where that doesn't necessarily get passed through knowing they're all floating rate loans? No.
I mean post-CARD Act as far as I know all cards are variable rate and so we'll immediately reset upward.
I think if you just focus narrowly on new account pricing it might not be a perfect beta.
But I would expect those rates to also go up and it would certainly take a number of years for that to really filter into the portfolio.
So I think that it'll immediately adjust up.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Hecht with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Yeah thanks very much.
In your prepared remarks you guys talked about I think it was somewhat tied that you're seeing the customers still reticent to spend much to maybe lever up a little bit and at the same time you're seeing improved near-term credit outlook because delinquencies and loss trends.
If those are tied together at this point are you – is it possible that there's been a permanent shift or at least an intermediate term shift in customer trends? And if so does that change long term expectations for both credit and loan growth opportunities? I think that – I guess I would answer that as yes.
We've already seen that and I don't think it's going to go back to pre-crisis.
We're not counting on huge loan growth in our industry in cards but we also think that the new normal for credit is significantly different than pre-crisis.
I think that consumer behavior has had a certain amount of permanent change as well as some of what competitors are willing to offer.
You just don't see a lot of subprime players the way it existed in the past.
And so the good news is that the industry is – feels like it's going to start returning to slow growth and that's a lot different than the shrinkage we've seen for a number of years.
And even as it does that credit remains amazingly benign.
And for us to achieve actual reduction in charge-off and delinquencies despite our loan growth this quarter this far away from the crisis I think is remarkable.
And as a little follow on to that would that over time maybe give you an opportunity to go a little down market you know even if you did it very carefully just because it's possible that there's some increased demographic you could approach given the better outlook for overall credit? Let me parse it two ways.
Right now the players who are in retailer and subprime kind of credit are seeing a pretty big resurgence in growth.
But it's not a market that I'm particularly focused on.
We're just not a subprime player.
Now at the same time as credit and behavior gets worked into the models and given customers have lower risk it opens up the universe a bit of people that could have prime performance that maybe in the past we might not have been as confident that they would have had prime performance.
So at the margin we are looking for opportunities to expand our prime universe particularly both in cards and personal loans.
Great.
That's very helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
Mark thank you for the stratification of the drivers of the increased costs in the period.
Just to focus in on that $40 million of regulatory costs did that include both the personnel related component as well as the professional fee component? Or was it just one or the other? And I guess what I'm really trying to get to is what part of it is going to be sort of sustainable and recurring and what part of it can diminish? Absolutely.
So let me kind of give you how I'm getting to that rough $40 million number ballpark and again these are rough numbers.
They're not sniper rifle estimates.
So you've got about $20 million directly related to the look-back that's been mandated in our regulatory consents.
There was about another $5 million in what I will call general compliance type activity.
There's about $5 million expense related to our information technology group and work they needed to do related to certain compliance related activities.
And then there's about $10 million in what I would call non-volume head count that has come into the model over the course of the last year directly – it's really more second and third order effects.
So you don't see these people sitting in compliance you don't see these people sitting in corporate risk but the people in compliance and corporate risk are looking for more information more reporting more activity.
So that's driving second and third order effects downstream.
I'm for my purposes classifying that as what I'll call regulatory compliance related activity as well.
So if you look about the – if you look at it net-net certainly 50% of that increase is non-recurring beyond this year as we get through that look-back type activities.
I think we'd all be hopeful that we'd have the ability to pare back some portion of that additional 50% as we get this activity layered in.
The head count is not coming out which was $10 million of it and I'm sure there will be some ongoing related activity as well.
So I don't have the precise number to give you.
Clearly 50% of it is non-recurring.
I'm comfortable saying that some portion of the remainder is non-recurring.
What I can't do is give you a real sniper rifle estimate on what the tail on that looks like.
Thanks.
Very helpful.
Thanks very much.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
Mark I was hoping I could get you to be a little bit more specific on the revised guidance around the provision.
I think you indicated you expect it to be better than the 2.5% prior guidance but given how low the first half run rate is you could technically be above that run rate in the second half and still meet your guidance but that certainly doesn't seem reasonable given that credit still remains really benign.
Is there any kind of specifics you can give us on what you think the provision rate might look like? Very fair question.
I would say Mark at this point in time that's one of the things we're trying to get behind ourselves as we kind of see this new normal credit environment creeping in that's offsetting the seasoning.
So I'm not prepared at this point in time to give you a new provision rate but I would kind of highlight one of the things that I pointed out in our prepared remarks when I kind of said we're going to have this increased level of expenses rounding from $3.5 billion to $3.6 billion because of some of these additional things that have come at us.
But we do expect the goodness on the credit side relative to that provision guidance will pay for that.
Right? So comfortable going that far at this point in time.
Beyond that we need to see a little bit more history a little bit more activity to get a better sense on that front.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But are you seeing anything in the data right now that would suggest a materially higher run rate in the second half of the year relative to where we've been in the first half of the year? We're continuing to see the book season which is the key piece of the puzzle.
The fundamental question is really on the consumer behavior side of the equation that I don't think we have enough history with yet to really be able to sniper rifle – give you a sniper rifle estimate on that.
So again I just – I don't want to give you guidance that I'm not comfortable with myself yet because we don't have all the ticking and tying done ourselves.
I am comfortable telling you it's going to better than that 2.5%.
I'm comfortable saying it'll pay for the expense increase.
That goodness will pay for the increased expense guidance.
Is there possibility it could be more than that? Yes there's clearly a possibility it could be more than that but I need to get a little more facts on my side because I don't want to mislead you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay got it.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good evening guys.
I guess on my first question Mark you noted in the prepared remarks on efficiency that you weren't happy with the level at which you were at and you walked through some of the math.
But I guess my question is as you think ahead to 2016 do you think the 38% efficiency target is achievable given all the moving parts on expenses? Clearly we don't know what the rate environment is going to look like which could help the overall run rate but I was just interested in what your early thoughts are on that looking ahead? Yeah Ryan I would kind of say it's a long term target that we want to hit and that we try to run the business model at.
It's too early for me to give you guidance in next year in terms of where I think it's really going to come out because there's going to be some – obviously some puts and takes as we go through our strategic planning process and our budgeting process for the year as well where we'll look to take some expenses out of the model.
I think we'll probably look to make some growth investments and I just don't know how all those are going to shake out at this point in time.
I'm very confident telling you that as a management team we're not happy with an adjusted efficiency ratio with a 40% tag associated with it.
I'm very confident that a significant chunk of the expenses in the model right now are non-recurring.
But in terms of giving you guidance on exactly how close we're going to be to that 38% either up above or below it it's just too early for me to give you that.
And just maybe one follow-up financial question.
I just wanted to make sure I fully understood the net interest margin outlook.
Was that for the rest of this year or through 2016? And you made a comment earlier about some of the higher rates in the loan book are being replaced by standard rates.
How far through the repricing process? Does it feel like we're getting close to the end on that? And how much of an impact is that actually having on the overall net interest margin? So I would say a couple things Ryan.
The net interest margin guidance I said – I think what we said is it'll stay above 9.5% at least through the end of 2016.
So that's one where we have gone out a little bit further on our guidance at this point in time and I'm comfortable really kind of saying I feel comfortable with that at this juncture.
In terms of the impact of the remixing of the portfolio and the impact to that I would say in a post-CARD Act environment the only balances you get to reprice up – or you get to price up are balances – new balances created after such point in time as that customer goes 60 days delinquent.
So you obviously don't refill that higher rate bucket very much.
So I think you'll see continued movement out of that promotional category – or out of the high rate bucket rather – into the standard rate category.
And that is a big factor in the driving of the margin compression candidly down to that 9.5% level.
Got it.
Thanks for taking my question.
You betcha.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Mark on the double rewards I don't believe you guys are making those rewards available to customers until they've been with you for a year.
But is the cost of those double rewards hitting the rewards expense line now? Or is that going to come later? Yes.
That's being accrued in the rewards expense line.
You got to accrue that on the fly.
So we are handling that accrual and it is in the numbers you see.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So earlier you had mentioned that one of the things that drove the rewards higher this quarter was the 5% cash back category.
But that would – another factor would be the double rewards contributing to the higher rewards expense this quarter? Is that correct? Yeah.
I would say that's absolutely mathematically correct.
I would tell you it's a relatively small number because it's really spending only related to new accounts.
Right? So you got the installed base is one issue but then you got the new account activity that's qualifying for it as well.
So I would say the driver is clearly not the double.
The driver was clearly where the 5% category was this quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Valentin with FBR Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much for taking my question.
With regard to the student loan the settlement I guess or the fine the CFPB announced is that going to have any material impact on servicing expense of student loans going forward or the profitability of the student loans going forward? No.
It related to some practices that we actually changed a while back so everything is in the run rate.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up question on M&amp;A.
In the past you've mentioned you look at adjacent kind of businesses to consumer lending.
And just wondering if you continue to look? And maybe what areas you're looking in? Or what areas you see as interesting right now? So I would say in terms of the areas where we would look those would be the areas we would generally look.
We obviously don't give any specific thoughts on M&amp;A type related matters other than at this point in time I would say we've gone on the record and said while we're under a BSA/AML consent order it's unlikely we would look to M&amp;A type activities.
I think we kind of feel we have to get that one rectified.
But I think in terms of generally where we would devote our attentions yeah I think natural adjacencies where we can lever strengths we have internally as opposed to trying to take quantum leaps and say entering the commercial real estate lending business or something.
That doesn't feel like our DNA.
Okay.
All right thanks very much.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Ho with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good evening guys.
I just want to get a sense of how you measure the payback for some of these new card features.
Does it really lower the cost of acquisition for new customers? Or maybe change the revolving (44:00) or spend patterns relative to some of the legacy cards? And then going forward as you lap some of these expense headwinds you mentioned perhaps a little more incremental investment.
Is that the case? Do you expect to see additional opportunities in 2016 to really deploy? And kind of where do you think the best dollars would be most efficiently used there? So David I'll handle the first half and have Mark handle your second question.
We look carefully at the net present value expected from all of our accounts.
And then we – when we make changes we run those through.
And we try it and we test.
And we work to maximize the long-term profitability of any action we take.
Certainly one of those actions and some of our actions do help our cost per account.
And even though we've mentioned heightened competition a couple times on this call you normally would see all other things equal that that would show up as higher acquisition costs and we have not seen that at this point.
We've actually seen slightly lower average cost per account in our card business this year than in the past.
And that's partly because of the marketing and feature functionality that we've taken.
We also see – when we see different performance in some of our products like our extension into Discover it Miles has significantly higher average sales volume per new account.
That comes back into the P&amp;L.
And for those accounts we could actually afford to pay a little more if we're going to get more over the long term.
So we look at every activity with its own P&amp;L.
And Mark maybe you can hit on the second question on capital buyback? Oh absolutely.
Yeah so on the buyback activity what I would say is we continue to be very focused on producing high yield.
I think we got close to a 9% total yield right now between dividends and buybacks.
We clearly recognize we have too much capital at this point in time and within the constraints of the regulatory process and the CCAR process we are very focused on finding ways to return that capital to shareholders.
David was there anything else on capital? Inc.</span></strong> Well I was actually more focusing on kind of where you think the best marketing opportunities would be in 2016.
Oh for deployment.
I'm sorry.
I misunderstood the question.
My apologies David.
So in terms of the best opportunities for deploying it I think you see us making a lot of those investments today in the it platform right now would be one key piece of the puzzle I would say is a good place for deploying that capital.
We continue to as David noted earlier to see great CPAs and very active engaged card member behavior there.
I think there's a lot of investments going into digital right now digital and mobile platforms.
Our key focus on the information technology side and investments being made there very heavily.
I think in the non-card lending businesses the direct banking businesses I think digital investments there are also forefront critical and are consuming capital at this point in time and we're seeing good returns associated with those.
And I think you already know we're actively engaged in migrating all of our banking platform products to a new core banking system as well.
So that's a driver also.
So we watch the expected payback and the budgets associated with all these projects very very closely and I'm comfortable that we continue to have a disciplined process around the investments we're making.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Napoli with William Blair.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Just on the – so I wasn't clear on the postage rebate the $17 million.
Is that a quarterly or an annual number that rebate that you were getting? It was an annual number Bob that tended to generally fall into the second quarter.
It was $17 million last year.
So the increase this year is pulling up that comp.
It varied year-to-year but last year it was $17 million and this year the postal service chose to not renew that rebate.
So it's a once-a-year kind of thing.
It'll adjust this year and then it will be out of the run rate going forward.
Okay.
And then as we look at the marketing spend in the back half of the year kind of the similar trend to what we've seen like say last year the ramp-up from – I mean you wouldn't have the same ramp-up I guess because of the $17 million but the same general trend in the back half of the year.
You're not expecting any change in marketing trend? No.
I actually think the marketing expense kind of hit its high watermark this quarter for the year.
We'll actually – I mentioned in my prepared remarks that we had some timing differences in campaigns.
So I think you've seen the marketing expense hit its high watermark over the course of the year.
It'll down a little bit from here although it'll be higher in the fourth quarter than the third.
Okay.
Are you seeing anything alarming in the student loan portfolio? Student loan player had brought – had some issues on the credit side with a certain portfolio that was going back into payment.
Have you seen anything alarming in your student loan portfolio from a credit perspective? No we haven't.
Okay.
And then just last question Ariba is that going to be a material business the B2B business? And over what timeframe could it become material? I think in the short- and medium-term it could become material volume we hope.
I think I would not expect material profitability or revenues any time soon it is B2B.
It's low margin but it's a huge market.
And so over the long period of time we hope to build some very large significant volumes and there may be the potential for some ancillary related services that could also be profitable.
Have you been adding new corporations to that business? Yes.
I know you signed one very large partner.
We have been adding additional participants.
All right.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Donat with Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is open.
Sure.
I wanted to ask one question around the credit quality and I understand it's better than you'd expected.
As we look at the master trust data in your early stage delinquencies I see that in that bucket delinquency rates around 40 basis points historically low by your standards.
Should we still be though thinking about your broader portfolio so not just the master trust subset as reflecting something a little different than that? Because I have trouble making the math work to go from like 40 basis points early stage delinquencies to the kind of provision you're talking about.
Yeah.
So I would say there is – Chris there is a discrepancy between the master trust and the managed book.
So if you think about the master book I think we're coming up on or have just lapped six years since we have added any new accounts to that.
So it's a very well-seasoned book.
And one of the things you'll see in a well-seasoned book is on a like-for-like basis so if you have a FICO score – just pick a random number – a 750 FICO account that's brand-new and a 750 FICO account that's been with you for 10 years the 750 that's been with you for 10 years performs better.
I don't think that's unique to Discover.
I think that's just a phenomena you see in the consumer lending space.
So there definitely is a disconnect between the performance of a well-seasoned book and the seasoning of a newly acquired book that you put on there.
So absolutely there is a disconnect there.
That's why we give you some of the managed data as well along with those master trust releases on a monthly basis so that you can kind of get a little bit of insight into there.
Got it.
Okay.
And then separately here just thinking about reward spending and your quarterly promotions there this quarter you've got one with Amazon and I think a couple years ago when you did a promotion with Amazon and maybe a broader mix of online merchants around the fourth quarter you had an elevated rewards level.
Anyway any early reaction to having Amazon in the mix for about three weeks here? It seems like it interacts very well with your customer base.
It interacts very well with the customer base.
We have a great relationship with that firm as well.
I guess what I would say is that fourth quarter from a few years back was the result of a very broad category.
This is targeted specifically at Amazon and no I'm not concerned about a repeat of that event from several years ago.
Yeah Amazon and home improvement.
Okay.
Correct.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of David Hochstim with Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I had a question sort of a follow up to the comments David made earlier about competition and consumer behavior.
I wonder at the margin given your very high returns and very low charge-off and delinquency rate is it possible to I guess modify your credit standards slightly and increase growth or is there just a sharp drop-off in the behavior of customers? And as Mark you just mentioned you do a lot better with seasoned customers than new customers.
I guess I wonder what the tradeoff's like and if you can update us on the mix how much of the portfolio today at the end of the second quarter is relatively new and how much is older.
Yeah I think we had an earlier question kind of on that.
I think at the margin I do think there is some opportunity to take a little more risk to get a little more growth to increase profitability.
And in some cases it's really taking the same risk but we're basically being able to expand the credit bucket a bit given the confidence that some of those consumer behavioral change that has occurred is here for an extended period of time.
The only thing I would say is I wouldn't take the leap that we're going to suddenly do giant line increases to drive a huge amount of growth because that will usually come back and bite you.
We're not going to just jump into subprime to accelerate growth.
So I would just emphasize modest and at the margin and we're always looking for opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> And how much of the portfolio are the two accounts that are more than let's say three years old at this point or two years old? Our average customer has been with us for 12 years which is we believe the highest in the industry.
It's one of the reasons our credit is so good.
Our focus on service as well as having great credit quality helped with that.
About 17% of our book is three years or less of age.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason Harbes with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good evening.
Good evening.
Just quick question on the recent decision to exit the direct mortgage business.
You called out some of the charges you took this quarter as well as some additional charges in the back half.
It sounds like those will be offset by a tax benefit.
But just for modeling purposes what was the amount of fee income you booked from that business and any associated expenses that presumably will roll-off over the course of the next six months or so? Yeah so I'll point you back to some other places to kind of compose it.
So in terms of revenues we've published mortgage revenue in the 10-Qs historically and it was roughly plus or minus $80 million on an annual basis give or take.
And then I would say the other thing I'd point you toward is we kind of said that the business was roughly operating at a break-even level.
So I think that kind of gets you to sort of how to adjust your model as you're looking into 2016 more or less.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then maybe just a follow up on Diners Club maybe just an update on what your expectations are for that business? I think typically you see some favorable seasonality in the fee income line from Diners.
I just wanted to get an update.
Sure.
I think we don't – I think you could look back at previous seasonality where it's typically the revenue's front-end loaded in the first quarter and we don't really see that changing.
I guess the thing I feel good about on Diners is we've had to take a lot of actions to get stronger franchises in certain markets to deal with Citi exiting in certain markets that they were in to deal with the economy in Europe and it feels like we're on a much more level to growing field.
We're back in the double-digit growth on volume.
We're seeing some very nice volumes out of our Chinese Indian and certain other franchises Japanese is growing nicely.
And we've gotten – we had to step in there at the Italian situation.
We've now got a buyer so we're back into just operating the network everywhere once we close that.
So Diners is still a relatively small part of the overall profit picture but nonetheless it feels like a much more positive trajectory.
Thanks guys.
I'd like to turn the call back to Bill Franklin for further remarks Thank you Abigail.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us late this evening.
If you have any follow up questions feel free to give the IR team a call.
Have a good night.
Thank you all.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Discover Financial Services Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would like to introduce your host for today's conference Bill Franklin Head of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference sir.
Thank you Michelle.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us.
Let me begin as always with slide two of our earnings presentation which is in the Investor Relations section of discover.com.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was provided to the SEC today in an 8-K report and in our 10-K and 10-Q which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the third quarter 2015 earnings materials we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call today will include formal remarks from Roger Hochschild our President and Chief Operating Officer and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
During the Q&amp;A period it would be very helpful if you limit yourself to one question and one related follow-up so we can make sure that everyone is accommodated.
So now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to Roger.
Thanks Bill.
Good evening everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Unfortunately David had a conflict and is unable to join us.
I'll be standing in for him this evening but you'll see David again soon at the Bank of America Conference on November 18.
For the third quarter we delivered net income of $612 million earnings per share of $1.38 and a return on equity of 22%.
Our net income this quarter benefited from a continued favorable credit environment resulting in record low card and total company net charge-off rates.
We reported 2.6% card sales growth over the prior year.
However our sales excluding gas increased 7% as card member gas purchases were down over 30% in the quarter.
We believe this period had the largest impact from gas sales as the comparison to last year gets slightly easier in the fourth quarter.
Despite these headwinds to sales we once again achieved another quarter of solid loan growth.
Specifically we grew card receivables by 4% in the middle of our targeted range.
We'd like to see this accelerate and are taking a disciplined profitable approach to drive new accounts and loan growth going forward.
To that end we achieved the highest quarterly level of new accounts since the third quarter of 2007 despite the heightened competitive environment.
As we continue to focus on driving more new accounts and increasing wallet share with existing customers we extended our promotional double rewards program for new accounts and we introduced a new Apple Pay promotion to help drive mobile wallet adoption.
And we had some big news this quarter.
We were ranked the highest for customer satisfaction with credit card companies in the 2015 J.D.
Power survey for credit cards.
This was the culmination of years of effort in every aspect of the customer experience and I want to acknowledge the hard work of our nearly 15 000 employees.
Turning to other direct lending products our organic private student loan portfolio increased 17% and personal loans grew 12% over the prior year.
Both are on track for record originations in 2015 as we had a strong peak season in student loans and are seeing increased personal loan applications from the broad market.
Focusing on payments total volume was down 3% as increases in our proprietary volume and growth in our business-to-business volume were not enough to offset year-over-year declines at PULSE.
The decrease in volume at PULSE was mainly due to the previously announced loss of volume from a large debit issuer.
On a reported basis Diners volume was down 3%.
However adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange rates Diners volume was up more than 10% year-over-year driven by strong results in several regions especially Asia Pacific.
On October 1 we completed the sale of our Diners Club Italy franchise to Cornèr Bank.
As we previously indicated we do not plan to be the long-term owner of the business and we look forward to working with our new partner going forward.
In other global payments activities during the quarter we signed several new agreements including a new net-to-net partnership with Elo the largest Brazilian credit card brand.
All-in-all it was a good quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mark and he'll walk through the details of our third quarter results.
Thanks Roger and good evening everyone.
I'll start by going through the revenue detail on slide five of our earnings presentation.
Total company net revenues this quarter were roughly flat on a year-over-year basis as higher net interest income was offset by lower fee income.
Net interest income increased $47 million or 3% over the prior year driven by continued loan growth.
Total noninterest income decreased $49 million to $503 million driven primarily by runoff in mortgage origination and protection products revenue.
Net discount and interchange revenue was down 2% driven by a higher rewards rate year-over-year.
Our rewards rate for the quarter was 107 basis points.
As reported the rate was up 5 basis points year-over-year due primarily to the elimination of the rewards forfeiture reserve in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Sequentially the rate increased 2 basis points driven by promotional programs.
As we've said before we do expect some continued pressure on the rewards front as it remains the locus of competitive intensity in the card space.
Our current view is that the fourth quarter rewards rate will be in the neighborhood of 115 basis points.
Protection products revenue declined $16 million year-over-year as new product sales remain suspended as they have been since the fourth quarter of 2012.
Other income was down $21 million largely driven by the decline in mortgage origination revenue as we exit the product.
Looking to the coming quarters we expect this combination of factors will continue to produce lower year-over-year non-interchange fee income.
However it's important to keep in mind that exiting Home Loan originations will be beneficial to the bottom line once shutdown costs are behind us as operating expenses exceeded revenues in this business for the last year.
Moving to payment services revenue decreased $9 million in the prior year due to the previously announced loss of volume from a large debit issuer.
This loss will continue to impact year-over-year comparisons through the first quarter of 2016.
Turning to slide six total loan yield of 11.37% was one basis point higher year-over-year.
In terms of the components credit card yield declined 1 basis point while student loan yields increased 6 basis points.
Personal loan yields moved the most decreasing 13 basis points from the prior year as a result of customers continuing to opt for shorter term loans which price further down the curve and the effects of some select pricing changes we instituted earlier in the year.
On the other side of the ledger funding costs increased 8 basis points on liabilities due to funding mix and higher rates.
The higher funding costs continued to be the primary driver behind the decrease in net interest margin from the prior year to 9.62%.
Sequentially net interest margin declined 1 basis point a bit better than we expected due to slightly less promotional balance activity and better credit.
Our current view is for NIM to end the year at roughly the same level as the third quarter.
Turning to slide seven operating expenses were up $55 million over the prior year driven primarily by one-time and ongoing compliance costs.
Employee compensation increased $17 million due primarily to higher head count to support regulatory and compliance activities.
Marketing expenses decreased $14 million due to the timing of spend within the year.
Professional fees increased $49 million due in part to approximately $28 million in look-back related anti-money laundering expenses as well as higher costs associated with technology and compliance investments.
For the quarter our total company efficiency ratio was about 40% slightly higher than our 38% target as it continued to be impacted by several extraordinary items we've discussed throughout 2015.
Even at this elevated level we remain among the most efficient large banks in the U.S.
However since we don't expect these extraordinary costs to recur in 2016 we provided an adjusted operating efficiency ratio to better reflect the efficiency of our core business.
This ratio excludes $28 million in anti-money laundering look-back expenses for the quarter and $23 million in expenses for the quarter associate with the wind down and exit of our Home Loans business.
Adjusting for these items the efficiency ratio was about 38% essentially in line with our long-term target although I'll point out that our efficiency ratio tends to be a bit lower in the first and third quarters.
We still believe reported operating expenses will be right about $3.6 billion for 2015.
Turning to slide eight provision for loan losses was lower by $22 million compared to the prior year due to a smaller reserve build.
This quarter we built reserves by $8 million.
We recorded a $30 million build in the same period last year.
This quarter's build was driven by card loan growth partially offset by a reserve release in student loans.
The credit card net charge-off rate decreased by 24 basis points from the prior quarter and by 12 basis points year-over-year to 2.04%.
The 30-plus delinquency rate of 1.65% increased 10 basis points sequentially and declined 6 basis points relative to the prior year.
The private student loan net charge-off rate excluding purchased loans decreased 20 basis points from the prior year as we continue to benefit from more efficient collection strategies as well as the introduction of several new payment plans over the last year.
Student loan delinquencies once again excluding purchased loans increased 10 basis points to 1.88%.
Switching to personal loans the net charge-off rate was up 7 basis points from the prior year and the 30-plus delinquency rate was up 5 basis points to 80 basis points.
The year-over-year increase in the personal loan charge-off rate was primarily driven by the seasoning of loan growth.
To close things out I'll touch on our capital position on slide nine.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio decreased sequentially by 10 basis points to 14.3% due to loan growth and capital deployment.
During the quarter we repurchased $435 million of common stock or nearly 2% of our outstanding shares.
We continue to believe that on a combined basis our buybacks and dividends are driving the highest total yield among CCAR participants.
In summary expenses have been and will continue to be elevated in 2015 as a result of some items we don't expect to recur next year.
However on a core basis we are operating roughly in line with our long-term efficiency ratio target.
Delivering strong credit performance has helped offset some of the higher expenses and the credit environment continues to feel relatively benign.
As we close out 2015 and plan for 2016 we'll continue to focus on driving long-term value for our shareholders as we grow our business.
That concludes our formal remarks.
So now I'll turn the call back to our operator Michelle to open the line up for Q&amp;A.
Our first question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I guess my first question is just on loan growth.
You guys talked about wanting to accelerate the growth rate but remaining disciplined in the competitive environment.
Could you talk about how that affects your growth outlook into next year and also the rewards rate? I've got one follow-up after that.
Sure Sanjay.
As you look across the products let me start with student loans and personal loans.
We're seeing very strong growth and are on track for record levels of originations.
On the card side growth is still within our range but we are seeing an impact from sales and a lot of it coming from gas sales but are continuing to invest and I'm excited to see the level of new accounts and how well Discover it and the new features and innovation we're bringing to market how well that's doing.
So I think that's a positive sign.
Keep in mind though that a lot of our balances with new accounts are built through sales as opposed to balance transfer so it takes a bit of time for those new accounts to translate into overall loan growth.
And Sanjay just in terms of your rewards rate what I would say is the expectation for the fourth quarter as we noted in our prepared remarks is 115 basis points.
As we look to 2016 I'm not prepared to give specific guidance yet.
What I will say is I think on a full-year basis it's likely to be higher than what you've seen in 2015 but we fully intend on remaining disciplined in terms of how we spend those dollars.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Great.
I guess my follow-up question is on the BSA/AML overhang.
At what point do you think you're not affected by them? And how do you think you can benefit from that outside of lower expenses? I'll cover the overhang and when I think it goes away and then I'll let Roger talk about the business benefits.
So what we have guided folks toward is that the expenses related to the look-back requirements of the AML/BSA situation would be about $75 million on the full year this year.
There's about $28 million roughly in the quarter this year.
Currently I think that the look-back expense is likely to come in more on the order of about $85 million in total.
We will cover that additional $10 million through other operating efficiencies so not changing our overall expense guidance.
I do believe we'll be completed with the look-back this year.
I feel comfortable with that.
What I would say is there will be ongoing compliance costs that will be in the model Sanjay going forward but we are essentially covering those costs with efficiencies elsewhere in the operating model.
And Roger I'll let you speak to the other element.
Yeah and Sanjay in terms of overall business benefits I wouldn't expect anything significant.
I think it's a nice complement in terms of the new models.
It's a complement to what we're already doing in terms of fraud prevention.
But I wouldn't expect to see a material improvement in the fraud rate from these new investments.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> And as far as deploying excess capital? So I think the deployment of excess capital Sanjay I assume what you're alluding to is inorganic opportunities to deploy that excess capital.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Right.
I think that will depend upon the lifting of the AML/BSA consent order or at least significant progress toward that end on our part.
It's hard for me to handicap that one for you because I feel good about the progress we're making.
But we have more ground to cover in terms of where we need to go and there's a regulator who will ultimately control – a series of regulators who will control when it's lifted so it's hard for me to handicap for you.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Bob Napoli with William Blair.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
On the marketing spend and the number of new accounts I mean you said there was timing on the marketing being a little lower so I would imagine you're looking for an uplift in the fourth quarter? But you also said you put on a record number of new accounts.
What is the quality level of those new accounts? And where are they coming from? How are you hitting a record level of new accounts with less marketing? So in terms of the record level of new accounts with less marketing sometimes there's a bit of a lag.
And so we did talk about the second quarter being our probably top tick in terms of marketing expense for the year and so that translates into bookings in the following quarter.
In terms of quality we are very pleased with the quality we're seeing.
We have not made any significant changes in terms of our credit criteria.
We're seeing very strong activation rate more retail sales with less of an emphasis on balance transfer and attractive costs per account.
So we're very excited about the quality of the new accounts we're booking.
So that by definition should lead to an acceleration in loan and spending growth were that to continue ...
So there are a lot of factors that go into overall loan and sales growth.
Certainly what happens in – with gas prices has shown us all what can impact.
And clearly overall retail sales the holiday season the other efforts we do stimulating our portfolio those all add up.
But I would say it's a positive indicator in terms of how well our product is competing in a very competitive marketplace.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you for taking my question.
I wanted to ask on credit the provision as a percentage of average loans appears to be in that sub-2% range well below the 2.5% that you guys guided to earlier in the year.
And I think at the time you guys gave that guidance you might have been closer to 2.3%.
And so given the kind of growth that we're seeing are you guys likely to stay – is it reasonable to expect that you stay in that kind of 2% level? Can you maybe just give a little bit of perspective around that looking ahead to 2016? Yep happy to do it Mr.
Carcache.
So year-to-date the provision rate as you noted is around 2% give or take.
And on last quarter's call we said it would be lower than our original 2.5% guidance for the year.
I think that's pretty much a given at this point in time.
We see continued benign credit markets out there generally.
So while I'm not prepared to speak to 2016 at this point in time in terms of exactly what our expectations are I think it's definitely a foregone conclusion that we will be well inside of that 2.5% at this point in time based on everything I see right now this year.
Credit continues to feel exceptionally benign and it's a good environment from that perspective.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
And then my follow-up is on the other income line.
Can you help us think through a little bit more specifically some of the moving parts there? Perhaps if possible breaking down for us how much runoff and mortgage origination revenues and payment protection contributed to the decline and the rate at which those will attrite going forward? Just trying to get a sense of what the other income line you know could look like in 2016.
Yeah so mortgage revenues were roughly $17 million lower give or take; something on that neck of the woods.
Protection product revenues were lower by roughly $6 million give or take.
That's the way to think about that line item.
Protection products revenue I think there's another – there's a product we're going to actually be sunsetting here in the next quarter or two so that should result in a little bit of acceleration in the decline of protection products revenue but not anything significant.
And ultimately I would expect mortgage revenue to be essentially gone here in the fourth quarter.
So protection products will continue to attrite somewhat.
I think we still believe at some point in time we may consider re-launching those products in a regulatory compliant fashion but it wouldn't be this year that's for sure.
Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of David Ho with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Just wanted to talk about the NIM outlook a little bit; given the potential that higher rates may be pushed out.
Does that change your funding costs strategy a bit? How are you positioned for asset sensitivity? And can you talk a little bit about where you see your credit card yields trending given elevated pay down levels but the mix still pretty attractive? So I'll tackle the NIM part of the question.
What I would say is as I said in our prepared remarks we expect it to be pretty flat fourth quarter from where we ended the third quarter.
And I think what we've said historically about 2016 is that we expected 2016 to remain at or above 9.5%.
I think given what we're seeing right now I would lean towards the above as opposed to at 9.5% for 2016.
In terms of funding strategy David when I look at how we're positioned vis-à-vis our primary competitors as well as the regional banks we're positioned about the 45th percentile or so of asset sensitivity.
That doesn't feel like a decidedly bad place to be.
It feels like we're right in the middle of the pack.
That feels very comfortable place for us.
We did stop several quarters back building any additional meaningful asset sensitivity into the book.
So I think what you're likely to see us do is to the extent it's cost effective to do so really more essentially maintain that positioning as opposed to anything else.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And just separately on capital were you surprised that a major competitor – not competitor but there was – another card issuer was not required to be a part of the CCAR process? And does that have an impact on your view of potentially capital deployment in the next CCAR process? Yeah I'm not going to speculate as to competitors and why they were or weren't included in certain things or not included in certain things.
I think we worry about what we're held accountable for doing it well and making sure we're driving great returns for our shareholders and that's where we're going to stay focused.
But I don't think we read anything into that that led us to believe there would be changes for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
Mark maybe just one quick question on expenses; I think the core came in better than some of us had expected and I know you tried to dissect the expense base a number of different ways.
When I go through the numbers I get about $200 million year-to-date of one-time expenses.
If I look at this quarter's core annualized it's well below or at or below $3.4 billion.
So I guess how do I think about what you consider to be a more normal growth rate in the expenses outside of all the noise that's going on under the hood with the AML/BSA costs and some other one-time items? It's a big question Ryan.
I'll do my best to address it concisely.
But it's probably going to take me just a second there.
So first of all in terms of annualizing this quarter's numbers for our run rate I would not suggest you do that because again this was not a particular high watermark from a marketing expense quarter and I would say we always have some lumpiness to the expense level.
So I would not suggest doing that as the right way to think about it.
So while we think $3.6 billion is still a good number for this year I think what we said is we expect it to be lower next year.
The best advice I would have is go back to where we were in 2014 anchor to those levels have some smart young analyst in your shop do a regression to take a look at what bank expense growth rates have been on an annualized basis over the course of the last two years grow 2014 at that rate and it will get you into the right ballpark for thinking about our expenses I think over the course of 2016.
We'll give you more specific direct guidance on our fourth quarter earnings call.
Got it.
And then maybe if I can ask one question to Roger when I think about the spend volume despite the fact that we have seen an impact from energy prices it seems like you actually saw an acceleration this quarter which surprised me given some of the macro disruptions that we saw.
And I guess maybe a comment on what you think is driving the acceleration that you're seeing in consumer spending.
Is it just easier? Is it just the comps getting easier or is there something else that you saw? I think the – consumer spending in general is reasonably soft.
As we get out go out talking to our merchant partners I'm not sure anyone is expecting a blowout holiday season.
For us if you look at overall sales clearly the biggest impact is coming from the gas prices.
We do a lot of work to stimulate our base and to grow sales and the new accounts again are contributing to sales at a higher rate than prior vintages.
But I would not sort of call a robust comeback for the U.S.
consumer at his point.
Got it.
I'm going to start on the regression.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
A lot of the questions that I was thinking about have been asked and answered but as you look at your ability to kind of grow accounts with low marketing spend expense but still have an increasing rewards I mean do you think of it as actually kind of transferring that expense from spending it on account acquisition to actually the rewards function? I mean is that a good way to think about it? Yes.
I would say that a big part of what is for us funding the double promotion is reduced promo rates in terms of durations for balance transfer as well as purchases as well as it's generating a lower cost per account.
And so we look at all those factors.
But another key component is having a differentiated offer in the marketplace.
And that's where for us at least having a proprietary network having distinctive features like the free FICO and Freeze all of that also adds up to giving us very attractive new account economics.
I guess my follow-up really is given that you do have a differentiated offer given that you do have the J.D.
Power designation your own brand and lots of other things I guess when should we expect you to actually develop and generate some of your own fee-based products so that you can recover some of the revenue that you've been losing for the last several years? That's something that we are looking at.
There's a lot of focus on building out compliance functionality and risk management across the entire spectrum of our businesses.
We will probably return at some point in the future but there are a lot of other priorities.
And I think we're getting a lot of value from some of the functions and features we're putting out there that don't cost anything.
So if you look at free FICO that's something that a lot of issuers and even third parties used to charge for.
We see a lot of value in giving that away for free and getting the benefit in terms of customers coming to Discover and carrying balances on their cards.
Yeah I don't disagree.
It just feels like given your positioning you'd be in a better shape to do it than some others.
Could be.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Hecht with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Actually most of my questions have been asked.
I guess I have one out of curiosity.
It's a little bit about your opinion of where you think we are in the credit cycle.
On one level you guys are running very low losses very low delinquencies.
You may be even more comfortable signing up new accounts.
On the other hand we've got more mixed economic data.
I think there's an emerging concern that we're at a tail end or at least the latter part of the credit cycle.
I'm just wondering what do you guys think about that.
And what do you do to balance those offsetting thoughts as you kind of enter next year? So you can rest assured that when we sign up new accounts we are not assuming that peak losses are in the 2% range.
So there's a big difference between the models we use in booking new accounts and where the overall portfolio is now.
What I would say though and Mark made it clear it is a remarkably benign environment.
And if you look at things such as our 30-day delinquency rate it looks pretty calm as far out as the eye can see.
Now there's a lot of work that goes into managing those losses both in terms of underwriting as well as the work supporting our customers when they get into challenging circumstances.
But again I think that the environment continues to look very very good as we look forward.
That doesn't mean we're being any less disciplined in how we're booking new accounts whether that's in card student loans or personal loans.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
I think this is a question for Roger.
You talked a bit about new accounts and better activation on those new accounts.
But what I was curious about is if you look at your more seasoned accounts isn't that where the opportunity lies for increased activation? And if you could talk about activation rates on those more seasoned accounts how they've trended year-over-year.
And then what your outlook might be as you try to maybe gain more activation from those accounts looking at the next 12 months.
Can you talk about that? Because that seems to be where there could be more of an opportunity unless I'm completely mistaken.
Well yeah I did not mean to suggest that with our focus on new accounts we're ignoring the existing portfolio.
Traditionally our loan growth comes almost 50-50 between new accounts and stimulating existing accounts.
Frequently it's not the inactive existing accounts it's the ones that have a low level of activity.
So we're the second card in the wallet and we want to become first card.
We do a lot of different promotions whether it's leveraging our network to do specific merchant offers the rotating 5% program encourages them to spend perhaps in categories where they haven't spent before even promotions like we're doing with Apple Pay encourages them to put Discover card top-of-wallet for mobile payments.
So there's a tremendous amount of activity stimulating the portfolio as well as booking new accounts.
So can you give us a sense for how much additional activity has been stimulated on those existing accounts with your marketing activity over say the last 12 months just so we have a sense for that? I would just say traditionally our loan growth has come about 50-50 between growth from new accounts.
Clearly we benefit from having a lower attrition rate and very low charge-off rate.
So in terms of driving growth from existing accounts there's less of a hole to make up.
But I think beyond that rough 50-50 mix we don't more precisely disclose where the growth comes from.
Okay.
And then just a quick one on the rewards rate.
Again you talked about that the expected increase in Q4.
Didn't give any sort of expectation for 2016 yet.
But I was curious about the interplay between rewards rate and yield because it looks like card yield has held up pretty well relative to the rewards rate going up.
So is it basically just the post-CARD Act function where the limitations on re-pricing that have maybe made it less feasible to maybe price lower on the rate relative to giving more rewards? Or is it just the rewards resonate more with borrowers compared to lower loan rates? I'm just curious about that.
Thanks.
I think that's right.
Post-CARD Act it's a lot more challenging to compete in terms of the go-to rate on cards because you've lost your ability to change that.
There's still competition around balance transfer promotional rates but in general you see less competition for those go-to rates.
I would say also benefiting the net interest margin is the low charge-off and so that's helping support a higher NIM.
But I think we are seeing a lot of competition in rewards these days.
It's a combination of to your point the CARD Act impacts as well as I would say some issuers that are pursuing a spend-based model where a lot of the focus is on very rich rewards.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark DeVries with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
I've got another follow-up for you on card loan growth.
Are there any other specific investments you're making or promotions you're going to be running in the fourth quarter looking forward on top of Roger which you already mentioned the extension of the promotional period the Apple Pay to help accelerate loan growth here? In terms of the ones that are driving the rewards rate it is largely coming from – we do have the seasonal 5% program the double cash promotion and then what we're running with Apple Pay.
Those are the biggest drivers.
We do have as always a lot of marketing activity planned everything from new account solicitations to continuing to stimulate the existing portfolio.
Inc.</span></strong> And as we look into the first quarter or the early part of next year when you normally would seasonally see a drop-off in your reward expense should we expect that to be a little bit more elevated as you look to continue to kind of reaccelerate loan growth? Yeah Mark what I would say there again as I'm not prepared to speak to 2016 in specifics.
But I would say on a full-year basis you're clearly going to be looking at a higher rewards rate I think than you'll see for a full-year basis in 2015.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
And just one last clarifying point.
Mark did you indicate earlier that for 2016 you would expect provisions inside of the 2.5% that you guided to for this year? No.
I was speaking to what we expected for 2015.
We'll give our 2016 guidance on the fourth quarter call.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
Yep.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Donat with Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just first wanted to circle back on some of the stuff you talked about recently Mark on EMV expenses.
Is this something that is going to be mostly done in 2015 or will it creep into 2016 and beyond? Can you just give us some color of how recurring EMV transition is in its nature? So I think the EMV expenses that we specifically called out earlier this year were really more what I would call the one-time oriented expenses associated with tokenization and pushing out EMV.
So I would not expect those expenses to recur.
I do think a little bit of that $35 billion total is likely to bleed into the early part of next year as opposed to fully being spent this year.
What I would say is I would just remind everybody that reissuance costs for EMV cards are higher than reissuance costs for a mag-stripe card.
So in a run rate reissuance world that probably has a little bit of impact but from the standpoint of the one-time costs I called out no I do not expect to see those increase beyond the levels we have called out.
Okay.
And then sort of similar question on Home Loans you had $23 million of expenses in the second quarter another $23 million this quarter for wind-down and exit.
Are we pretty close to the end on that one or is maybe a little bit more to come also? It's going to be a little bit more to bleed through in the fourth quarter.
So GAAP requires some of the charges you take – you actually can't take until you actually shutter the doors and turn off the lights.
So it will be smaller than this quarter's number.
But there will be a little bit bleeding through in the fourth quarter and then it will be over.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
You bet.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Howlett with UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just on the loan loss reserve it looks like the $10 million release on the student lending and the personal lending I'm not sure if those parts were the PCI but I guess getting back to your charge-off comments before the credit looks stable in both those asset classes but it doesn't appear that long-term that's the run rate that's sustainable you're growing those balances.
I guess if there's any indication will we need reserve building if that continues to grow at the rate they're growing at? So I guess what I would say is a lot of moving parts and pieces there.
Let me try and tackle them all.
On the student lending piece specifically the release was relatively small as you noted.
It was driven by better expectations for future losses on loans that are currently in deferment.
So that's what drove that piece of the puzzle.
In terms of looking forward it's just hard to say quite honestly how much – we've called now for two years in a row for growth in the portfolio to outstrip remaining goodness left in the portfolio and just to be intellectually honest with our good friends we've been wrong twice.
Credit has continued to improve over that period of time.
I think it just highlights what Roger alluded to earlier and that is that in our working lifetimes none of us have ever seen a credit environment that looks like this.
CARD Act got implemented at the same time the crisis ripped a lot of forward charge-offs into a current period.
So it's – I have used the analogy a few times now.
If you think about it like the GPS in your car in normal times it gets you to the street address.
Today it's getting you to kind of the ZIP code.
So I feel comfortable with the results we're getting but in terms of the precision you're looking for I'm not going to try and convince you that we've got it because I don't think anybody does right now.
Right.
Gotcha.
The credit looks extremely stable there's no signs of deterioration.
Just on the percentage they're going to grow faster it looks like than the cards for a while.
Is there any target? I mean long-term target that you sort of think that this is going to get to and that's sort of the critical mass is it 25% 30%? Could it keep on just growing making a bigger percentage to the balance sheet longer term out? I do think just given the relatively – the different sizes of our asset classes you'll continue to see faster growth in personal loan and student loan.
But luckily we are in the capital position where we can support growth across any of those.
And so where we can find good growth that meets our profitability and credit hurdles we're investing across all of our asset classes.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Bruce with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
My first question relates to basically what your anticipation would be in terms of loan growth from a timing perspective.
You know you point out that the sales volume is ultimately going to lead to balance growth.
You've had a good pickup in cards you had a good pickup in spending ex-gas.
How long do you think it takes for that to ultimately percolate into balance growth? It's hard to pin down precisely because there are a lot of other factors.
I would point out we are still seeing healthy balance growth in our card business as well as very strong loan growth across the personal and student loan side.
Where holiday sales go will be a factor as well.
I would point to the new accounts as well as the easier year-over-year comps on gas as two helpful factors.
Beyond that I wouldn't want to put out a number in terms of where growth is going to go any time soon.
Okay.
Just maybe two follow-up questions or one follow-up and one new question.
Is there a natural horizon that you would expect balances to grow after a new card acquisition? That would be the first question.
And then separately this is a bit of a sensitive topic I know but just in terms of the value that you all ascribe to the payments business in the closed loop that you operate obviously there's been a lot of focus on unlocking value in transactions that ultimately would possibly value that business higher outside of Discover.
And you pointed to – Mark you discussed it in terms of optionality at a recent investor conference and I'm wondering what factors you would need to see in order to start to exercise some of that optionality? Thank you.
Yeah so let me start with maybe the second question.
I think when you think about our payments business it's important to keep in mind it's not just the payments segment but rather the network that our proprietary card runs on.
And I talked about the benefits we get in terms of differentiation in terms of the ability to work directly with merchants.
Quite frankly you're seeing one of the largest card issuers out there head the other way in terms of trying to build their own proprietary networks.
So I think if you look for example at the returns that we and American Express generate both in different ways but generate within the card issuing business I don't think it's a coincidence that the two of us are generating the highest returns but also have a proprietary network.
Now we believe our partnership strategy and working with partners such as SAP and Ariba such as PayPal such as all the global networks around the world we think that one is the right one to maximize shareholder value and are committed to pursuing that.
But again I think it's not as simple as just looking at the payment segment.
You've got to keep in mind the value that we see for the card issuing side of the business.
And I guess – well maybe to retort that a little bit it's not as obvious that there's any value ascribed in the stock for that and I wonder how you would see or think about trying to I guess maximize shareholder returns versus just the value to you of the network itself? So Ken what I would say is that the management team not just on this topic but across the board I mean I think we've proven ourselves to care greatly about driving great returns for our shareholders putting 20% north ROEs looks pretty darn good.
I think at the end of the day you shouldn't take us as believing that we don't ever question our own approaches.
We question them regularly and we look at options regularly.
So I think you should take Roger's comments as that we've spent a lot of time looking and that we believe very strongly we're pursuing the right strategy based upon what we see right now.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Rick Shane with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
They've actually all been asked and answered.
Hi Rick.
Thanks Rick.
And our next question comes from the line of Cheryl Pate with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
I just wanted to circle back to the loan growth that we've talked about several times here.
I'm just – I realize there's a lot of different moving pieces here but I was wondering maybe there's some perspective you could share in terms of maybe what you've seen historically as to the timing and trajectory from marketing spend to new account growth to loan growth? Is – maybe you can just help us size the – have you seen that been more of a couple-of-quarter event? Is it more of a year lag? Just if you can help size that a little bit from historical experience? Sure.
And that was actually a part of – I got distracted with the second half of Ken's question.
Usually for new accounts in the prime segment the balances will build over the first two years.
What can really change that is how focused you are on balance transfer because if you're building it for retail sales they'll continue to build.
If you're using a lot of balance transfer they'll build very very quickly and then pay down when the balance transfer expires.
And depending on the issuer that can be 12 months 18 months.
I think there's some people who will even go out 24 months.
Given our focus on rewards on all the other value components on service and what I talked about in terms of backing off the promotion durations I think these new accounts we do expect balances to continue building for the first two years.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just as a follow up in terms of the new card account growth this quarter maybe you can help us think about how has the – still relatively new – but how has the travel card been resonating within that and driving account growth? So the Miles Card is doing well.
It's exceeding our expectations but it's still a pretty small part of our overall new accounts.
It's really – our core product is Cashback and the Discover it Cashback.
For those people who prefer miles we have the Discover it Miles but it's a much smaller component of our overall new account origination.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just to follow-up on two small topics one Mark I actually did that regression and I came up with sort of a growth CAGR of 7% which is somewhat higher than what I would have guessed before I did the math.
And I'm wondering if that – or speculating rather that a lot of it includes that many of your peer group also had elevated compliance costs.
But does a high-single-digit figure seem like a reasonable number or perhaps maybe too high end? I think that's too high end.
The number I'm using looks more like a mid-single-digit number probably a slightly lower mid-single-digit number is the way I'd think about it.
Okay.
Thank you for that.
And just to follow-up on the cost of funds how should we think about the cost of funds going forward? Should it – will it appear similar to this quarter in terms of some of the incremental costs seeping through? And how are the pricing dynamics offsetting that on sort of a forward basis to sustain this very solid margin? So in terms of the overall cost of funds I think Mark had talked on previous calls about how we've positioned the balance sheet.
You know clearly the rate increases seem to be pushing out more and more so we do expect some good stability in terms of NIM as we look forward.
Yeah I guess what I would say is you know we said at or above 3.5% (sic) [9.5%] through 2016.
What I would echo today is that I would be much more comfortable with above 3.5% (sic) [9.5%] in 2016 than I was when we said at or above 3.5% (sic) [9.5%].
You mean 9.5% 9.5%.
Sorry.
Great.
Thanks very much.
My apologies.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
I was just wondering if you could update us on your views around mobile payments.
I mean Apple Pay gets most of everyone's attention these days but technology moves pretty fast.
So just curious if you could give us some big-picture views there please.
Sure.
We are working with Apple Pay as well as other mobile wallets out there.
I think it's a space that continues to evolve.
We see some attractive benefits in terms of what we can do by being a card issuer as well as having our own network.
So a lot of flexibility in terms of how we put it together.
There are some investments and I think it will take a while to see who the winners and losers are.
But I think as part of our partnership strategy when the market is evolving this quickly you want to put quite a few chips down.
You know but I would say clearly Apple Pay is off to an early lead.
And we're seeing very strong results in terms of take-up on our offer.
Okay.
Terrific.
Thanks.
And then we haven't talked about this in a while but I was just curious if any news any updates you could provide on the checking product.
Sure.
So we are continuing to market the checking product but only to our existing base.
We're not offering it to the broad market.
So it's really just cross-sold to our card base.
I think we're in a complete AML/BSA build-out and some other components before we take it to the broad market.
It's a product that we're very excited about but realistically it will take a while before it has a material impact on our overall funding costs.
And I would also focus beyond checking though we are working aggressively in terms of our savings account our money market our CDs so there's a big part of our direct-to-consumer deposit business beyond checking.
Excellent.
Thanks so much for the color.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Don Fandetti with Citi.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
Mark some of the data that we track for card mailings has gotten a little more volatile lately.
And I was just curious over the last 12 months or so how your digital mix has shifted in your card business.
And also could you talk a little bit about the mix in how you approach your personal lending from a mailings versus digital perspective? Sure.
It's Roger.
I'll cover this one.
Digital continues to grow but direct mail remains very important for the card business.
And there's a difference between what you send out and how people respond.
So actually we get more applications from mobile devices than we do mailed back through the mail.
But again I would say digital continues to grow.
For personal loans by and large up until this point our marketing has been by invitation only.
So whether it's cross-sold to our existing customers or going out to the broad market we target specific profiles from the bureau data.
So given that our mix has been very heavily weighted towards direct mail or other cross-sell channels internally.
About two quarters ago we started opening that up but it's still in transition.
So I think you would expect to see the non-direct mail solicitations grow on the personal loan side.
It's actually that broad market response that is helping drive record levels of origination.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Brendler with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Just one more on the card loan growth side.
Thanks for all the color earlier.
Attrition like it seems to me like the pressure on the card business at this point is a lot of competition in the reward space.
Can you talk about attrition rates? And have they increased or stabilized recently that would give you a little more confidence that we're close to a bottom? Thanks.
So for us attrition rates have been very stable and amongst the best in the industry.
And that's where I think you see the benefits of what won us J.D.
Power in terms of hundred percent for our employees' customer service a great customer experience across every aspect.
So if you look at our customers and how they recommend Discover to a friend their satisfaction very very high.
So we have seen very stable and very low attrition rates.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
One more quick follow-up.
Any change directionally in the competitive pressures from the alternative lenders the online lenders in the either the card business or the student personal loan businesses? We don't see the alternative lenders as much on the card side.
On the personal loan side they are aggressive competitors.
They put a lot of mail out in the marketplace.
In general they target a much broader credit spectrum than we do.
And operate a lot outside of the prime space.
But given our brand given our value proposition I think that's even in this competitive environment we are seeing record levels of origination.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
Thanks Roger.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from the line of Jason Harbes with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Your line is open.
Yeah hi.
Good evening.
Most of my questions have already been answered.
But maybe just to follow-up on the NIM outlook you know the stable NIM expectation I guess my question is to what extent is that a function of potentially rising interest rates over the next 12 months or so? So I would say it's a reflection of where we see the forward curve right now more so than anything else.
If we actually do get some movement in the rate environment we are positively levered to that based on our current asset liability positioning and would actually see margin expansion through the first several hundred basis points of rate increases.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then just to follow-up on a comment you made I think last quarter around the tax rate is that still going to be a little bit lower here in the fourth quarter? Yeah I think I would describe it probably as in line maybe slightly lower but generally in line with the third quarter is the way I think about it.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
You bet.
Thank you.
We have no further questions.
And I'd like to turn the call back over to Bill Franklin for any final remarks.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
If you have any other follow-up questions feel free to call the Investor Relations team.
Have a good night.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great evening.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Discover Financial Services Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would like to introduce your host for today's conference Bill Franklin Head of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Thank you Sabrina.
Good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate all of you for joining us.
Let me begin as always with slide two of our earnings presentation which is on the investor relations section of Discover.com.
Our discussion today contains certain forward-looking statements about the company's future financial performance and business prospects which are subject to risks and uncertainties and speak only as of today.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today's earnings press release which was provided to the SEC in an 8K report and in our 10-K and 10-Qs which are on our website and on file with the SEC.
In the fourth quarter 2015 earnings material we have provided information that compares and reconciles the company's non-GAAP financial measures with the GAAP financial information and we explain why these presentations are useful to management and investors.
We urge you to review that information in conjunction with today's discussion.
Our call today will include formal remarks from David Nelms our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Graf our Chief Financial Officer.
After Mark completes his comments there will be time for a question-and-answer session.
During the Q&amp;A period it would be very helpful if you limit yourself to one question so we can make sure that everyone is accommodated.
So now it is my pleasure to turn the call over to David.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I'm going to review our fourth quarter and full year results and discuss our key focus areas for 2016.
Then I will hand it over to Mark to review the fourth quarter in more detail and share some forward-looking guidance.
Starting on slide three of our earnings presentation we've reported fourth quarter net income of $500 million and diluted earnings per share of $1.14 up 31% due to some one-time charges in the prior year.
We were able to drive a return on equity of 18% for the quarter despite higher loan loss provisions and higher non-recurring expenses driven by the anti-money laundering look back.
Turning to slide four Discover achieved total loan growth of 3.5% over the prior year.
Card receivables grew 3% this quarter lower than we would like however this was partly due to lower promotional balance growth compared to the prior period.
Total sales for the quarter increased 3% from the prior year or roughly 5% excluding gas sales.
Lower gas prices have continued to impact our sales and card loan growth more than we had anticipated however we believe it also somewhat helped credit results in 2015.
Moving to our next largest asset class private student loans grew 3%.
However excluding our acquired portfolios we achieved 16% growth year-over-year.
Personal loans increased to $5.5 billion up 10% from the prior year.
On the right-hand side of slide four we lay out payments volume growth.
Proprietary volume continued to increase in support of the card issuing business however our third party payment segment had lower volume compared to the prior year.
A large part of the volume in this segment comes from PULSE where we saw continued declines in the challenging post-Durbin environment.
Performance was good in the other network businesses although they represent a much smaller portion of the total payments volume.
Network Partners volume increased significantly driven by AribaPay volumes while Diners volume decreased slightly as reported but was up nicely on a constant dollar basis.
Now I'm going to touch on our full year financial results shown on slide five.
In 2015 our earnings crossed the $5 per share mark for the first time.
Revenue increased 3% from the prior year to $8.7 billion.
Moving down this slide provisioning grew roughly in line with the average loan growth.
Expense growth was primarily driven by higher regulatory and compliance costs particularly related to our AML consent order remediation.
Due to the strength of our capital generation and buyback program EPS increased 5% for the full year versus 2014.
Moving to slide six we accomplished a great deal in 2015 to move the business forward.
We continued to grow our balance sheet with total loans up 3.5% from the prior year.
We introduced new features and benefits throughout the year to attract and retain customers.
In card we introduced the innovative Freeze It capability which allows customers to suspend their credit card with a few clicks from their app in the event it's misplaced.
I can personally attest to how well it works.
And we offered a promotional 10% cash back bonus on in-store purchases using the Apple Pay which drove adoption in our card base and also attracted some new card members to Discover.
At the same time we continued to be disciplined in managing credit as our total net charge-off rate excluding PCI loans declined 5 basis points.
Our card loss rate remains among the lowest in the industry.
We also achieved record originations in our non-card loans.
We increased brand awareness for student loans through radio advertising and The Freshman Experience a unique partnership with NBC News.
In December we launched FAFSA Assistant a free tool to help families navigate government student aid filings and educate prospective students about their funding options which should continue to increase Discover student loan awareness in 2016.
In personal loans we launched several new digital initiatives to help drive growth.
In payments the competitive landscape in debit remains challenging.
In 2015 we established new partnerships including network-to-network agreements new Diners Club licensees and at the same time we grew volume with existing payment partnerships like AribaPay.
Perhaps most importantly the Discover Network continues to provide significant benefits to our card issuing business as evidenced by the fact that we are accepted at more than 37 million locations worldwide roughly 20% more than a year ago.
As we look back on 2015 we feel good about our accomplishments.
We generated a 21% return on equity for the full year and repurchased 6% of our stock.
Now let's move to slide seven.
For 2016 our vision is unchanged.
We aspire to be the leading U.S.
direct bank and payments partner.
Our key focus areas for the year will help us move forward towards accomplishing our vision.
In 2016 we are targeting faster loan growth which you will see in the guidance that Mark goes through later in the call.
We expect this growth to be balanced between new accounts and our existing portfolio.
Discover it continues to perform well in the marketplace helped by the double cash back bonus offer for new card members during the first year.
While we anticipate the majority of our new account growth will come from our flagship Discover it card we expect to see additional growth from our Miles it card and the recently launched secured card.
To support the growth of the Miles it card we introduced last year we've recently aired our first television advertisement to increase awareness of the product and features.
In addition we announced the broad market launch of the Discover it secured card on Monday.
This product will give customers who are new to credit access to the features and the benefits of a Discover it product fully secured by a cash deposit.
This is another opportunity for us to reach new customers and retain them as they develop a strong credit history.
In the existing portfolio we have a number of initiatives some of which are already underway to support loan growth including a strategy to re-engage inactives when they receive their EMV card appropriate credit line increases for eligible customers and profitable balance transfers.
Underlying all these initiatives is our commitment to a disciplined approach to credit management which has served Discover well through previous credit cycles.
In addition we will continue to build out our digital capabilities with enhanced customer features.
By the end of the month we will have completed the full rollout of our unique Pay with Cashback functionality online and in our app.
This will offer customers the ability to pay their monthly card bill using their cashback bonus seamlessly.
We continue to innovate in the features and benefits that drive customer satisfaction and long-term loyalty.
Moving down the slide in 2016 we will be very focused on operating expense leverage.
Historically we've had one of the best efficiency ratios in the industry.
While our 2015 ratio was elevated due to some one-time items we are managing the business to trend back towards our long-term target.
In 2016 we expect to invest in growth and to see increases in ongoing compliance costs while also finding ways to optimize the core expense base.
We have a unique set of payment assets which present many long-term opportunities for us.
Near term we are focused on getting the most from our proprietary network for our card issuing business including increased acceptance and brand differentiation.
While Payment Services has struggled with some third-party volume losses we expect volume to stabilize prior to the end of the year and we continue to seek opportunities to bring more volume from third parties on to our network.
We are looking broadly across this segment; domestically internationally in business to business and in consumer payments.
We have the ability to scale significantly and are committed to driving value.
In 2016 we will be particularly focused on closing out our AML look-back and continuing to enhance our compliance-related functions.
Investing in compliance and risk management will enable us to meet increasing regulatory requirements while also strengthening our operations and supporting our leadership position in customer service.
And lastly we will optimize our capital deployment so we can consistently deliver strong returns to our shareholders while driving quality organic growth.
We have big goals for 2016 and are hard at work to achieve them.
We're especially working to accelerate profitable loan growth.
Now I will turn the call to Mark to discuss the details of our fourth quarter results and forward-looking guidance.
Mark? Thanks David and good evening everyone.
I'll start with the revenue detail on slide eight of our presentation.
Net interest income increased $60 million or 4% over the prior year due to loan growth.
Total non-interest income was up $108 million.
I would remind you that the prior year period included a one-time charge of $178 million related to the elimination of the rewards forfeiture reserve.
Excluding this one-time item in the prior year non-interest income declined $70 million.
The rewards rate was 118 basis points up 8 basis points from the prior year on an adjusted basis largely due to the double rewards program for new card members as well as our fourth quarter Apple Pay promotion.
Protection products revenue continues to decline down $15 million year-over-year given our suspension of sales in late 2012.
Other revenue decreased $30 million primarily due to the loss of mortgage origination revenue as we closed our direct mortgage operation this year.
Payment Services revenue was down $14 million primarily due to lower transaction processing revenue at PULSE.
This was largely the result of the previously disclosed loss of volume from a large debit issuer.
Turning to slide nine.
Total loan yield of 11.49% was up 9 basis points over the prior year.
This higher yield was offset by higher funding costs and a larger liquidity portfolio.
Combined these drove net interest margin on receivables down 1 basis point from the prior year to 9.75%.
However on a sequential basis NIM expanded by 13 basis points driven by higher card yield due to portfolio mix.
Personal loans were the only asset class where the yield declined from the prior year.
Shorter terms year-over-year and a $5 million one-time adjustment to deferred loan origination cost drove the decline.
As the origination cost adjustment was nonrecurring we would expect that in the first quarter of 2016 personal loan yields will rebound to levels roughly in line with the third quarter of 2015.
Turning to slide 10 total operating expense was roughly flat in part because both periods included some one-time items.
In the fourth quarter of 2014 we recognized $48 million in charges in other expenses associated with two items.
First a $27 million impairment of goodwill related to the mortgage origination business which we subsequently exited.
And second a $21 million mark to fair value related to Diners Club Italy being classified as held for sale which we've now sold.
In the current period we incurred $37 million in expense resulting from the anti-money laundering look-back project.
Adjusting for these items expenses were $12 million or 1% higher year-over-year.
Turning to provision for loan losses in credit on slide 11 provision for loan losses was higher by $27 million due primarily to a higher reserve build compared to the prior year.
As David mentioned earlier provision growth on a full year basis was essentially in line with average loan growth.
The credit card net charge-off rate was 2.18% down 8 basis points year-over-year and up 14 basis points sequentially.
The 30-plus day delinquency rate was relatively flat year-over-year at 1.72% and up 7 basis points from the prior quarter.
The private student loan net charge-off rate excluding purchase credit impaired loans decreased 10 basis points year-over-year to 1.3%.
The 30-plus day delinquency rate increased by 11 basis points over the prior year to 1.9% as the organic book continues to enter repayment.
Switching to personal loans the net charge-off rate was up 8 basis points year-over-year to 2.3% due to the seasoning of newer vintages in line with expectations and the over 30 day delinquency rate was up 10 basis points to 89 basis points.
Across all of our portfolios we remain pleased with our strong credit results.
Next I'll touch on our capital position on slide 12.
Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 13.9%.
The sequential decrease in our capital ratios was driven by a combination of seasonal loan growth and capital deployment.
On that latter point we repurchased $435 million of stock in the quarter.
In total during 2015 we returned over $2 billion in capital to shareholders with a 94% payout ratio.
To complete the repurchases we submitted as part of last year's CCAR capital actions we plan to buy back over $800 million of shares in the first half of 2016.
Moving to long-term guidance on slide 13.
The majority of these items have not changed since our last investor day.
So I'll focus only on the two that have changed and are circled on the page.
I would remind you that the items on this page represent expected averages through the cycle and do not necessarily reflect our expectations for 2016.
Going forward we'll be guiding to total loan growth as opposed to the component pieces.
We expect long-term total loan growth of 4% to 6%.
Consistent with this change we've also updated the long-term guidance to reflect the total net charge-off rate excluding PCI loans which we expect to be 3% to 4%.
Turning to slide 14 let's spend a minute on guidance that is specific to 2016.
First we expect total loan growth to be in the range of 4% to 6% in line with our long-term target.
Keep in mind that card represents roughly 80% of our portfolio.
So achieving 4% to 6% total loan growth requires us to accelerate card growth from the recent trend.
On that last point I want to remind you of a nuance in how we report our monthly loan data.
We don't process payments for the card business on Saturdays.
So when a month ends on a Saturday our 8K reported receivables include Saturday's sales but no payments from that day.
This can create distortions in year-over-year comparisons.
A good rule of thumb is to expect a positive bump of 50 basis points to 60 basis points to the year-over-year growth when the current month ends on a Saturday and to expect a drag of 50 basis points to 60 basis points when the prior year month ends on a Saturday.
Obviously this is just a timing impact but we are calling it out because both January and February ended on a Saturday last year.
As a result our relative year-over-year growth will be understated in our reporting for each of those months this year.
Moving to our outlook for net interest margin in 2016 we expect it to be what I would call relatively stable when compared to our full year 2015 NIM of 9.68% perhaps with a bit of an upward bias.
Further increases in rates would benefit us based on the modest asset sensitivity we built into the balance sheet.
But we may also see some offsets depending upon the level of card promotional activity and runoff in higher rate and default-priced balances.
With respect to rewards we're planning to spend more on a full-year basis in 2016.
Specifically we expect the full year rate around 115 basis points or roughly 7 basis points higher than 2015.
A good portion of the increase is the first year double rewards program which has delivered a lower cost per account and brought on more engaged customers; well worth the investment.
Moving to non-interest non-interchange revenue as we've said throughout 2015 we expect this line item to be lower this year.
The primary drivers are the exit of the direct mortgage origination product which generated roughly $74 million in revenue in 2015; continued runoff in protection products revenue which we estimate to be about $40 million lower in 2016; and lower Payment Services revenue in part reflecting the sale of the Diners Club Italy franchise.
Taking all of this into account we expect non-interest non-interchange revenue to decline approximately $125 million in 2016.
Moving to the total net charge-off rate ex-PCI loans we expect it to be slightly higher than 2015.
The credit environment continues to feel benign with our reserve build in the fourth quarter reflective of the seasoning of several years of card loan growth at levels above the portfolio charge-off rate in line with our expectations.
In addition we assume a more modest outlook for improvement in the U.S.
economy in 2016.
Finally we expect operating expense to be slightly above $3.5 billion next year.
This reflects the roll off of the AML/BSA look back expenses over the course of 2016 incremental expenses for ongoing regulatory and compliance costs that are facing all participants in the industry initiatives to accelerate loan growth as well as operating efficiency improvements.
Based on this level of expense we expect to drive positive operating leverage and decrease our efficiency ratio which is already one of the lowest among large banks.
To close things out we have a business model that is generating strong returns on equity.
While third party payment volume has declined recently we expect our Payment Services segment volume to stabilize prior to the end of the year.
This should position us for growth in future years which is why we are keeping our long-term payments volume growth target at 10%.
Near term we are very focused on the remediation of our AML/BSA consent order and reducing expenses in 2016.
We'll be focused on accelerating total loan growth in a disciplined fashion focusing on opportunities that are profitable for the long term and not sacrificing credit for the sake of growth.
Last but not least we have a strong capital position that enables us to both invest in the business to drive growth and deliver prudently aggressive payouts to shareholders within the constraints the CCAR process.
That concludes our formal remarks.
So now I'll turn the call back to our operator Sabrina to begin the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Don Fandetti of Citigroup.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes David or Mark I just wanted to confirm the reserve build this quarter was just sort of a seasonality and you're not seeing anything at least today that would suggest any weakening in the overall portfolio.
I was wondering if you can comment on that.
And I know in the past you've provided a provision to average loan ratio.
Would you care to provide that for 2016? Yeah on the fourth quarter number Don I would say the card reserve rate was 2.68% this quarter I believe.
And over the last five quarters to six quarters it's been pretty consistently in that 2.6% to 2.7% range.
So I would say you know it's consistent.
The provision really on a full-year basis is consistent with the loan growth on a full-year basis which is kind of I think what we've been saying people should be expecting.
So no we don't see any change at all in the dynamics of the portfolio.
Our guidance for next year reflects what I called I think a slight increase in charge-offs.
We still expect that to remain clearly in the low 2%s range.
I think we learned our lesson last year trying to give provision guidance and we're shying away from that this year and just sticking with charge-offs.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
And then on the rewards obviously going up for good reasons but I was just curious would your sense be that that's likely to sort of – if you are wrong maybe you're going to tick a little higher or are you being pretty conservative? It seems like competition is going to remain pretty healthy into 2016.
Well I think we've given guidance based on what we expect.
Certainly that can always be a little higher or a little lower than guidance depending on – because there's a lot of promotional decisions that we make along the way and so it could vary from that but what I would say is that it's less about competition and more about us doing tests and controls and deciding what to spend in rewards versus the marketing line and what has the best net present values for new accounts and stimulating the portfolio and that means that has led to higher spend over time in this line.
I would say the big driver Don is the double rewards program on new accounts and that's driving a very low CPA cost per account acquired right now.
And the customers who are coming on with the new accounts are driving very engaged type behaviors that we expect to materialize in loan growth as we move forward throughout 2016.
So I think it's a pretty potent investment right now is the bottom line based on what we see; but I would echo David's comment it's something that we look at from time to time and could change.
As always if we update our outlook and our guidance you'll know about it.
Next caller.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani of KBW.
Your line is now open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
I guess 2015 was a year of lot of surprises on the expense line.
As we look towards 2016 how much execution risk is there in terms of surprises not popping up on expenses? I mean do you guys feel like you know you have enough levers available to you so that if there are surprises you could still meet your expectations? And secondly just to Mark could you define slight in terms of the increase for charge-offs? Thank you.
So on the first point Sanjay what I would say is look we clearly have expense levers.
You make decisions from time to time on whether or not you want to pull those levers right? We knew that the look back project for the AML/BSA was going to be big dollars.
We knew it was one-time nonrecurring and cutting muscle that drives the business forward didn't make a lot of sense right in that regard.
That being said we covered an awful lot of ongoing expense increases in regulatory and compliance world with operating efficiency gains this year.
I think you should look to see us do the same next year.
Candidly I think we kind of landed right on top more or less of our OpEx guidance for the full year for this past year came in I think $15 million over something like that but on a $3.6 billion line item kind of feel like we did a decent job.
That notwithstanding I think at the end of the day there clearly are levers we can pull when it makes sense to pull them.
With respect to what is a slight increase in charge-offs? I kind of reiterate what I said to Don maybe expand on it a little bit.
It's going to stay clearly in the low 2% range Sanjay.
We do not see any signs of a turn in the credit environment.
We are operating with many years of growth seasoning in the portfolio right now and as we've said new account season at loss rates higher than legacy portfolio.
So there's a bit of an impact there but the credit environment itself continues to feel very benign and we're not trying to signal some giant inflection point in charge-offs.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
You bet.
And our next question comes from the line of David Ho of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I had a question regarding your through the cycle guidance in terms of the loan growth versus the charge-off rates.
Given that's through the cycle and then obviously baking in consumer conservatism I guess the question is would it be possible that loan growth would be above kind of your 4% to 6% range at that level of charge-off rate assuming the economy is not deteriorating in any major fashion just on the part of consumer being less conservative.
Is that the right way to think about that? Well I think that on loan growth we have established a new long-term target of 4% to 6% of total loans and we said that we were actually committed to being in that range next year which implies some acceleration.
Given that we're below that range today I would not be looking for us to exceed it.
I think we're going to work really hard to get into the range this coming year and we think 4% to 6% would be gaining market share in prime credit cards and across our other businesses.
So we think it would be a very good outcome without taking excessive credit risk.
Charge-offs you noticed that we have a long-term target and it's very disconnected with where we are and what Mark said is slight increase.
So clearly we expect to be significantly below that long-term range during this coming year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And what would get you to the 3% to 4% or what factors would drive that? Is it mostly macro or are you assuming any kind of decrease in conservatism on the part of the consumer? I would say macro factors.
And I think that we feel like we've been in an unusually benign time period from a credit perspective.
On the flip side it's been a very lack of loan growth time for the industry coming off of a shrinking period but on charge-offs it's been unusually benign and so we're expecting over a longer period of time for things to normalize.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just if I may one more question on the seasoning of recent growth.
At what point does some of the more recent or prior vintage years start to tail off in terms of moving down the peak of the loss curve and hopefully providing some tailwind to reserving from here? So cards are the biggest driver.
They tend to peak at about 24 months after origination.
So if you think about it you have three years of vintages under the peak of the seasoning curve if you will.
A year ago is 12 months in; two years ago is at the peak; and three years ago is coming down the peak pretty much equivalent to where a year ago was more or less.
The issue is if we are successful in increasing our loan growth you will pick that up right? Because if you have successively larger vintages the maturation of those vintages will drive provision.
It's growth math and candidly I think it's a good problem to have.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Brendler of Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi thanks.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just wanted to focus again on the card business and the competitive environment.
You mentioned that it's not only having an impact on your rewards rate but we have seen an increase in the level of rewards and cashback in particular your competition.
So maybe you could just dimensionalize is that getting any better into your outlook.
And then sort of a related follow-up.
I'm surprised to see marketing investment down this quarter.
I know that it was sort of lumpy quarter to quarter.
But do you plan to increase marketing investment in 2016? Is some of the testing you're doing giving you some of the confidence that you're going to hit your loan growth target? Thanks.
Well to handle the first one I mean competition is up both overall and in rewards and I think that's particularly true in the rewards segment.
But what I said before about as we have increased our rewards it hasn't been just because we are seeing rewards of competitors.
It's because we've tested into programs that we think will produce better results.
And certainly one of the reasons that we didn't grow marketing as much in the fourth quarter is because we chose to invest more on the rewards side particularly promotional rewards for the new accounts as Mark mentioned versus cost per new account.
We also have been achieving some nice savings in cost per account.
So the money has gone a little bit further.
And Mark I will let you answer the second.
Yeah and as we look forward I think the answer is we view marketing and rewards as interconnected investment.
So you may see some geography flips year-on-year between those two depending upon how we're looking to drive new account acquisition as well as utilization going forward.
But I would not expect marketing expense to be flat on a year-over-year basis.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then one quick follow-up if I could.
I think I know the answer to this but I imagine your dipping into the secured card the subprime space is not a part of your increased growth expectations in balances in 2016 at this point? No.
I would say the Miles card – of those two new products the Miles card would probably have the greater impact.
You see us advertising that on TV.
Secured card I view as a good feeder for the future.
And I think as those customers in subsequent years as we hope a number of them will exhibit good behavior we'll be able to eventually drop the requirement of the security get to more normal credit lines.
And so I think 2017 2018 is when you'd start to see some of the maturing of those secured cards in the prime portfolio and that's our real objective.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Moshe Orenbuch of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Yeah I guess first just a quick comment.
I mean I think that I would have liked to hear given that this is a somewhat noticeable earnings disappointment a little more urgency as to the pulling of the levers and kind of executing on the plan.
I mean given that you have some of your competitors see stable or improving loan growth even in this industry environment.
So that's just kind of an observation.
But I guess my question kind of really does relate to when you think about the growth really in net interest income because that's really the driver of your revenue stream are you expecting to see – what is it about the new accounts? Because in other words if you're getting record numbers of new accounts are they not building the balances? And how should we think about the development of that to be confident in a forecast of 4% 5% or 6% kind of into 2016? Well first I think it's important to keep in mind the reasons growth decelerated which a number of people that were focused particularly in the prime segment didn't see growth saw less than we did.
But one driver was the slower U.S.
retail sales growth in addition to the impact of falling gas prices we talked about that.
We also mentioned some of the actions we took to optimize the profitability of some promotional programs so that cost us some growth.
But looking forward we do have significant urgency in accelerating growth.
That's why we've committed to that 4% to 6% total growth range for next year.
And that should come both from the new account side as well as the existing portfolio and there's a whole range of activities that we have focused on getting more new accounts activating them more leveraging balance transfer the Miles card gaining wallet share on the portfolio side as we continue to roll out features like Freeze it.
So we have a lot of range of actions because frankly the economy and the prime market isn't very robust.
So what we have to do is continue to gain market share as we've done for several years by differentiating our products.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason Arnold of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Hi good afternoon guys.
David I was just wondering if you can talk in a bit more detail about the potential opportunity to add third-party issuers and maybe hitting on the appeal and what you see as an opportunity is perhaps as well as the challenges of getting new partners.
Sure.
Well if you look at our Payment segment obviously PULSE has been a challenge with (37:32) and some specific volume losses but the other parts of payments we have actually seen some nice gains and particularly from Ariba which has been an important new partner.
We continue to be working closely with PayPal and I still remain optimistic that in the long term that is going to produce some volume.
We continue to make some good progress with new partners around the world.
We signed the three largest banks in Brazil and with a network there network-to-network partners.
We have seen very nice growth out of our partners in China and in India on Diners Club.
So we are casting a very wide net to grow our third-party payments volume and that's why we have still stuck to our 10% long-term growth target even though we have been shrinking now and so we're focused on turning that volume growth around to something positive.
Great.
Thank you for the color.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Cheryl Pate of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Hi good afternoon.
I just wanted to follow-up on sort of the loan growth in the card space and sort of understand the point on rewards cost relative to marketing spend.
I guess one more thing to add into the mix there is how should we think about the balance on profitable loan balance transfers which maybe drive growth faster than rewards might take some more time to build up.
Can you help us think through the dynamics there? And then secondly just wondering if you could comment on card acquisition trends this quarter.
Thanks.
Okay.
I think I won't comment on card acquisitions this quarter.
We'll wait until the next call to answer that but on the first two questions loan growth from the new accounts we've been driving – our double cashback bonus has been driving lower cost per account and a very attractive mix of cardholders.
And those customers have been – we're seeing more spend and maybe a little less balance transfer.
And what that means is those new accounts we've put on – those in the last two quarters are going to continue to build their balances into next year.
And so that's one of the things we're continuing to focus on is efforts that ultimately result in balance growth and we're really pleased with the newer accounts but it's not as instant as the balance transfer.
Now balance transfer I think is still an opportunity.
We pulled back a bit on balance transfer because we found some areas that we thought were not profitable didn't meet our hurdles but we are now pursuing some opportunities that we think will be more productive and more profitable.
So I think we can probably do a little more balance transfer as well this year than we did last year.
Yeah and Cheryl on the tradeoff between marketing spend and rewards spend they are in one regard one and the same right? So you are trying to build awareness build utilization you can do that by staying front of mind in the television and elsewhere.
You can also do it by providing a rewards product that on an everyday basis engages that customer in ways that incents them to utilize the card as well.
So they are both – kind of have a common purpose of driving utilization spend and ultimate loan growth on the card.
The one thing I would follow on to David's earlier remarks with is loan growth from new accounts from prime new accounts emerges down the road a little bit right? So you originate the account.
The account comes on the books.
You begin to see the spend behavior come on to the card but unless you're balance transferring a big balance over right it takes time for that utilization to build those balances up.
So we continue to feel good about the ultimate impact of the new accounts we're putting on.
We believe we'll begin to see through 2016 that manifest itself in loan growth but there is a tad of a lag there.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Arren Cyganovich of D.A.
Davidson.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
I was wondering if you could touch a little bit on personal loans and student loans.
We've talked a lot about credit card growth where are your thoughts on those two categories going forward? Sure.
As we mentioned we were really pleased that we had record originations in both student loans and personal loans last year.
We expect to do even more in both of those areas this coming year.
One of the reasons that we moved to a total loans estimate is because those two businesses have become a bigger part of our total and certainly the fact that we expect faster growth from those two businesses than card helps drive our overall loans up.
And I guess the final thing I would say is that we're quite focused on some of the digital capabilities enhancing our target marketing we are doing more broad market in personal loans and I mentioned a couple of the new endorsements or marketing features we have with NBC and others in student loans which I think are helping to increase the awareness that Discover isn't just credit cards; it's also student loans.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Rick Shane of JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thanks guys for taking my question.
We've heard you talk about something a little bit today that we haven't heard in a while which is gaining wallet share through line limit increases.
Can you just talk about that opportunity the pluses and the minuses there and what makes you at this point more comfortable using that as a growth tool again? Well I actually think we've been much more consistent than certain other competitors who I think went from not doing any to doing a bunch and saw a runoff and then saw big increases.
We've actually been pretty steady.
So I would say that we'll continue to appropriately increase lines but I wouldn't call that out as any dramatic change for us.
Okay.
Great.
I mean it strikes me given that your borrowers have proven to be very responsible over time it's a pretty convenient – or it's a pretty easy way to move up in wallet.
Well it is if you're careful in how you do it.
And so we are giving lines where we can.
We are finding some opportunities.
Certainly the further we come into stable credit lines and the more stability many consumers have the better their FICO scores are the more history they have it gives us greater confidence in being able to extend somewhat bigger lines.
So I think both initial lines for new accounts as well as line increases done to the right segments can be very profitable and can be done without driving up charge-offs.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Pancari of Evercore.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon.
Hi.
I just want to ask questions around your expectation on the BSA/AML cost for 2016 how we should think about that.
It looks like it came in just shy of $100 million for 2015.
Is that a fair level that we should assume for 2016? I would say no.
I would not assume that as a level for 2016.
The number we've been calling out for BSA/AML compliance we specifically identified as a project right? This is a look back on transactions over a period of time historically.
And it's got a finite end date and a finite process it runs.
So that definitely bleeds off as we go into 2016 and the cost of that is included in the expense guidance that we gave earlier.
So we are considering the lingering effects of that as we look at the remainder of this year.
What I would say is there are obviously ongoing costs associated with the BSA/AML program enhancements.
Those we have largely been covering with either run rate operating efficiencies that we have found to-date and we'll look to find ways to offset those expenses as we move forward but they are fractions very small fractions of the total number we're talking about around the project.
Okay.
And then just to reconfirm that expectation for the BSA/AML cost that is included in your 2016 expense projection of $3.5 billion correct? It is included in it yes.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom of Guggenheim Securities.
Your line is now open.
Thanks very much.
Mark I just wanted to quickly clarify or rather maybe make sure I've understood your expectations around allowance.
It sounds like what you expect to pursue is that the allowance will grow roughly in line with projected loan growth.
Is that correct? Well so the allowance will respond to what we actually see as trends in the portfolio.
Based on what we see now though we continue to believe provision increases will be largely driven by and in line with loan portfolio growth.
Got it.
And so from that perspective just mathematically it would continue to be in the range of 2.6% to 2.7% of card loans? It would depend on the size of the new vintage right? If you had a meteoric increase in the size of a vintage that could impact it but generally speaking I think that's a reasonable proxy for looking at the stability of the credit environment.
Thanks very much.
You bet.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Mark DeVries of Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
Just another follow-up on that point because I think obviously I have some confusion on your comments Mark because when you say reserving at kind of 2.6% 2.7% level and they have been kind of consistently there for the last four quarters you are referring to the reserves per loans as opposed to the provisions per loans because provisions per loans really have bounced around a lot.
And they were 2.7% this quarter but if we look at a world where you are guiding to charge-offs in the low 2%s and we are now at 2.7% on a reserve to loan ratio would that imply that at least with absent really strong loan growth that the provision to loan should be lower in the coming quarters than they were this quarter? So what we're specifically calling out with that number is the reserve rate for cards that we disclosed in our financial supplement.
So it's just bounced around.
I'm looking back December of 2014 it was 2.63%; 2.79% in March of 2015; 2.62% in June; 2.62% in September; 2.68% now.
So it's pretty consistently in that 2.6% 2.7% range.
I would tell you based on the seasoning of the growth we've put on the books over the course of the last couple years as well as the challenge that David has put in front of the team to accelerate loan growth as we go into this year as well I would not expect the provisions to decrease.
By the same token I would very clearly state so that I'm not misunderstood don't expect some giant increase in that card reserve rates right now based on what we currently see in our models.
That obviously changes but if you think about it Mark the next six months are pretty well known right? So we're reserving for 12 months out.
The next six months we can pretty well see in the role buckets.
It's really that period of 6 months to 12 months out where you've got a little bit of uncertainty where your models get impacted to a degree by the macro variables and your assessment of the health and the strength of the economy and what that's going to do to a borrower.
So there's always a little bit of uncertainty in this.
It is a forecast so by definition it's wrong.
You try and be as right as you can.
We're thumping along the bottom of the credit cycle.
We have been for a while.
So there will be a little bit of volatility here.
But what I always just try to remind everybody is this is a $1.8 billion balance sheet item.
So a little bit of volatility drives some moves in EPS.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Chris Donat of Sandler O'Neill.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon.
Thanks for taking my question.
David I just wanted to ask on the secured credit card and your launch of that you're typically very methodical about new products and I imagine this has been in development for some time.
Can you give us some color on what sort of development process you went through and what you might have considered adding or not adding with the card or just trying to understand when you guys launch something I know you put a lot of investment into it so what you're getting for it.
Well and this has been in test for a while.
So we have experience with some accounts and we got to the point where we had enough experience that we felt that we could make it an official launch.
And I would say we're certainly seeing in the marketplace right now people that are in the – lesser credits are seeing significant growth and the prime market is really not growing hardly at all.
And so we're not willing to sacrifice our credit to go into subprime but what this product allows us to do is to get people that might currently be considered subprime to get our product and for us to be protected from losses because we have the security deposit and to work with those customers to graduate them into prime loans when they're ready.
And so it is our way of new to credit or blemished credit in a way that protects our losses.
And so I guess the final thing I'd say is we did a lot of market research looking at competitive products and we don't see anything in the marketplace that is like this.
Most other cards are stripped down cards.
They don't have rewards.
They don't have benefits.
They service the cards offshore.
This is a real Discover it card with everything that comes with it.
And the only thing unique is it's fully secured and so when the credit improves they continue that product but it becomes unsecured.
Okay.
And then just related to that you said you're seeing more opportunity with the subprime side and certainly we see from other card issuers some pretty dramatic growth in loan balances in the subprime category.
But are you seeing changes in consumer behavior? Like I hear anecdotes of millennials not embracing credit cards the same way that say baby boomers did.
Is that any part of the thesis here or is that just in the background? Well it's probably a component because new to credit is part of it and we are seeing a few more people that aren't establishing credit early on.
And so they may need to start out with a secured card just because they just didn't get any credit didn't get a credit history.
So this helps address that need.
A lot of what's happening though is the big bounce back in my opinion in the subprime market because I think that declined far more a few years ago than the prime did even.
And there were very few competitors in it and now the very few people who are in subprime still including the private labels that tend to have high yields and lower credits are seeing a big bounce back.
But it's a smaller segment than the prime segment.
I think the more important thing for us is to gain share in prime but what we want to do is identify the people that can become prime over time and get them started before they're all the way there to prime.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Hecht of Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I guess I'll ask one about margin.
You're guiding for a flat margin.
Is that just I guess you're not anticipating many rate hikes this year or is there something else going on with the trajectory of rates yields and cost to fund that we should think about? So we are working off of an operative assumption of one or two rate increases this year as opposed to the four we were looking at in the forward curve toward the very end of last year.
I would say we have not yet seen the benefit really of repricing in the card book fully from the Fed rate increase because we don't reprice card customers until cycle date.
So you will get some lift from that coming in.
So I think what we're trying to say in NIM is there's an upward bias in NIM.
We're well positioned right now.
We may choose to invest some of that increase in NIM in marketing dollars some promotional dollars and other places to really drive the growth that I think is the key thing we understand the market wants to see from us.
So we may take some of that excess and reinvest it.
Absent doing that you would have more NIM expansion than you're likely to actually see.
Okay.
And separate and distinct question.
You did speak to the typical trajectory of your prime accounts and the utilization rates but just looking at your Master Trust data you've had elevated payment rates for some time.
And I'm wondering if you can speak to kind of just generic changes you see in customer utilization or payment behaviors or is there something that's changed you think that's going to take a while to shift or that's I guess worthy of discussion? Well I would just say that the mix between balance transfer and sales can impact payment rates along with credit.
And so certainly credit is great and so that tends to relate to a bit higher payments rates than one would otherwise have.
But as we have shifted to a little more transaction volume turning into loans versus a little less balance transfer on new accounts that is going to impact the payment rates.
And so people will tend to pay more of their sales down than they will of their balance transfer down.
And so based on the I guess current marketing strategy the elevated payment stream do you think that stays around for a while or would we see that shift? I don't think that we're forecasting a big change in that relationship.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon and thank you for taking my question.
Mark when you look at some of the one-time expense items outside of the AML/BSA spending this year and last and some of the changes – you've closed down the mortgage company and then of course you sold off Italy.
Can you give us a sense of sort of what the net impact of those two developments were? I mean I know revenue goes down from those two but so does some cost.
Yes I think Henry some of the one-time expenses or some of the revenue reductions you see in the fee line actually are accretive to the P&amp;L right? So for example we called out $74 million in lost revenue next year from the mortgage business.
I'd remind everybody when we exited the mortgage business we said the reason we were doing it or one of the reasons we were doing it is it was not P&amp;L accretive right.
So I think that's a very good point there.
If I think about the expense base generally right now I think we are very lean.
We are very efficient today as evidenced by that efficiency ratio.
We are always looking to find further efficiencies to get operating synergies and drive even greater returns on that.
As I said earlier we do have some levers we can pull if we get there but I think those are the kind of levers you pull when you are in a turn in the credit cycle and you see things.
Right now we're still trying to drive growth right.
And I don't think you drive growth by kind of coming in and trying to whack the heck out of expenses especially when you are already as efficient on that as we are.
So we're trying to balance prudent investments in growth maybe investing some of this additional NIM to drive that going forward.
In the Payment Services business on the international front Diners card has gone through a lot of change including the sale of Italy.
What is the outlook there? And thank you for answering my questions.
Sure.
Well I feel like we have really stabilized and positioned Diners to be able to grow from this point forward.
And apart from FX rates we saw some healthy growth some of the best growth we've seen since we owned it.
I think that Citi has largely exited the franchisees that they were going to exit.
We've gotten franchisees into new hands some very strong bank partners in China India and Japan and we've dramatically increased acceptance across the world.
So Diners is a pretty small total volume but the trajectory I think looks much better now.
And certainly selling Italy I think positions us much better from a P&amp;L perspective.
And the final thing I would add since Italy came up in the last question as well I think we exited Italy.
We took the hard decisions on the mortgage business to really position ourselves for the future.
And so I feel like we had some one-times last year.
I think they were relatively small the total $3.5 billion spend compared to some other companies but we prefer to have even fewer and I think we've positioned ourselves knock on wood to have fewer going forward especially as we get through this look-back.
So I gave you two answers for the price of one question.
Thank you very much sir.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason Harbes of Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Hey guys.
Good evening.
Thanks for taking the question.
Hi.
Just drilling down on the expenses were there any other one-timers aside from the BSA look-back? The other expense line looked a little bit elevated and I was kind of expecting a little bit of a decline potentially from the liability shift from EMV.
No I like that there was a little bit of elevated fraud cost in the fourth quarter...
And a little EMV cost.
And a little bit of EMV cost.
So I think as you continue to push the cards out there's costs associated with that.
On the flip side of the equation I think the fraud was actually up a little bit as you have the fraudsters trying to getting that one last hit before while swiping is still very prevalent.
So I think there's a combination of both sides of the same coin that you're seeing show up in that line item.
Okay.
Remember on EMV the rollout for the industry is still in-process.
There's a lot of retailers that haven't put it in activated it yet.
Okay.
And as a follow-up can you guys give us an update on how the Cashback Checking is progressing.
Sure.
We continue to purely offer that through cross-sell.
We achieved the targets that we set internally for the product last year just with the cross-sell and it is my hope that by year-end we will finally be able to make it available more broadly but we continue to enhance the operations the functionality the controls around AML/BSA and fraud and we have continued to learn a lot.
And I think that one of the reasons we've taken longer to launch this one than others is because it is a very important and more complicated product than typical products out there.
So we want to wait to go abroad until we are all buttoned down.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our final question comes from the line of Bob Napoli of William Blair.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
The personal loan business the reserve was up quite a bit in personal loans and a little bit of increase in charge-offs and delinquencies.
And the growth rate also continued to slow.
Is it the competitive environment in personal loans? Are you incrementally concerned about credit in that business? And with the competitive environment with the lending (1:05:52) do you expect that to at some point over the next year or so that there's going to be something that's going to derail some of those rapidly growing Internet competitors? I'll tackle the reserving question and David can tackle the strategic element of the question.
I would say Bob what's driving it really is seasoning of the portfolio right.
I mean I think you've seen double-digit growth rates there over the course of a number of years.
Personal loans don't season radically differently than credit card loans do.
There's a little bit of a change in the shape of the curve and it's not exactly the same but they tend to season after origination.
You don't get a lot of first payment defaults when you do it prudently thankfully.
So I would say it's just seasoning.
Don't expect any major deterioration of any kind in that portfolio and the seasoning we are seeing is in line with expectations.
And what I would say on the strategic side is we had record originations this year in that business even with literally hundreds of marketplace competitors entering and vying for share.
And I think that part of the reason is that the people that we're targeting tend to be very different than the credits that most of those are targeting.
Our average FICO score is 750 760.
The figures I've seen from the leading companies in the marketplace space is sub-700 average.
And when every 20 points of FICO means a doubling of credit losses that is a very big difference in target market.
And so we think that we're still the leader in prime originations in the space.
In terms of whether there will be a shake out I'm sure there will be a shake out.
I'm sure some people will survive but I don't think that there will be hundreds of competitors.
And it is an unproven model through the cycle.
And I believe that our model of originating and holding versus just an originate and sale that relies solely on growth and if you stop originating you don't have revenue I believe that a relationship owning the credits being able to finance it on our balance sheet and not having to rely on securitization markets that we have seen can completely dry up in a crisis I think is a more sustainable model.
And so I really like our position in that business.
Great.
And then my follow-up question just in the spirit of trying to accelerate growth just any thoughts on the trends in the student loan business? And then how the Ariba partnership is going and if that can be a material driver how long does it take? Or could that business ever be a material driver of revenue growth and earnings growth? Well answering your third question I guess first we think that Ariba is going to continue to produce a lot of volume growth in the short term.
It will be a while before it becomes a material contributor profitability-wise.
We also think there may be some ancillary services that may provide some revenues that having that product we're working on adding some additional functionality that may produce some revenue potential.
On student loans I'm not sure I fully understood your question on the student loans.
Just on the growth rate outlook for that business do you expect to see steady trends or is there anything you're working on to accelerate growth in the student loan business or...? Yes I think...
Or are there any things that are concerning that would slow it down from a regulatory standpoint or otherwise? No I expect to originate more this year than we did last year.
But I don't expect a dramatic acceleration but I do think that the credit trends look great the needs continue from customers and I expect us to originate a bit more.
And Bob it is helpful to look at the organic book versus the acquired book because the acquired we bought a number of years ago is essentially in run-off.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
Thank you.
We have no further questions at this time.
At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Franklin for final remarks.
Thanks.
We'd like to thank everyone for joining us.
If you have any other follow-up questions feel free to call Investor Relations.
Have a good night.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great evening.