Good day everyone and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Technology First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager of DuPont Fabros.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's First Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued last night which is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be limited to 2 per caller.
If you have additional questions please feel free to return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our first quarter 2011 earnings call.
As noted in last night's press release we again delivered solid financial results which Mark will discuss later in the call.
Our focus always has been to grow our business in a prudent and fruitful manner to increase not only our revenues and data center portfolios but also shareholder value.
Since going public in 2007 we have increased our leased critical load from 75 megawatts to 141 megawatts an increase of 88%.
Over the same period we have increased our revenues 135%.
These achievements would not have been possible without our highly diligent and committed employees at DFT.
I thank each of you for your contribution.
Leasing has and continues to be the primary focus and catalyst for growth.
So let me begin with an update.
As of today we have signed 6 leases totaling 16 megawatts of critical load in 2011.
This compares to 23 megawatts in all of 2010 or 70% of last year's total.
This is a great start to the year.
Five leases are with existing tenants and one lease is with a new tenant.
One of our existing tenants in Phase I of Chicago who has preleased space in Phase II requested that they be able to relinquish 2 small pods totaling 0.9 megawatts.
We agreed to take back this space since we have no available inventory.
This enabled us to sign a 3.9-megawatt prelease in Phase II of Chicago with the same tenant.
This tenant simply prefers the larger rooms at CH1.
We were happy to accommodate them.
New Jersey remains 22% leased.
We see good demand.
Leasing as always will be lumpy.
Tours and traffic remain solid.
We are touring approximately 3 tenants a week in New Jersey.
Pricing remains solid and in the range we expected.
We continue to expect to be 50% leased at the end of this year and 100% leased by the end of 2012.
We continue to expect GAAP  unleveraged 12% return at 100% lease-up.
Entering in new markets and pursuing a new tenant base require time to lease up.
Decision-making for financial and enterprise companies typically takes longer than those of technology companies.
From what we have experienced in New Jersey we do not expect a single tenant to take down large amounts of space.
We have cast our nets wide to land many fish instead of a few large ones.
These buildings have been designed so that rooms can be broken out into smaller increments.
We're able to accommodate wholesale tenants as small as 250 kilowatts with dedicated PDUs.
Each small tenant would still be able to enjoy the reliability and redundancy this facility offers just as much as the larger tenants would.
As these small tenants' requirements grow we believe that they will take additional space with us.
Subsequent to the end of the first quarter we signed one prelease with a tenant in Santa Clara.
This prelease was for 2.28 megawatts or 13% of Phase I.
This tenant is a Fortune 50 technology company with excellent credit.
To have a leading-edge company make this decision to choose DFT to provide for a portion of their data center needs reinforces the excellence of the building designs and operating teams.
We continue to have very good traffic in Santa Clara.
As a reminder we expect to be 22% leased in Santa Clara at the end of this year.
We have reconfirmed an 18-month lease-up from opening and remain confident with these lease assumptions.
We have seen many companies are realizing the value of outsourcing their data center requirements to DFT.
We provide them with the reliability and dependability of an experienced operating team who intends to be in the business for a very long time.
A cost-effective solution to their data center needs calculated on a per kilowatt basis our tenants are able to optimize their cost savings from: the bulk energy pricing we're able to achieve the large-scale cooling infrastructure our facilities offer and the shared operating expenses spread across a very large building platform.
And lastly with just-in-time inventory it is very difficult for most companies to capacity plan what their requirements will be in 3 to 5 years.
It takes a long time and money to build a data center.
If projections are unrealized the excess capacity would be unutilized.
As our tenants' demands grow they are able to take additional space when needed.
We pay close attention to the developments in the data center design.
Although there is a market for a modular product we firmly believe this is not a replacement for the wholesale data center.
At the same redundancy the construction costs are similar.
From a quality standpoint our facilities are superior and provide a significantly longer useful life.
The per-kilowatt operating cost of the larger data centers are lower.
Our development team continues to make improvements in the construction process which will result in a shortened development timeline.
Our 3 current developments are on budget and on schedule.
Both Phase Is of ACC6 and Santa Clara are scheduled to be delivered in the third quarter of 2011.
Chicago Phase II is scheduled to be delivered in the first quarter of 2012.
We are actively preleasing all 3.
With our current developments in progress our 2011 guidance assumes we do not start any additional developments in 2011.
Our primary focus is to lease and prelease our current inventory.
Our top 3 tenants represent 58% of our annualized base rent as of March 31.
Our top 2 tenants represent 40%.
The remaining lease term for our top 2 tenants is 7.2 years.
The average lease term for our entire portfolio is 6.8 years.
We expect our fourth quarter 2011 lease expirations to be extended.
The tenants have an option to terminate the lease but it should be renewed in conjunction with government approving the funding for our customer.
Now I will turn the call over to Mark who will take you through our financial results.
Thank you Hossein.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I want to cover 3 main topics today: our first quarter results a capital markets update and a 2011 guidance update.
For the first quarter of 2011 the company's FFO was $0.38 per share compared to $0.30 per share in the first quarter of 2010 an increase of 27%.
This was due primarily to increased operating revenue from lease commencements.
Quarterly revenues were $68.5 million an increase of $11.6 million or 20% over the first quarter of 2010.
AFFO was $0.25 per share for the first quarter compared to $0.18 per share quarter-over-quarter an increase of 39%.
Sequentially as compared to Q4 revenues increased 4% from $66 million to $68.5 million.
Three leases commenced during the quarter.
FFO per share increased from $0.33 to $0.38 or 15%.
As to a quick capital markets update all of which has been previously discussed we amended our $100 million line of credit by eliminating the 1% LIBOR floor.
Currently we have not borrowed against this line.
In March we sold 4.1 million shares of perpetual preferred stock raising approximately $97.5 million.
Cash on hand stands at $190 million today and the $100 million revolving line of credit is fully available to us.
We are fully funded to complete our 3 current developments.
As noted in our recent proxy and at last night's press release we agreed to purchase an undeveloped parcel of land for $9.6 million.
The land will be acquired from an entity controlled by Lammot and Hossein our Chairman and CEO.
The purchase price was based on the average of 2 independent appraisals and managed by the audit committee of our Board of Directors.
The location of this parcel which consists of approximately 23 acres is adjacent to our ACC data center campus in Ashburn.
This allows us to build a 36.4-megawatt facility identical to ACC5.
Our FFO guidance range for the second quarter of 2011 is $0.39 to $0.42 per share.
Full year FFO guidance range guidance remains unchanged at $1.50 to $1.70 per share.
Speculative revenue for 2011 is approximately $5 million or $0.06 from new leases forecasted to be signed and commenced subsequent to this call in 2011.
This is primarily weighted to the fourth quarter of this year.
As a reminder our 2011 guidance has lease commencements in New Jersey at 50% ACC6 at 30% and Santa Clara at 22% by year end.
G&amp;A for Q1 may appear high sequentially but we expect it to drop and be in the high side of our guidance range of $16 million to $18 million.
Interest capitalized totaled $6.3 million in Q1.
We expect between $8 million and $9 million in each of Q2 and Q3 and the remainder to fall in Q4.
Straight-line rent was $11.9 million in Q1.
We expect it to drop to $11 million in Q2 and approximately $8.5 million each for Q3 and Q4 hitting the $40 million midpoint guidance range.
Increased cash rents for the leases signed over the last 2 quarters drive this down on a sequential basis.
We expect AFFO to increase faster than FFO on a percentage basis year-over-year.
We tightened the range of our Santa Clara development by $20 million ACC6 by $10 million and provided a Chicago Phase II midpoint range of $195 million or approximately $10.7 million per megawatt.
This detail is on Page 11 of our press release.
We continue to expect a 12% return on cost in Santa Clara and Chicago and a 15% return on cost in Ashburn when 100% of leases have commenced at each location.
As to our cash/CapEx/development spend this year plan on $100 million in Q2 $100 million in Q3 with a total spend of approximately $375 million for the year.
We believe our solid financial condition and balance sheet flexibility puts us in a great position to continue to grow the company.
We continue to improve on every financial metric in our required covenants sequentially quarter-after-quarter.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
Our top priorities at this point are: to continue to lease up New Jersey; to prelease Santa Clara ACC6 and Chicago Phase II; to complete the development and open Santa Clara and ACC6 in the third quarter of this year; to complete the development and open Phase II of Chicago in the first quarter of 2012; and to maximize property operations by taking care of our current tenants and provide organic growth for new leases.
With that we'll be happy to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Michael Bilerman of Citi.
And I've got Mark Montandon and Quentin Velleley on the phone with me as well.
Hossein can you just talk a little bit about the land purchase? I know when we did this at that time of the IPO it was left out and obviously you didn't feel like you were going to get the value for the land at the IPO pricing.
But I'm just curious as you think about you couldn't sell that land into any other data center developer DuPont Fabros was the only person.
How did the appraisals or even a discount to appraisal take that into consideration? And then in terms of the compensation that you got for it how did you -- how did the board get comfortable paying cash versus paying in stock? Yes I'll be happy to address those.
Well first of all I think it's an untrue comment.
At the time of the IPO we could've very easily sold the land to the REIT and I think we would've gotten a very good pricing on it.
And money 4 years ago would certainly be more valuable than money today.
So I think the premise that we couldn't have done it is not true We could've.
I think in a sense what I have to do and make the decision and the board has to agree is to have a deal that is fair and equitable to the investors on the private side because Lammot and I are not the only investors on that side.
I think in the aggregate -- we're small I think we're about 40%.
And personally we're about 40% of the seller and on the other side we have the REIT.
So we wanted a deal that would be fair on both sides.
And when we took that into account the appraiser took into account the fact that what data center lands have sold in the area.
And I also disagree with you.
There could've possibly been scenarios where we could have sold the land to a possible user of data centers.
And we could've also possibly sold the land to a retail player that is not a direct competition of DFT.
But in a sense I think our private side of our business has helped the public company so that the private company in my world have essentially a free option at a fair price on all the land that we control.
So I think of it as a benefit.
And in terms of taking stock versus cash? I think the seller certainly wanted cash.
We could've taken stock but the seller certainly wanted cash for some obligations.
So whether we have sold the deal to anybody it would have been for cash.
No I'm saying from the REIT buying the land from you why wouldn't you take back stock in the REIT versus -- your other partners could've taken cash but you and Lammot as large shareholders to align the interests that the REIT -- obviously you're a large shareholder already but to align net interest of taking back currency rather than taking back cash.
Mike this is Mark Wetzel.
I think that the theory was from the audit committee running the process it was independent it was fair.
The idea of how the currency was paid there was other partners involved and it was just cleaner to make a clean deal with cash.
Just a question on New Jersey and then we'll hop back in the queue.
I know last quarter we had asked about going smaller.
And I think you said that was certainly a possibility but you didn't believe you had to go down that road.
And now it appears that you are going down that road.
And I guess how do you think you're -- given that you have a very large facility how do you think you're going to be able to compete in smaller sizes relative to other competitors in the area? And how do you think that's going to parlay into Santa Clara as well about your leasing strategy as you enter these new markets? It would appear that New Jersey certainly has been different than what you thought when you originally started developing it a number of years ago.
I disagree with 2 things that you said.
The first of which is yes we always thought New Jersey would be taking smaller increment data centers.
That has not changed from the start.
Also if you remember from the very start we've always said New Jersey will take 2 years from opening to lease.
So the lease-up of New Jersey is very much in line with our expectations.
We always thought this would be the case.
And in fact the way we've designed the building and we've spent significant money to design it so it does have the flexibility that we can have larger tenants or smaller tenants.
So the physical space of the building and the corridors that the decision was made to build those corridors 3 years ago when we originally designed the building always took into account that so we can accommodate smaller tenants.
From a tenancy standpoint having multiple tenants would be a better deal than having single tenants.
What I did say is that I have been surprised in markets like in Virginia that there were always such large tenants available.
But we've designed all our data centers from the start to take multiple tenants.
The buildings can accommodate more than 40 different tenants in one building.
It just so happens in Virginia that we have say 12 tenants in a 36-megawatt building.
But the reverse is true.
New Jersey is panning out exactly as we thought.
And Virginia has exceeded our expectations in leasing and on tenant sizes.
Our next question comes from Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc.
I wanted to just touch base on Santa Clara.
It looks like you've got some success there which is nice this being a new market for you on the preleasing front to be able to sign a tenant.
I'm curious is this an existing tenant within your portfolio either in Chicago or northern Virginia maybe more obviously? No it's a new tenant that we're very proud to have.
Okay.
So I know you said Fortune 50.
So it's not Google Microsoft or Yahoo! just another...
We can't comment on who the tenant is but it's a new tenant.
Okay that's helpful.
But being a Fortune 50 tenant the size of the lease I mean it's obviously probably significant in terms of overall scale for an average tenant.
But that doesn't seem like a huge lease.
Is there upside to this deal or expansion options maybe? We're not going to comment on that on any options tenants may or may not have.
But it's been our general modus operandi that each one of our tenants has multiple -- in the end they expand multiple times and I'm cautiously optimistic that this will be the case.
And can you just give us some feeling for the terms or the duration of the lease? And maybe are rents consistent with original underwriting or what have you? Yes Jordan this is Mark.
The rents are consistent with our underwriting.
And I think -- I thought we might have disclosed this.
It's a 7-year lease.
And then the new land the timing of the close on that? It should be sometime in Q2 or Q3 but definitely this year.
Okay.
And does it need to be a sort of worked through with the entitlement process at this point or is it more...
We have all the entitlements of the land in place.
Okay.
And then you touched on some of the existing rolling leases.
I know you only have 3 leases rolling through 2012.
I think you'd touched on the one later this year that you expect to renew.
What would be the expectations in terms of rents on that renewal? And would you need to commit additional capital the leasing costs et cetera? No that Q4 '11 lease expiration is really a termination option that we basically disclosed that  it could be terminated.
But the rent will stay the same and increase on 3% bumps.
Okay.
So that's not the one lease that was scheduled to expire for...
No I mean it's scheduled to expire in the termination option because the tenant has work with somebody in the government space.
We disclosed it as an expiration but it's really a termination right.
The lease will go on.
I got you.
And then so can you maybe update us on the 2012 roll any sort of discussions or expectations? Obviously we're again cautiously optimistic but we have nothing new to report there.
Our next question comes from Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> I had a question I just wanted to follow up a little bit on New Jersey.
It sounds like the traffic trends there are good.
But I guess going downstream in terms of tenant size and still having good traffic I'm a little bit surprised that you would still expect to see kind of lumpy leasing progress.
I would think that that would make the leasing progress a little bit more ratable towards -- as you go out towards the end of 2012.
Can you just kind of talk about the dynamics of not getting a couple of 250 or 500 kW tenants in there thus far and sort of the outlook as you go through the remainder of the year just given that you're going down in terms of size? Well I think the issue -- I think we always had a 250-kilowatt things in mind.
Leasing will always be lumpy.
And I think I've said that on every single earnings call we've had.
And if you straight-line it in the perfect Excel world right now we should be at I guess I don't know 23% or 25% and we're at 22% which is the same thing.
So we're in line where we expect to be on leasing.
And we have very good traffic.
We feel very good prospects in our pipeline.
And as I mentioned we have about 3 tours a week.
We feel that we have the best product in the market at a very competitive price.
So I think a lot of questions will be asked on New Jersey just like 2 years ago we had many questions asked on Chicago.
And we came around and we leased up that site in 21 months when we said it would take 24 months.
So we expect it to continue to grow with our expectations.
And I think Brendan decision-making is just a little longer as Hossein said in his prepared remarks.
It does take time it doesn't always match up with our earnings calls but we remain comfortable that we are on the right path.
We have the right team up there they're hustling.
We acknowledge there's competition but we think we have a better product.
LLC</strong> And is there -- I know your returns and the pro formas that you're looking at have held steady.
But are you seeing that your competitors in that market are getting any more aggressive in terms of pricing? We're not really here to comment on our competitors.
The way the leases work are not always the same.
We've got our triple-net model some people don't have the triple-net model.
Their operating expense pass-throughs may look different.
So I don't really want to comment on our competitors but we've seen our returns hold and I can only really comment on ourselves.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
Then just second question on straight-line rent Mark you kind of mentioned that you'll be down a little bit in Q2 and then down significantly in Q3 and Q4.
Given that you've got leasing expectations for New Jersey Santa Clara and ACC6 for the back half of the year it seems like -- are you suggesting either that there's going to be very little contribution from those assets in 2011 even though they're going to be fairly leased or that you expect free rent trends at those projects to be less than maybe what some of your development projects have been historically? Well I think you've got to almost look at each asset standalone because let's face it 2 buildings we're not opening until mid- to late Q3.
So it's really a little bit in Q3 and then Q4.
So we have one lease in hand in Santa Clara.
We only have penciled in 2 small leases between now and year end to get the 22% leased.
In New Jersey we're at 22% we're projecting to go to 50%.
Those leases are kind of Q2 3 and 4.
Obviously full run rates as you hit the end of the year.
And then in ACC6 again we're not opening until late Q3 so the same issue there.
So the burnoff of free rent as you call it for leases signed late last year early this year is where you're seeing that come mostly into play.
LLC</strong> But I guess is it fair to assume that you'll have an initial free-rent period in most of the new development projects in leasing...
Yes I think that's a fair statement that we...
We really like to call it the ramp in that these tenants would -- say a 2 megawatt room will need -- will conceal [ph] about 8 000 servers.
That tenant doesn't necessarily put in 8 000 servers in day one.
They will build into that and typically that process may take about 18 months.
And on a 10-year lease we'll have some level of ramp which call it a year call it sometimes 6 months sometimes 18 months for that ramp to be -- for the rent to follow the ramp as the tenant builds up on a must-take basis.
LLC</strong> Right yes.
The cash rent follows the ramp but the GAAP rent is kind of flat throughout...
Exactly.
No different than the commercial office guys.
Our next question comes from Sloan Bohlen of Goldman Sachs.
I just have one question.
We've had 2 quarters now where you've had an existing tenant give back some space to take bigger space in a newer facility.
Can you give us a sense of whether you've got other tenants that are looking at that type of opportunity? And maybe just give us a sense as to why it's not expansion space as opposed to just taking on new space.
I think it depends on the application of each tenant.
I wouldn't put them all in the same category.
In this particular case it was simply that the tenant initially was worried that we would not build Phase II -- and I'm presuming this -- and so they took everything we had in the building.
When they realized we're going to have Phase II available the rooms that were smaller that were less optimum for them they asked if we could give those back assuming they took a big chunk which was 3.9 megawatts in Phase II.
And we accommodated them.
And I think one of the advantages of being a data center operator/landlord in multiple jurisdictions that is constantly building is that we can accommodate the tenants' needs from one market to another.
Or if their demands change many times we will look at the leases in place and make accommodations for them although those accommodations are generally not written in the lease.
Okay.
And then in general most of these tenants they're not looking to migrate out of markets right? One of your competitors had said that location relative to their operations is generally a pretty key determination.
Yes that's absolutely true.
I mean there are tenants that generally -- let's face it 95% of our tenants is new expansion space.
It's not consolidation.
So typically is whether they'll expand into a new market and whether they want to go into a Phase II of a current market.
It's not moving out it's simply where they want to expand next.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore.
Listen I just want to get an understanding Hossein.
I think there's been a lot of concern that the market has sort of changed over the last 12 or 18 months.
And from your perspective if maybe you could give us some color as to how you see the playing field today versus 12 or 18 months ago.
And as a subpart of that question while I know that you see different customers in different geographies has there been any change in terms of the customer profile that's been coming through in terms of some of the tours? First of all I would say no.
We have not seen any change in profile.
Obviously I think what you're talking about there was a big pent-up demand 18 months ago that some of our competitors may -- took advantage of of getting some extraordinarily high rents in the say the Santa Clara area where the social network sites.
But those rents were not really sustainable or achievable.
We never achieved or we never went after getting a 30% rent hike at the time because those customers were repeat customers with us and we would always give them the then-escalated rent even though they were squeezed for space.
So we haven't seen any rent drop but we never saw the rent spike 18 months ago.
And as far as the tenant profile well Internet tenants grow very very rapidly.
And a tenant that grows beyond 15 megawatts or so they'll start looking at building their own space.
But we're in the outsourcing business.
But behind that tenant there is always 5 new tenants that are growing very rapidly.
And those 5 new tenants we see them interested in the space and their business is growing and slowly their valuation's increasing and then coming to us for new space.
Right.
And in terms of that customer evolution though we really haven't seen any customers move out of your data centers though at this point.
They may have started to build some of their own space but we haven't seen anybody make a move to leave.
Yes that's consistent with what we've seen.
And generally they are building their own for just expansion space.
It doesn't necessarily mean they're moving out.
We provide a good product and a good service which we think is a fair price and we mean to please our customers all the time.
So I think your comment is correct.
All right.
One last question if I may.
Facebook put out some information around open source data centers kind of laid out some different architecture.
We've also been hearing a lot about containerized data centers for expansion in a more modular sense.
DuPont Fabros has its own design for its data centers which has been very consistent across your footprint.
How do you feel about some of the new designs that are coming into the marketplace? Have you guys considered implementing any of the energy-saving or scalability elements of some of those new designs? And how do you think they rate relative to where you guys are? I think some designs are very innovative but not for everyone.
And I'll give you -- I was by the way there at the Facebook event the day they had their presentation.
And I think on certain applications for them and not for everything they do for certain types of things they do that design is perfect.
But for example that design relies on servers running outside of the actuary range with essentially no air-conditioning.
They've got some air movement of air.
Now our customers in general want air-conditioning.
So if a tenant is willing to take certain aspects of risk they can save costs.
And that's essentially is how much risk does the tenant want to take.
We need to run our business kind of in the middle of the road where we feel that most of our tenants have a risk tolerance.
And with certain designs you could increase risk and reduce costs.
Now Facebook has been very successful to do that and they'll be using it for certain applications.
And it's a similar saying with the modular design of data centers.
The modular design we feel there's absolutely a place in the market for it.
The initial cost what we're seeing -- and we look at this very very carefully -- is on an N plus 2  system it's similar to our construction costs in Virginia.
So there's not -- and for the same cost we're getting like a real building versus than the modular metal trailer of a data center.
Now if you're a tenant and have a 400-kilowatt need and absolutely want your data to be near your office building that trailer is perfect to hook up at the back of your parking lot of your office building but it not necessarily will replace the data center.
We're also seeing operating costs on a 36-megawatt building drop significantly on a per-kilowatt basis than some of the smaller designs.
So again we're looking at it.
Whatever aspects of design we can use we are using.
And some of them is not really things like that are -- it's things that everyone in the data center industry has been thinking about.
For example many people have been thinking about some of the Facebook design and running higher voltages.
So some of those aspects all of us are looking at very carefully and incorporating from one design to another.
But the way we see it right now is that these innovations are good for certain applications but the mainstream low-cost high-efficient buildings will always be a demand for.
We'll go next to Romeo Reyes of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of quick questions here.
The $375 million of CapEx for 2011 the Santa Clara I and Chicago Phase II how much will you have built by the end of the year with that $375 million of CapEx? Those will be completely finished so expect on those -- those buildings will be opened and commissioned in late Q3.
There'll be obviously some contingency fallout spend after the fact maybe in Q4 but the bulk of that will be finished by the end of the year.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Second quick question.
On NJ1 and Chicago Phase I the $47 million of base rent that you have in Q1 how much of the leases for NJ1 does that -- does that represent all 22% in Chicago? It was 9%.
The last lease will commence April 1.
So I think in the details of our press release we had a chart that laid out.
It was 9% as of 3/31 and one lease beginning in Q2.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So that doesn't represent the full 22% prelease? That's correct.
Only 9%.
Inc.</strong> And Chicago Phase I? Chicago was the full -- at 95%.
Obviously we had the 5% the 2 rooms to give back.
But it's 95%.
We'll go next to Rob Stevenson of Macquarie.
Can you tell me a little bit about what you're seeing in terms of development costs today? If you were to start either ACC Phase II or Santa Clara Phase II what the construction cost differential would wind up being on a per square foot basis versus their Phase Is? Well I mean the Phase IIs to the extent that we've built the shell and the land we obviously don't need that money and we've also spent the design.
So that money aspect of it would be saved.
But as far as any inflationary pressures on us everywhere the markets that we're in the labor is unionized.
So that labor generally doesn't go down and if anything it goes up with inflation.
As far as equipment costs there have not been dramatic increases or reductions in equipment costs that we're seeing on new equipment.
On precast concrete we're seeing some savings only because the precast concrete plants can't be shut down.
But on aspects of the construction costs like a sand and gravel operation to the extent that there is a recession and the sand and gravel operation needs business the owner of that sand and gravel operation simply shuts down that business.
And so we don't really see dramatic reduction in construction costs.
So what we've generally done and again I'm speaking very broadly with our innovation and design we're able to get -- produce data centers in each of the markets similar to the last data center that we built.
So we're keeping up with inflation but not going down or up any other way in general.
Okay that's helpful.
And then a quick question on land.
At the IPO you guys had -- you and Lammot had like 40 acres in Phoenix and 500-and-some acres in northern Virginia.
Can you sort of talk about whether or not that stuff is -- how much more of that stuff might be applicable for data center and whether or not it might come into the REIT at some point? I think in northern Virginia to the extent I kind of -- as a feel of the REIT I think the REIT has tremendously benefited from our personal landholdings in that the REIT essentially has a free option which has a value that they're not paying for that they can take land down from us as they need it.
And like other REITs that they continuously have to in the best market in the country which is northern Virginia look for land and buy it we essentially as the REIT needs it we'll sell the REIT land at fair market prices.
But Virginia is the only place where that exists.
And the amount of land that we own in Virginia I would look at it as infinite almost as far as the REIT is concerned in the near future.
The REIT -- I mean if I had to put a number of years we have enough land for the next 10 years for the REIT.
So that's never going to come into play that the REIT is going to need -- to run out of land.
So it's a huge benefit to DuPont Fabros Technology that as they need it they can take down land from us.
Okay.
And then I guess the other question that sort of dovetails in with that is how aggressively are you guys looking for land in other markets today? Because I would imagine that even though that you could grow for well into the future in New Jersey -- I mean into northern Virginia that that would be sort of problematic to you guys ever getting sort of investment grade debt rating et cetera given the concentration of assets issue.
Well don't forget that our landholdings in the other 3 markets we're just getting into the Phase IIs.
So in New Jersey in Chicago we're just building the Phase II and in Santa Clara we have enough expansion space for Phase IIs.
So that's an additional 18 megawatts of growth already in place.
So we don't want the REITs holding necessarily more land in those areas and having to carry it when we have an expansion option that can essentially double our footprint in each of the 3 markets.
Our next question comes from Sri Nagarajan of FBR.
I have two specific questions.
First in follow-up to the earlier question.
Curious as to the timing of the land purchase in particular since you have ACC6 Phase II as well as ACC7 in tow what background can you give us on the timing of the land purchase this quarter? Don't forget design of data centers and it takes us the way we improve them generally 6 months of the year to design it.
So the timing of the -- typically we want to be a few years ahead of that.
So the timing of the close would be sometime in the next 6 months.
Okay.
I guess there was no urgent need per se in terms of closing it in the next 6 months right because you have ACC7 as well? That's correct.
I mean obviously ACC6 Phase I is -- we're opening the doors this summer.
We have obviously Phase II.
That's a smaller footprint.
So that -- 13 plus 13 is 26 megawatts.
But the idea of -- we do have an ACC7 piece of land it's roughly a 10-megawatt building.
Obviously we like the bigger platform 36-floor and most tenants like that.
But I think what we would do is after ACC6 Phase II is done we would move to build a building on the new land that can accommodate a 36-megawatt building and we would keep what was previously called ACC7 land for a user.
Fair enough.
Second question there have been a myriad of questions on New Jersey but here's another angle at this.
What competitive supply are you tracking in New Jersey? And does that worry you today? No I think if you look at -- some of the analysts have done a very decent job as a supply report.
And I think that some of the supplies -- if someone is building a shell we don't call that a supply.
If someone has intention of building a data center we don't call that a supply.
And if someone has built a retail space we don't call that a supply.
So once you take those elements out we're comfortable that the demand in the market is ripe for the supply.
We'll go next to John Stewart of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong> Hossein on the remaining land that you own outside the REIT is the ownership structure similar there where you and Lammot have a 40% interest? No it's different but I'm not -- no it's not.
It's different.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And the partner on the parcel that was just acquired were they in any way affiliated with the REIT or completely independent? There was one party that was affiliated with the REIT and they were not allowed to make any votes on the voting.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just to make sure I understand on New Jersey specifically should we infer from your comments that basically standard terms would be a year of free rent on a 10-year deal with 3% bumps? I don't want to go there because we have -- it depends on the rents depends on the credits depends on the size of the deals.
I don't want to necessarily model that in.
So it's too generic to say yes to that.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the 4Q '11 termination option.
Sorry if I missed this but did you handicap whether you think they are likely to renew? Or is that government contract at risk? We believe it's more likely they will renew.
From what we hear on the ground it is not at risk.
Our next question comes from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Yes most of my questions have been answered.
I just had a quick question about ACC6.
Hossein would you venture to say that one of the reasons that you haven't leased up any space in that asset at this point was because you did have availability in ACC5 and so as a result potential tenants wanted that space first before going over to ACC6? I think the need for the tenants that we saw in ACC5 was an immediate need so they took the space in 5.
I think the quality of the assets they're both very similar.
If anything ACC6 is slightly superior.
But Tayo we just leased 4.5 megawatts at 5 this past quarter so I think you're on the right track that they obviously grabbed that space because they needed it now they didn't need it this summer.
Inc.</strong> Got it that's helpful.
And then NJ1 that's 22% leased but only 9% occupied.
Can you give us a sense of when the other 13% of the signed leases commence? It commenced April 1 so the first day of Q2.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So they've started up already.
Yes.
We'll go next to Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
On the land parcel so when do you envision actually starting construction on the land you just purchased? I don't want to say it because that would mean I'm telling you when we're announcing it.
But we don't have an immediate plan for the REIT to have inventory as other REITs you may have noticed.
It takes us a significant amount of time at least for DuPont Fabros to develop the next product.
And from ACC4 to ACC5 we made 250 changes only 2 of which are visible with the naked eye.
So we want to control our future to be able to design a product that we're very proud of and improves on what we currently have.
So after the purchase we'll start that engineering process.
But Ross specifically ACC6 Phase I would have to be 100% leased.
Phase II we would be in the middle of building that.
That would have to be well on the way leased before we'd even think of putting the shovel in the ground on that new 36.4-megawatt building.
So if you assume an 18-month lease-up on 6 Phase I whether that goes faster that would be great.
We will build it as fast as we need from an inventory perspective.
What we don't like is to sit here today with no inventory in northern Virginia.
I guess that all makes perfect sense to me.
I guess it begs the question then why did the REIT buy the land now? It sounds like the free option isn't so free because now you're going to be carrying this land for 18 months before you start building on it.
Well I think it's just part of the growth story.
We think -- obviously there's other folks buying data center land in northern Virginia and can tout the fact that they can grow and we want to do the same.
For $9.6 million we think that's the right carry for us.
And frankly the price that the land is on the contract is significantly lower on a per-acre basis and significantly lower on a per-buildable-foot basis than any other data center that's created.
So it's a terrific price for the REIT to own it.
Okay.
On the development yields you quoted that the 12% on New Jersey Santa Clara and Chicago and the 15% on Ashburn are those GAAP or are those cash just to confirm? It's GAAP at the first quarter of stabilization -- of lease commencement for all buildings.
So let's take say on New Jersey what do you think the initial cash yield is the day these things are 100% occupied? And how long does it take -- I guess you're saying it's going to take 6 to 18 months before it hits its fully stabilized cash yield.
Well cash is a mixture.
Obviously there's base rent that potentially has this free-rent period of time.
But the tenant pass-throughs recoveries typically start day one.
So we focus on leasing the building.
Free rent is a function of as Hossein explained who the tenant is how long how much space they want et cetera et cetera.
So at a minimum it's 6 months.
It could be a year.
Our next question comes from Chris Lucas of Robert W.
Baird.
Hossein I guess on the land parcel one last question at least from my perspective.
I did notice on a recent trip out to the development site at ACC6 that all of the trailers had been moved much of the construction equipment had been moved to what appears to be the parcel you're going to acquire.
I guess I was curious as to whether or not the REIT is paying any rent for the usage of that storage right now to the current owners of the parcel.
No I mean in a sense of again just us controlling this land and I hope this is the last question is a huge benefit.
The partnership allowed the REIT to store dirt on the land to store trailers on the land and use it at will without paying any additional rent or anything.
So whenever we had dirt moved on it we allowed that.
Whenever they needed fill from it we allowed that and to essentially use it as a storage site without paying any rent.
Okay great.
And then on the demand in northern Virginia I guess it's been almost a year since the President issued an executive order mandating a reduction in real estate expenses broadly and specifically on a consolidation of data centers within the federal government.
Have you seen any movement either from the federal government or from the contractors that might support that effort in terms of potential demand in northern Virginia at this point? From time to time there are various RFPs that we bid on but I wouldn't model it in on any event.
And I think part of the misconception here is the federal government has said they'll close 800 data centers.
But what was being very unclear and I've been saying that for a year is what is their definition of a data center? And there was a recent article that came out that calculated some of these data centers are 500 square feet or 1 000 square feet or 10 000 square feet.
So some of these are very very small.
And it's unclear what that definition is of the closure of these.
And they said they're closing 137 data centers.
And one of the analysts I believe it was Tier1 did a writeup that actually came out and it validated my point that some of those data centers are very very small and that I wouldn't even call them a data center.
Right.
But it's really a consolidation rather than a closure.
And I think it will be big.
But I mean to answer your question we haven't seen a huge interest from the federal government other than the typical stuff we bid on.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take a follow-up question from Michael Bilerman of Citi.
It's Mark Montandon here with Michael.
Just had a question on possible refinancing of your $500 million 8.5% notes.
It looks like the public market is giving you a much lower rate than that.
I didn't know if you had given that any consideration and what the possible timeline would be on that.
On the secured loan or the unsecured loan? On the unsecured loan the 8.5%.
Well I believe that's a 4-year period that we can't touch it or obviously pay a premium if we take it out.
But we're -- obviously our bonds those bonds are trading very nicely right now.
The idea of taking that out in the near-term is not on the radar.
We will obviously look at that secured loan that has a Q4 '14 maturity date to deal with that.
But at that point we may look at it.
But sitting here today we don't envision touching that at least in 2011.
And have you priced what the take-out price -- I guess what you could achieve in the market today? I think you can look that up on Bloomberg.
Notes are generally trading around the 6% range.
And you think you could achieve that? Have you talked to your lenders recently? Well it's not a lender it's a bond right? So you as the bondholder so if you wanted to you would go out.
But we can't because of the prepayment penalty.
But typically they're trading at that range and you would think if you wanted to do it it would be in the range that they're trading now.
Our next will be a follow-up question from Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc.
I'll try to make this quick.
We've got a reasonable handle on supply.
Can you maybe help us out on the demand ranking your markets where you're seeing the most rank today in terms of tours or demand? Just maybe ranking the 4 markets.
Yes I think you guys at KeyBanc did a great job on your supply report and the recent one you published.
I think on the demand side I would say the New Jersey is the fourth out of our market the fourth-best market.
The third-best market I would say is probably right now may be Chicago tied with Santa Clara.
And the best would be probably Virginia in terms of overall demand.
That's sort of an interesting combination because in terms of availability of existing sort of stock we've got sort of almost nothing available in terms of wholesale inventory in northern Virginia yet you've got this strong demand.
So is it safe to assume that we should expect a significant level of activity there? We're talking to people.
But don't forget the majority of the demand that's coming online will be us delivering 13 megawatts.
Your supply.
Right.
Yes.
So the majority of the supply will be us supplying the big supply in northern Virginia.
And I think other people know others developers know there's no secret that we're supplying 13 megawatts and they may not necessarily want to compete with us.
I was just going to say do you expect the demand to come from inside of your existing park there as we've seen in sort of previous instances? I think there always will be good demand from inside.
I would say probably 50-50.
I think northern Virginia I would rank has always been the best market number 1 or number 2 in the country.
I think in terms of supply Chicago is very very tight right now.
But the Chicago demand I wouldn't say necessarily is as strong as northern Virginia or Santa Clara.
Again so in Santa Clara on the other side we have more supply available but better demand as well.
And again we're seeing many tenants that we have in Virginia also look at Santa Clara.
And the way our buildings are designed which is essentially the same engineering same infrastructure they can look at their pods that they're in in Virginia and essentially cut and paste their design into a product in Santa Clara which would save them time expenses and a lot of thinking.
Our final question will come from Brendan Maiorana of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Just a quick follow-up for Mark.
The other revenue line was down fairly sharply in this quarter.
I think -- it looks like you kept the guidance about the same.
So I guess the forward expectation would be kind of $2.5 million to $3 million per quarter from that line item.
Is that still accurate? Yes I'd probably steer you toward the low end of that $8 million.
Obviously this other income line is a function of the one-time projects with regards to building out rooms as they open.
So as we envision buying up new leases between now and year end that work we have to bid on that work.
We win the majority of it but we don't win all of it.
So it's margin business only because the other expense line is down as well.
So from an EBITDA or a FFO perspective it's not big dollars but it is something we like to help our customers and prospective tenants when they do that.
But it's a function of winning leases and then in round 2 winning the buildout of the rooms.
So it's one-time nonrecurring type of work.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Thank you for joining us today.
Good day everyone and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Technology Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager of DuPont Fabros.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's Second Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued last night which is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be limited to 2 per caller.
If you have additional questions please feel free to return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our second quarter 2011 earnings call.
As noted in last night's press release we again delivered solid financial results which Mark will discuss later in the call.
We continue to strengthen our business and increase shareholder value.
Our focus remains on leasing development and providing our tenants with the utmost in customer service.
The company's continued success would not be possible without the valued contribution made by everyone at DFT.
I thank each of you for all your hard work and dedication.
First and foremost our focus is leasing.
So therefore I would like to begin with a leasing update.
Microsoft comprises approximately of 18% of the company's annualized net base rent as of June 30.
We reached an agreement with Microsoft to extend a 9.6 megawatt lease for an additional 8 years.
This lease was scheduled to begin to expire in 1.6 megawatt increments in 2012.
The new lease begins to expire in 2020 and continues through 2025.
The renew represents over 40% of all current critical load they have with us.
We are very pleased that they have decided to extend their relationship with us.
Yahoo! comprises approximately of 19% of the company's annualized base rent as of June 30.
Their recent lease expiration range from 2012 to 2019.
Yahoo! informed us in late June 2011 that they will not renew one of their leases representing 3% of the company's consolidated annualized base rent as of June 30 2011.
This lease expiration represents approximately 19% of all current critical loads they have with us.
This building is located in Western Virginia a very fiber-rich area.
We are actively marketing this space and are optimistic about its leasing prospects.
This lease will expire on April 30 2012.
Yahoo!'s next lease is scheduled to expire in the third quarter of 2015.
A third lease is scheduled to expire in equal increments in 2017 2018 and 2019.
All of the Yahoo! space continues to be utilized.
Facebook comprises approximately 21% of the company's annualized base rent as of June 30.
Their lease expirations range from 2018 to 2022.
As of today we have no lease expirations in 2011.
Page 10 of our earnings release package includes a table that details our updates of lease expirations incorporating our recent leasing and renewal activity.
We have less than 10% of our annualized base rent expiring through the end of 2014.
As of June 30 our top 3 tenants represent 58% of our annualized base rent.
The impact of Microsoft's renewal has increased the average remaining lease term for our entire portfolio from 6.6 years to 7.1 years.
This is typical for tenants to evaluate their leases future lease extensions within 9 to 12 months of expiration against their anticipated needs for server capacity and economic cycles.
As we all know it could be extremely expensive and cost-prohibitive for tenants to move out of their [indiscernible].
The data center economics of build versus buy remained a hot topic and each of our larger tenants can do both.
As an outsourcing solution we continue to believe the company's current and future capacity planning needs drive this decision not the fact that they can afford to build one.
During the second quarter we signed 3 leases totaling 3.25 megawatts of available critical load.
One lease is for 433 kilowatts of Phase I of Chicago and is with an existing technology tenant.
The second lease which was previously disclosed on our last earnings call is with a technology tenant for 2.28 megawatts in Santa Clara.
The third lease is with an existing tenant within our Ashburn Corporate Center and it's for -- sorry for 548 kilowatts in ACC6.
This is our first lease within ACC6.
Subsequent to the second quarter we signed one lease with a new technology tenant for 569 kilowatts of critical load in New Jersey.
This increases our lease critical load to 25%.
Since the beginning of this year we have executed 9 new leases totaling 17.5 megawatts.
This compares with 23 megawatts in all of 2010 and 37 megawatts in all of 2009.
As we have stated in the past the company operates in only 4 submarkets and have less than 30 tenants.
We do not believe that -- it is good business practice to discuss specific tenant rents.
The key to increasing the value of the DFT is leasing.
We've been successful in leasing in the past and we are confident in our ability to lease what is in front of us.
We are in the top market in the U.S.
We remain comfortable with our 100% leasing target.
They remain -- begin the fourth quarter of 2012 for New Jersey and the end of first quarter 2013 for both ACC6 and Santa Clara.
Chicago Phase II should lease up by the end of first quarter of 2013.
There is sufficient demand in all markets to absorb our inventory.
We are now the primary supplier in all these major markets.
We remain confident with demand in Santa Clara market even though we did not sign a new lease since our last call.
We understand there was a large common private equity player who invested in both a private data center provider and a number of data center tenants.
This caused a large amount of space to be absorbed in the Santa Clara market by the private data center provider.
Our understanding is that this provider has only a few megawatts of available data center space remaining.
We expect the Santa Clara market to continue to absorb a large amount of space within the next 18 [ph].
Our sales and leasing teams have been working diligently meeting [ph] with multiple potential tenants and providing a consistent number of tours.
That has not changed.
The demand we're tracking in each of our markets is solid and covers a wide range of industry verticals.
As I have said in the past leasing is lumpy.
One cannot straight-line lease executions over the available critical load of the building[ph].
In summary we continue to make good progress.
Leasing is our biggest opportunity to drive cash flow and value.
This continues to be everyone's relentless focus.
Now I will turn over the call to Mark who will take you through our financial results.
Thank you Hossein.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I want to cover 3 main topics today: Our balance sheet update our second quarter results and a 2011 guidance update.
As for our balance sheet we worked with our lender group to amend our ACC5 secured term loan.
The amendment eliminated the LIBOR floor of 1.5% and also lowered the LIBOR spread from 4.25% to 3%.
This results in annualized interest cost savings of approximately $3.5 million and lowers our overall weighted average interest rate by 50 basis points.
We considered issuing an unsecured bond to take this debt out and push our debt maturities further into the future but our lender group was very willing to work with us to lower the overall cost of the ACC5 term loan.
As a reminder we have no debt maturities until December of 2014.
We finalized the purchase of a 23-acre parcel of land in Ashburn Virginia for $9.6 million in cash.
The parcel is currently utilized to house construction materials and trailers for our ACC6 development.
At the appropriate time this land will be used to build an additional data center.
We are fully funded to complete Chicago Phase 2 with the use of our cash on hand and the $100 million revolving line of credit as necessary.
We do not expect to begin any new development in 2011.
And we'll continue to keep leverage low and expect to improve on key debt covenants.
In summary our balance sheet is in great shape.
As to our second quarter results for 2011 the company's FFO was $0.42 per share compared to $0.33 per share in the second quarter of 2010 an increase of 27%.
The result is primarily from increased operating income from lease commencements.
Quarterly revenues were $70.8 million our highest ever.
This increase was $11.5 million or 19% over the second quarter of 2010.
AFFO was $0.30 per share for the second quarter compared to $0.21 per share quarter-over-quarter an increase of 43%.
AFFO year-over-year was up $17 million or over 60%.
AFFO was up $4.2 million or 21% quarter-over-quarter sequentially.
Cash rents drove these increases.
For the 6 months ended revenues increased 20% from $116 million to $139 million.
FFO per share for the same period increased from $0.63 to $0.80 or 27%.
Our FFO guidance range for the third quarter of 2011 is $0.42 to $0.44 per share.
We tightened our full year guidance range from $1.50 to $1.70 per share to $1.57 to $1.63 per share.
We remain comfortable with our original midpoint of $1.60 for the year.
As a reminder this represents a 20% increase over 2010.
Revenues were lower primarily related to lower nonrecurring other revenues.
We have approximately $2 million of speculative revenue in Q4 down from $5 million I referred to on the last call.
We tightened and lowered G&amp;A and interest expense for the remainder of the year.
We expect approximately $9 million of capitalized interest in Q3 and a drop off in Q4 as we expect to stop capitalization of interest on ACC6 in August and Santa Clara in September.
We expect approximately $7 million straight-line rent in Q3 and the remainder in Q4.
Our 2011 guidance for the remainder of the year contemplates a small capital raise which we have penciled in for late in the fourth quarter.
This additional capital will only be required if we elect to pay down the anticipated balance on our line at the end of the year which we project to be about $40 million.
As for our cash CapEx development spend for the remainder of the year we plan to spend $100 million in Q3 for total spend of approximately $375 million for the year.
The details of our '11 guidance can be found on Page 15 of our press release.
We believe our solid balance sheet and financial condition give us great flexibility which will enable us to continue to grow the company in a prudent and consistent way to the benefit of our shareholders.
With that let me turn it back over back to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
Before we open up the call for questions let me offer a few comments.
Today the New York Stock Exchange announced they will be building a Secure Financial Transaction Infrastructure otherwise known as SFTI Access Center at NJ1.
This will allow NJ1 tenants to directly connect to NYSE's SFTI low-latency high-speed fully secured redundant network.
NYSE's SFTI Access Center will give NJ1 a clear advantage for latency-sensitive trading platforms over data centers without a direct connection.
This enables us to achieve -- this will help enable us to achieve our leasing targets.
We continue to expand our carrier relationships and add new carriers in all our newly delivered developments.
Lastly leasing remains our top priority.
We continue to see demand in all our 4 markets.
This is a key driver in increasing shareholder value.
We will complete our 3 developments on time and on budget and we'll be deliberate in our new development.
With that we'll be happy to turn over the call -- open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I wanted to follow up on where you left off on the New York Stock Exchange announcement.
I assume that an existing tenant or one of the leases that was just signed in the quarter or post quarter end.
And I was just curious if you could maybe expand upon what that --what  this opportunity is and how you would expect it to draw additional tenants and maybe the additional pipeline for New Jersey.
The New York Stock Exchange announcement it is not a lease.
It means that we have now a direct connection to their data center.
This is a huge achievement for DFT as there are only 5 or 6 direct connections to New York Stock Exchange and I believe only one in New Jersey.
So it enables tenants that want to set up trading platforms to trade with New York Stock Exchange to co-locate with us to have access to the low-latency trading platform.
So does that answer your question Jordan? Yes that's helpful.
And then just if you could maybe talk about the pipeline in New Jersey and just more broadly up...
We actually feel very good about our traffic and I think things are turning around in New Jersey for us.
We feel very good about our traffic.
We feel the market has tightened up and we feel that this and the other deals we're working on is making us feel very optimistic about New Jersey.
And your leasing targets for the full year or by year-end that were in Mark's guidance the commencement: 50% in New Jersey 30% in ACC6 Santa Clara 22% are those still expected to be achieved in the guidance? Well from a target -- Jordan this is Mark.
From a target perspective obviously that's where we're headed.
It's not a spread it's a marathon so we're focused on the 12 18 to 24 month windows.
We did lower the spec revenue for Q4 which obviously is a function of those percents.
So we may hit 1 or 2 we may not.
But we -- that is the game plan for guidance for this year.
We did lower spec revenue by $3 million.
In terms of the lease start dates we still could hit the leasing percentages but in terms of commencements in 2011 they will -- we were expecting them to slip into '12.
I mean those leasing guidelines for the midyear we really looked at where we would be at the 100% and kind of took an  approximately like a halfway mark to it.
It's not a -- leasing will always remain lumpy but we're optimistic about New Jersey.
We think -- feel that things have turned around there and we feel good about it.
And just a follow-up on the renewal commentary.
Can you give us a sense of what the terms of the renewable were beyond the 8 years? I mean was there a mark-to-market or any additional capital spend for you? There was no additional capital spend for us but as we said on our prepared remarks because we only have 30 tenants it's really bad business practice for us to specifically talk about specific tenant rent specially because in this case we outlined that the tenant is Microsoft and we don't want people to -- it's just bad business practice as you can imagine.
Next we'll hear from Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Hossein I know you don't want to kind of give specific commentary about tenants but can you shed a little light on the decision not to renew by Yahoo!? And then as you would look at the prospects for leasing that space up if you look at the VA3 project having 5.7 megawatts there of availability starting next year combined with ACC6 combined I guess that's kind of a -- one of the larger it's roughly 18 or 19 megawatts in line with one of the larger new development projects that you would look at so should we kind of assume a 2-year lease up if we look at those 2 projects combined? Well I mean when you look at it they are a little bit different markets.
Let me address your comments one at a time.
Our VA3 is 95 watts a square foot in Reston Virginia which is -- it suits very well for resellers.
It's a terrific market for a reseller in that wattage per square foot.
A typical reseller can put their corridors in and put their cages in and really end up with space that's like 140 watts per square foot within the cage.
That's a little bit of -- and Reston is sitting on Sunset Hills Road.
It is -- and Sunrise Valley Drive.
Those 2 roads on either side of the toll road are the most fiber-rich environment in the entire country.
So the point I'm trying to make is VA3 and Ashburn don't necessarily attract the same tenant space.
So in that I wouldn't necessarily put them in the same bucket.
And don't forget ACC6 we started off with about yes 13 megawatts not the usual 18.2.
So I would look at VA3 I would assume specifically by the time Yahoo! leaves my expectation is to have approximately 40% of that space to be pre-leased.
With ACC6 we've given our guidance as to when the leasing would be 100%.
LLC</strong> Sure that's helpful.
And then can you just provide any color in terms of why Yahoo! decided not to renew? Is this going to a competitor facility? Is it going to one of...
No I think on that specific space it was only a small amount of space for such a large company and they wanted to be within larger spaces.
As I stated in the past their next lease with us is much larger and is not until 2015 where it comes up for renewal.
LLC</strong> And the rate that they're currently paying versus market rate do you expect that to be up flat or down? Again we -- I do not want to comment on specific market rent as because it's bad for our business.
Next we'll hear from Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Just going back to the declining straight-line revenues and the idea that these leases are still going to be signed but commencement is going to be likely to get pushed out to 2012 could you just talk a little bit about the business rationale from your potential tenants about why the lease they're going to be starting much later than earlier when -- that you were initially anticipating? This is Mark Tayo.
I mean that the game plan all along is to execute leases to get them commenced.
The issue of timing just like here in Washington this issue with the -- decisions have been delayed.
So we think we're on the right path.
As we said the tours are there the interest is there decision-making just seems to drag on.
But the reduction of straight-line rent is a function of leases starting.
And that's part of the overall revenue midpoint range going down by $10 million $7 million of which was the other income bucket.
Tayo just to -- this is Hossein to talk about we always said leasing is lumpy.
Our original estimates are what they were as to when we were going to be fully leased.
But to talk about whether a lease commencement on one lease starts in one quarter or another quarter was -- it's really a -- when we're only talking for about a handful of leases where sometimes you're early sometimes you're one quarter later.
Inc.</strong> I mean I understand that.
But I'm trying to make this distinction between -- it's one thing if you actually sign the leases this year but they commence later which is the argument you're making for the reduction in straight-line rent.
But if everything is slowing down and decision-making process is slowing down should we be concerned that even the actual lease-signing those will get pushed into 2012? Time will tell.
I mean we're hopefully [ph] every day on leases.
I mean as far as we're giving you our best estimates of where we think the data centers will be fully leased and we feel very good about the market but like I said they are lumpy.
They're not -- when you're only talking about a handful of leases some come early or some come later.
As far as the Internet yes the Internet has not started slowing down.
We feel very good about our market.
But sometimes I guess we have some quarters with 13 megawatts of leasing and some quarters you're going to have less leasing.
Inc.</strong> All right.
And then just the leases that were signed this quarter anything you need to the fact that these leases except for the one that was discussed on the last earnings call that these leases are kind of like smaller deals 500-kilowatt deals.
Is that kind of the marketplace right now versus the larger soon-to-be-megawatt deals? No I would say that's not the case.
I know like I said in my prepared remarks that there were some very large leases done in the Santa Clara market but they went to a private equity player.
And if you remember on our last quarter we had some very large leases signed in Chicago.
So yes I don't believe this is a indicative market change.
I just think that this quarter we didn't find a huge amount of leases.
But I don't believe the Internet has stopped growing and we're still signing -- we're still working on some larger transactions.
In Chicago Tayo we only had a couple of small rooms left if you recall.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Why do you think you lost the leases to the private equity guy? Was it pricing? Was it...
No.
Like I said on my private -- I think the majority of it surrounded where there was a common investor in both the assets in the tenant and the player.
And they drove some leases to that player.
We didn't even get a look at some of those leases.
Next we'll hear from Dave Rogers with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Hossein to follow-up on your comments on Microsoft it sounds like of your Microsoft space that's left you got another somewhere between 50% and 60% of that space left to renew.
You said 2015 was the next renewal.
They clearly left the lower-powered entity space maintained some of the higher-power space.
Can you talk about that 2015 space without rent but talk about the type of use of that space? Is that high-density or fiber-rich space? And maybe why it wouldn't have been included in this round of negotiations.
Well I think that the space we're talking about I think you're talking about Yahoo!.
We mentioned the next Yahoo! lease expires in 2015.
The next Microsoft lease I believe expires around the same time as well but I'm not sure if we have announced specifically as to when that is.
The question is no the -- both spaces -- the space we -- they did extend this time was about 100 watts a square foot.
The next space that comes up is 150 watts a square foot.
But our negotiations typically with Microsoft surround the amount of megawatts of space not the density because they're a tenant that can use all the megawatts that we can give them.
So it's just too early to start negotiating on a lease that expires many years out.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I guess you talked about in your prepared comments adding network density to all the markets.
I mean you've had pretty good network density in the past.
Did you feel like that was a constricting factor on your ability to lease space anywhere in particular? And has there been a substantially added cost for any of that activity? The network density that we -- I think for New Jersey it's a different -- it's a newer market for us.
But my comments were more surrounded with adding more network density to New Jersey because in that market as we've said in the past we do expect smaller 1-megawatt type of customers.
In the other markets we're really not as concerned with network density for the type of tenants we have.
And we always capitalize the cost of any networks or their conduits that we need to the cost of the building.
And our new...
LLC</strong> Can I get a follow-up? Yes go ahead.
LLC</strong> And I guess maybe Mark a follow-up to that.
Your capitalized interest guidance was up but it seems like projects continue to be on pace.
Can you add any color to that? I didn't hear it in your prepared comments if you made it.
I think the issue really was the open dates for a couple of the months.
In the original guidance we anticipated because  the opening of the first of the Q3.
As I said in the prepared talk it was -- went in August and September for the 2 buildings.
So it's really a little bit of timing.
Some of the money was -- the money for the year is pretty consistent but we push it out the door maybe a little sooner so we capitalize on that money spent each and every month.
That's really the bulk of it.
Next we'll hear from Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore Partners.
I want to go back -- I just want to go back to the decrease in straight-line accounting because I'm a little bit confused here.
So the $3 million decrease that you noted in straight-line accounting comes from the push out of expected lease signings into next year is that correct? What I did was lower the top end of the range by $7 million.
Total revenue dropped by what $20 million.
So part of that straight line is just a function of when leases commence.
Okay.
When you sign a renewal a contract extension doesn't that increase your straight-line accounting? I mean just based on the contracts as I understand them this is probably a long-term contract.
It started -- previously you've talked about escalators in your contracts.
And so considering that of the exit point on that original contract even if renewed at the same terms from a starting point perspective should be much higher.
So I guess I would have thought that straight line would have gone up here.
Could you explain the accounting to me? It's -- obviously the lease just was executed -- the amendment was just executed the extension.
So we're only talking 4 5 months for '11.
So the increase is minimal for '11.
But there is a small increase I would agree with you on that.
But not enough to kind of move the needle with regard to this guidance.
Jonathan we only had for '11 1.6 megawatts.
Next we'll hear from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Manny Korchman's on with me as well.
Hossein you talked a little bit -- I know you don't want to disclose specific rents but clearly without even noting whether something was -- rents going down rents in line or rents up with even within a range on this renewal I think you got to provide some context so that people when they look at your lease roll we'll know sort of what a mark-to-market they should assume.
And this is not just 1% of your lease roll this is 7% of your rents.
So...
I do want to provide you Michael with more information but as of -- my responsibility is to make the right business decisions for running the business.
And I truly believe it is bad business practice on cost to specifically talk about market rents because people that may have known information in the past it may affect my other lease negotiations in the future.
So it's bad business practice and I'm not going to get into it.
But you understand that the market is always going to take with that sort of stance the market's going to assume the worst and it's going to assume that rents are flat to down and then potentially could become more negative.
So I'm curious why you wouldn't want to deflect some of that criticism and at least provide some sort of range or some sort of comfort that the rents are up.
Well I think Michael the comfort is that we renewed a lease with one of our top 3 tenants that has been a worry and concern of a lot of investors.
So we feel very good about that it's a single asset that they're in in 1 of our 7 buildings in the Virginia area.
So I mean the good news is that it was a renewal with one of the guys who could easily build their own.
And Michael the market you're right.
It's sometimes short term.
My interests are for the long-term running of the business and I think for the long-term running of the business it's bad business practice.
Okay.
In terms of -- we spent a lot of time talking about leasing and it's a marathon not a sprint.
It's your top priority that some quarters you're going to get a lot of leasing some quarters you're not.
It's a lumpy business.
But I guess is there other tangible things in terms of what's in the hopper that you can provide some comfort on? Obviously this quarter with only 1.5 megawatts of leasing since the last time we spoke on a quarterly call and being 3 smaller leases there obviously is a lot of concern especially with the lease commencement dates being pushed out.
And also absorption being happening in the market right? If you look in New Jersey you have Digital Sentinel i/o all signing megawatt leases.
You talked about Santa Clara.
So there's stuff happening in the marketplace and I think investors and analysts just want to get an understanding of what's the -- why is there this spread? Why is it -- are you holding on to rate? Are you holding on to something? Is it something with the assets? And so how can you bridge that gap for the street that we should have a lot of confidence that the leasing is going to come? And I don't know if there's leases that you're negotiating right now just to help us better -- gain more comfort with it.
Sure.
I mean we don't disclose our letters of intent as a matter of policy.
So if there are leases that we are working on and have signed letters of intent we will not disclose them.
On the activity I can tell you the activity on the number of tours has not changed across the board.
If anything we feel better about New Jersey right now than we did a few months ago.
As a matter of holding onto rate yes I feel that in the Santa Clara markets there was some deals we didn't see and some deals we waited until the space -- some of the space we were disciplined about what we wanted to get and whether it's rate or whether it's about our triple net structure.
And we waited for a significant amount of space that that private equity player had has been absorbed.
So it's a little bit different about each of the markets and we feel very good about our tours and the traffic.
And we -- it just so happens that we did admittedly have a slower quarter in leasing.
But we don't feel any different about the market or the growth of the Internet.
This is Mark.
I mean if you just -- history's a little bit of a lesson too.
2009 we averaged over 9 megawatts a quarter.
2010 we averaged just south of 6 a quarter.
This year we're running at 7.5 a quarter.
So if you map out what we have as inventory and pencil that out into the future we have to hit between 7 and 8 to hit our targets.
We think we can get there.
When you look at New Jersey my understanding was the New York Stock Exchange has their own data center.
Are they full op? Or is that...
Well I can't comment specifically on them but there are different applications that can go in the New York Stock Exchange's own data center rather than ones that are specifically connected to it.
I can tell you that there are 5 or 6 direct connections to the New York Stock Exchange.
We're the only other one in New Jersey.
So I think it's a very positive development.
It's Manny here with Michael.
Just one more.
Hossein following up on your earlier comment that you guys are kind of sticking to your guns in terms of rates and also policy are tenants asking for more concessions in leasing of space? Are they asking for abatements or free rent or incentives? I think that each market is different.
The -- We did feel that Santa Clara was a -- has a -- tenants were asking just because that private equity player had a lot of space on the market but that's now being absorbed.
But we were disciplined about what we needed to get.
I mean for example we heard through the grapevine that some landlord were willing to fix the power cost for a significant amount of time.
With our model I don't think that's a good business practice.
So although it may be a short-term gain on some landlords for us it's a bad business practice to do that over the long period of time.
And so we weren't willing to do that because we are long-term owners of the business.
Do you see any impact on your development yields from concessions and the like? No no I don't.
Next we'll hear from Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
I'm actually just going to just start with a quick easy one.
Mark you talked about possibly doing an unsecured bond deal.
Could you talk about the cost differential where that would have priced relative to doing the term loan? It was probably in the low 6s.
I mean there is obviously a couple of choices one was to do an add on to what we have the current bond is trading in that range.
And then the issue was how much do we want to get.
And the idea of taking out that term loan to do a standalone bond deal $200 million is probably the low number.
So at this point we were -- the lender group was willing to talk and the pricing made sense to us and the terms still goes out to the end of '14 so that's kind of the spread difference.
; Okay.
All right.
And then Hossein it's a kind of the same question that everybody's kind of getting around but for the types of topics that we've all been hitting on the build versus buy for larger tenants the supply out there whether it be from private equity or whomever else? And the fact that there's been some push-outs with regard to lease commencements has there been any change philosophically on how you guys think about building out spec space whether that comes in the form of how you underwrite it or what returns you guys seek? I think in fact if anything this has validated our philosophy on building these very larger builds.
These larger buildings the operating costs are significantly less than the 6- or 10-megawatt buildings.
And I think over it has proved that that for example our VA3 building the operating costs are around $40 a kilowatt when ACC which is a 30-megawatt building versus ACC6 or 5 was about $25 a kilowatt somewhat.
That does not include direct power or cooling.
So if anything it's validated that over the long term these larger assets will become much much more competitive.
And it's validated that having multi-tenant buildings with no -- with multiple lease expirations is really the long-term way to build this business.
Next we'll hear from Romeo Reyes with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Okay 2 quick ones here as well.
Can you talk about where you end up at the end of Q1 of next year in terms of cash based on your revolver availability your CapEx and also your cash flows? Could you give a sense how much cushion you have on the total liquidity though based on this spend that you have so far on SC1 ACC6 Phase 1 and then CH1 Phase 2? And then secondly with respect to kind of 2015 I guess that's when you have material -- the next big slug of expirations.
Does it make sense to start to negotiate now or is that -- when do you start to renegotiate those leases to push them out? Romeo this is Mark.
On question 1 it's really -- we said we'd be on the line about $40 million at the end of the year.
Obviously with cash free cash flow in each of the next -- in the 2012 quarters continues to go up on what we have.
Where we end up at the end of Q1 of '12 I'm not going to comment on 2012 yet but it's -- we're comfortably in that range at the end of the first quarter.
Inc.</strong> How much of the $535 million to $555 million would you have spent by the end of this year? I would say the bulk of that is being spent by the end of this year.
The retention on Chicago would be the only thing that probably sticks out there because we won't be able --  finishing the building until sometime in the first quarter.
So that retention typically is anywhere from $5 million to $10 million.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on the lease expiration? The second question was -- negotiations of leases typically go start anywhere from 12 to 15 months prior to the expiration.
And it's all about the companies' needs at that point.
So the idea of touching things that are in '15 '16 at this point probably don't make either party's radar screen.
Next we'll hear from Sri Nagarajan with FBR.
Question on the NJ1-NYSE connection.
Obviously in previous calls you had highlighted that you're focusing on enterprise tenants.
Is this a strategy to kind of throw your net wider here to attract more financial kind of firms here as well? Number one.
Number two what is the increase -- is there demand or traffic from that particular sector that you're seeing in that building there today? We see financial tenants us a subset of the enterprise market.
But we now believe we have a wider enterprise market because more financial firms will be interested in that data center because of the low-latency ability to connect.
Does that answer your question Sri? It does but just some sort of a [indiscernible] in terms of what we're hearing in the news in terms of an i/o data center or other firms attracting financial sector tenants through Mardy Latterdy [ph] et cetera lower price points perhaps.
Are you concerned that some of these tenants may indeed choose that option over what you're offering today? We think our product is extremely competitive and we think if anything financial tenants will want the higher-quality data centers that we provide rather than some of the container-type of data centers.
And that our redundancy levels and our cooling levels or the quality of the data centers in a permanent building rather than the container provides the security and reliability that most financial tenants want because of the sensitivity of the works they do.
So we think we're very well positioned to take on the those tenants.
Okay.
One question if I may.
I mean I think we have talked about it before in terms of obviously lower operating cost as the size of the building gets better but obviously the key point being flexibility and the concentration of tenant risk in leasing these assets up.
I mean obviously you did touch up on it in terms of a multi-tenant huge building.
But if the buildings were smaller perhaps then the concentration and the focus short-term focus will not be so heavy.
Would you agree? No not necessarily.
I think it's math right? If you've got 20 tenants in the building your multi -- our tenants our buildings are set up to have 20 rooms within the building and the rooms could be divided.
So we could potentially have 40 different tenants in the building.
But the CapEx goes out of the door on day 1 though right? That's the argument that I mean.
Yes.
Agreed agreed.
The initial -- we believe our buildings are initially lumpier to lease and take longer to lease than the single tenants.
But as a landlord and as the owner of the building long term I would prefer owning these assets that take longer to lease but when leased are extremely efficient rather than the one-at-a-time-type building as the landlord and long-term owner.
Next we'll hear from Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Have you guys spoken to Facebook yet regarding their recent announcement if they're going to be looking to end their leasing arrangements over time and move into owned facilities? All I can tell you is our leases with Facebook have 0 early out.
And I believe I said in our prepared remarks that our leases do not expire until 2018.
So for the foreseeable future it's really none of our concern.
And I can tell you all of our buildings are being totally utilized by them.
I think I've heard some of those rumors but most of them range around buildings where they're occupying a couple of megawatts at a time.
And in all our buildings they're  very large tenants.
Okay.
Mark on the capitalized interest in your guidance in the prior quarter you have been guiding to $23 million to $26 million in capitalized interest you're now guiding to $27 million to $29 million.
Can you help us get our arms around why that's increased? Because I'm struggling a bit because if all the projects are on time and on budget interest rates haven't gone up.
Why is the capitalized interest adjustment going up? Yes Ross.
I briefly mentioned it in the prepared remarks that it's really -- the initial guidance back in February focused on opening the doors at the beginning of the third quarter and we're opening the doors in kind of 1 and 2 months later inside the quarter.
They're on time and on budget.
We always said Q3 but 1 month or 2 of interest does make a difference.
And then secondly and maybe a little smaller amount is the spend by month sometimes we were funding a little quicker than we had initially thought.
We're still on the pace for the year but if we spend an additional $20 million at the beginning of a quarter that interest capitalized on that $20 million does add up over the course of time.
So it's really primarily a function of stopping capitalization in August for ACC6 and September for Santa Clara inside Q3.
Okay.
And I think finally I would just like to reiterate what I think Michael Bilerman suggested which is Hossein I understand that it might be bad business to disclose individual rents for your tenants given the number of tenants that you have.
But I would suggest that it might be worse business by not giving us a sense of where the lease is getting renewed on just simply because it makes it very difficult for your shareholders to underwrite the risk of the cash flows and that obviously then has capital markets implications for the whole business.
So I think speaking at least for the analyst community and I think for your shareholders I think getting the understanding of where these rents are coming in now versus where they were is frankly critical to understanding the company.
I think I've already commented on that.
And I'm not going to comment and answer exactly the same question again.
It's bad business practice long-term and therefore we're not going to disclose it.
[Operator Instructions] And next we'll hear from John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.</strong> Mark I was hoping you can help us bridge the gap on the $20 million reduction in top line revenue guidance.
I think you'd said that $3 million was basically due to spec revenue and I presume you're referring to lease commencements on development.
And then I think you'd said $7 million or sort of other revenue.
What exactly is that? Can you kind of walk us through the $20 million downward revision this quarter? Okay.
Well the midpoint dropped $10 million.
It was $300 million and the midpoint dropped to $290 million.
So we're really talking about $10 million in my mind.
The high end was always a function of if leasing was accelerated that we could get that high end because we were only opening some of these buildings in Q3.
So the high end was always focused on if we hit the high end.
So the midpoint of $290 million versus the midpoint of $300 million you break that out we had in the -- 2 buckets.
The other revenues bucket is nonrecurring  work that we do after a lease is signed inside a pod inside a room helping a tenant build [ph] out a room.
Typically we do that work at a cost plus 15% 20%.
So other income in essence dropped from a midpoint of $9 million down to $2 million a $7 million reduction.
Simultaneously other expenses will drop as well.
So on a EBITDA or FFO basis it's really only reduction of $9 million or $7 million at 20% $1.4 million.
And then the remaining $5 million that I had in there for spec revenue we've dropped that down to $2 million for Q4 with the gross commencements of leases.
For the --  I mean when I started the year the range was fairly wide and the range was wide because leasing is as we have phrased lumpy.
And that high end was with the goal of hitting some -- beating our leasing targets.
Obviously tightening it we still had room to hit the midpoint if other income would have hit the target of $10 million which was consistent with the year before.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Hossein I know -- I fully take your point that leasing is lumpy.
But when we take this communication today and specifically you're looking at higher capitalized interest so essentially a higher denominator basis and commencements being pushed out.
I know you said you feel better today about NJ1 than you did 90 days ago but in terms of the yields that you'll eventually achieve just by virtue of the math and the timing is that yield less attractive than it had been? I think I mean we have to wait until the data center is fully leased to tell you exactly.
But there was some cushion in some of our yields that we have.
We were somewhat conservative.
And I think NJ -- some of our data centers lease way faster with [indiscernible] things like Chicago.
And some of them may be a little bit slower than they think.
But all in all we feel that we will hit all our yields and our targets.
Inc.</strong> So you still feel good about '12 on NJ1? That's correct.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on the agreement with the New York Stock Exchange are you paying them a fee or a licensing agreement? What can you tell us about the nature of this agreement? We have I think we're on the MDAs with the New York Stock Exchange and cannot discuss that fact.
Next we'll hear from Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
Mark if I'm doing  my math correctly if the Yahoo! space stays vacant for a quarter it's $0.025.
Is that ballpark right? If we're thinking about the impact.
It's 3 million -- 3% annualized base rent for an annual basis.
It does -- if it would go dark April 30 we're talking 8 months next year.
Obviously we're looking to lease it up.
But the math that into percent maybe we can talk offline.
Okay.
I'm sorry I didn't catch that last comment that John was asking about the New York Stock Exchange.
Did you say that you couldn't discuss the deal there? We can't discuss it only because we're on the MDA.
Okay And then I guess the last question then would wind up being of the development projects that haven't started yet if you -- I know Mark said that you weren't going to start one in the back of this year but what's the next one in order on your mind at this point whether or not it's first quarter of '12 or sometime later in 2012? What's looking at this point of sort of be bubbling up to the top in terms of the most likely next start whenever you do start? I mean right now we're in 4 markets at the moment.
We don't anticipate the fifth market.
The projects that is -- and I wouldn't necessarily start -- have any starts in 2012 but if we were going to do something as a LAN acquisition or something like that it would probably be Chicago because we're so leased up of the Phase 2 that hasn't even been delivered.
Rob this is Mark.
It would be a function of the -- obviously all the Phase 2s we like to say was the low-hanging fruit.
So a Phase 2 -- if ACC6 leases we're building Phase 2.
If New Jersey leases we'll building Phase 2.
If Santa Clara leases we're building Phase 2.
So that is our strategy is  focus on these 4 markets.
Chicago obviously we like that market and the Phase 2 is already leasing up.
So that would be the lead on the comment of what Hossein just said.
Next we'll hear from Chris Lucas with Robert W.
Baird.
Just a couple of quick questions.
I guess Hossein could you just give us a quick sort of order of best to worst markets as you see them in right now the core markets that you're in? I think I would maybe divide it in 2 buckets.
I would first -- not necessarily 4 buckets because things change and how we feel about them.
Virginia and Chicago are 2 best markets.
Or I would say the #2 would be New Jersey and Santa Clara a #1 our best market would be Chicago and Virginia.
Okay.
And then just in terms of -- you talked about the activity being consistent the tours and all that.
I guess the question then becomes is the sales cycle elongating? And what are the issues that your potential customers are facing in terms their [indiscernible] commitment levels? I don't think -- I just think that -- don't forget we only do -- I think sales cycles and these type of comments are more in line with someone who does 50 leases a quarter.
We do a handful a quarter in the number of transactions that we do.
When you're only doing a number of transactions it doesn't really follow necessarily sales cycles.
It's too little data for us to tell you the sales cycle has changed.
It depends on individual-type companies and that type of thing.
And those handful are spread over 4 markets.
Right.
So you've got 4 markets you're marketing 4 buildings you've got tours going through regularly.
I guess the question is what is it that's creating a circumstance where tenants are unwilling at this point to make commitments on leases? I don't think tenants are unwilling.
I just think that as you go out fishing for big fish some days you come back with some very large fish some days you come back with a couple of small fish.
I don't think necessarily that we feel that the environment has changed.
Next we'll hear from Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I just wanted to follow up a little bit more generically on Northern Virginia.
Number one obviously you just classified that as one of the #1 markets or the better markets.
And I'm just curious as it relates to the expiring rent that we're seeing there.
Would you classify them generically as at-market or below-market or above-market? I think generically since they're expiring the less issues talking about it.
They're expiring probably at-market.
Okay.
And in terms of the activity you're classifying the market as one of the better markets but it seems like it's been a little while since we've -- outside of the renewal of course that we've seen new lease activity in Northern Virginia.
Now I know availability has been somewhat limited other than ACC6 but can you maybe just put a little flesh around that comment? I think our tours haven't changed.
Other than the building we haven't delivered we're potentially 100% leased.
The tenants I think we are essentially the largest supplied in the market that is delivering.
So we feel that Virginia has always been one of the best markets in the country and we don't necessarily think that's going to change over one quarter.
And in terms of requirements you're seeing in the market you're still seeing large requirements? Yes we've seen requirements have been -- yes...
[indiscernible] [indiscernible] because they seem competitive.
To quantify the demand is 37 megawatts the demand.
Would you sort of concur with that assessment? Are you seeing 37 megawatts of demand for Northern Virginia space? I think the demand is very large.
The number of deals we're tracking is in that type of ballpark.
But I would guess -- I think some of the demand is also in building shelves which we do not do.
So I do think the demand is very large.
I can tell you the deals that specifically there are some 2-megawatt deals we're tracking.
There's some 4-megawatt deals we're tracking.
There's some 0.5-megawatt deals tracking.
They're in that -- 1-megawatt deal we're tracking.
They're in that order of magnitude.
Next we'll hear from Jonathan Atkin RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I'm interested in Chicago and any impact the C&amp;E Group might be having? If there's non latency critical perhaps larger footprints applications that might arise for you as potential leads given what they're doing? And then in Santa Clara with the private equity -- that player substantially out of the markets there is another public player that's recently opened up space.
So I'm interested in kind of how you feel that will develop for SC1.
Well I think the public players will be more disciplined like us and not necessarily do fixed-power cost deals that won't long-term make sense.
And I think we've competed with them happily in the past and they're a worthy competitor.
We think very highly of them and we have no issues on -- we think that demand is good enough for both of us to play in the market in Santa Clara.
In Chicago I really don't know much about that player so I can't really comment on the C&amp;E Group.
But I could -- I mean all I can tell you is for us it is the on top with our best markets in the country.
And the our numbers show that itself that we're delivering a best thing that is 18.2 megawatts and 9.2 megawatts of it is fully leased.
The magnitude of that is absolutely enormous.
It's like a 1.5-type eConnect buildings or whole eConnect building being fully committed even before it starts.
So it is a terrific market for us.
We'll take a follow-up from Sri Nagarajan with FBR.
I mean in light of that obviously you also -- in the press there was also news about a light fiber linear connection there.
So I was wondering if you could shed some light on how that might attract someone who is presumably located in Chicago as well.
I think we're always trying to get as many networks within our buildings as we can.
And we're very very proud of all the networks that's located in our building.
To some of our tenants the lease connections -- depending on the application some of the smaller tenants are very very important.
Some of the largest tenants that bring in their own dark fibers into the building it is not as critical to their applications.
But with -- as far as the smaller tenants are concerned the more connections there are the merrier.
That's helpful.
I know it's a long ways out but 3Q '15 the Yahoo! lease what percentage of the critical load Yahoo!'s critical load is it? And what percentage of the revenues is that? Could you disclose that? Well we said it was -- the current one was around 19% of critical load.
The ones in '15 we're not going to get specific about that.
Obviously it's a good ways out.
But it's -- I don't have that handy Sri.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'll turn things back over for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today.
Thank you for listening to the call.
And that does conclude today's teleconference.
Thank you all for joining.
Good day and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Technology Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager of DuPont Fabros.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's Third Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this call -- conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued last night which is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be limited to 2 per caller.
If you have additional questions please feel free to return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our third quarter 2011 earnings call.
As noted in last night's press release we continued to deliver solid quarterly financial results which Mark will discuss later in the call.
Since leasing is our primary focus and catalyst for growth I would like to begin with the leasing update.
Since the beginning of the first quarter to date we have executed 5 leases totaling 6.7 megawatts of critical load.
We have signed 3 leases within the third quarter totaling 5 megawatts.
One lease is for 570 kilowatts in Phase I of New Jersey and is with a new social media tenant.
The second lease is for 540 kilowatts in Phase I of ACC6 and is with an existing Internet tenant.
The third is a pre-lease for 3.9 megawatts.
This pre-lease is with an existing tenant in our Chicago facility.
To date we have pre-leased 71% of Phase II of Chicago expect to achieve a 12% unlevered return.
We have no secured debt on the facility.
Currently Chicago is the market that is leasing up the fastest.
Our data center provides tenants who need to be in the Midwest with an optimal and scalable solution to their requirements while being able to serve a vast geographical area.
Subsequent to the third quarter we signed 2 leases at New Jersey totaling 1.7 megawatts.
1 lease is for 1 140 kilowatts and is with a new cloud hosting tenant.
The second lease is for 570 kilowatts that is with a new financial services tenant.
These new leases bring New Jersey to 34% leased; ACC6 8% leased; Chicago Phase II 71% pre-leased; and Santa Clara remains at 13% leased.
Since the beginning of the year we have executed 13 new leases totaling 23.6 megawatts of available critical load with an average lease term of 7.9 years.
To date we have leased more megawatts in 2011 than we did in all of 2010.
Our sales and leasing teams have been working diligently to establish new relationships with perspective tenants particularly in New Jersey and Santa Clara area.
We continue to nurture and expand upon existing relationships in Ashburn and Chicago.
We're tracking reasonable demand in each of these market as evidenced by the amount of tours and interest by perspective tenants.
On October 1 we delivered SC1 in Santa Clara.
The majority of the available data center states in this market is within SC1.
Tenants are drawn to Santa Clara because of the reduced power cost Silicon Valley Power provides when compared to the surrounding areas.
We remain confident with the demand in this market and believe in the long run we're in excellent position to capitalize on it.
Due to some recent activity within Santa Clara market we're seeing slightly lower rents within the range of 10% to 12% unlevered return in Santa Clara.
We have no secured debt on this facility.
Back to Northern Virginia we delivered ACC6 on September 1.
Ashburn Corporate Campus allows for tenants within the existing building to organically grow into the newly delivered building.
We can do this without duplicating any personnel enabling cost savings for our tenants.
We're seeing our current tenants demand grow and we are also seeing new tenants come to the market.
We expect to achieve a 15% unlevered return on this asset.
Wholesale data center outsourcing remains a logical and cost effective solution from those companies.
Having just-in-time inventory enables a company to better plan for their data center requirements.
It also optimizes the company's available capital.
We look to provide our tenants with the most reliable scalable and cost efficient computing environment in the industry.
We believe there is sufficient demand in all 4 markets to absorb our inventory.
We have an outstanding track record of leasing available space and we're confident in our ability to lease the space we have.
Our year-end leasing targets remain obtainable but we are focused on our 100% lease up target.
We continue to expect to fully lease up New Jersey by the end of 2012 and both Santa Clara and ACC6 within 18 months of opening.
In summary we continue to make good progress -- leasing our biggest -- leasing is our biggest opportunity to produce cash flow and realize value.
This continues to be everyone's relentless focus.
Now I will turn the call over to Mark who will take you through our financial results.
Thank you Hossein.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I want to cover 3 main topics today: our third quarter results; balance sheet update; and the 2011 guidance update.
As for our third quarter results for 2011 the company's FFO was $0.44 per share compared to $0.37 per share in the third quarter of 2010 an increase of 19%.
The result is primarily from increased operating income from new lease commencements.
Quarterly revenues were $73.8 million our highest ever.
This increase of $13.5 million 22% over the third quarter of 2010.
Leases commenced Q3 towards the end of the quarter and we already have commenced 2 leases in Q4 so you will see additional revenue growth in Q4.
FFO was $0.37 per share in the third quarter compared to $0.28 per share for the third quarter of 2010 an increase of 32%.
AFFO continues to increase faster sequentially than FFO to ramp periods on new leases burn-off.
AFFO was up $6.1 million or 25% quarter-over-quarter sequentially.
Cash rents and lower interest expense drove these increases.
Year-to-date revenues increased 21% from $177 million to $213 million.
FFO per share for the same period increased 24%.
The only remaining development currently in progress is Chicago Phase II.
We anticipate using our cash on hand and a portion of the hundred million revolving line of credit to fund this development through completion.
As of today there are no borrowings against the line.
As for our cash CapEx development spend for the remainder of the year we plan to spend approximately $55 million in Q4.
Total spend for the year will be approximately $370 million.
We continue to closely watch the capital markets relating to our next capital event.
We will not start another development until leasing catches up.
$75 million capital raised discussed in the last call remains an option but not a requirement.
As of today we may wait to raise additional capital into early 2012.
At this point we would use the majority of any such proceeds to simply pay down the expected line of credit balance we used to complete our Chicago development with any remainder for general corporate purposes.
We will continue to keep our leverage low and expect to improve on key debt covenants.
In summary our balance sheet is in great shape.
Our FFO guidance range for the fourth quarter of 2011 is $0.35 to $0.37 per share.
As noted in our press release FFO's projected to dip $0.08 per share sequentially.
This results from an additional interest expensed to stop capitalization of interest on both ACC6 and SC1 toward the end of the third quarter.
Our full-year FFO guidance midpoint remains unchanged at $1.60 per share which represents a 20% increase over 2010.
Details of our 2011 guidance can be found on Page 15 of our press release.
We will provide our 2012 revenue and FFO guidance on the year-end earnings call which will take place in early February.
In September Moody's raised our corporate and senior unsecured bond credit ratings from Ba2 to Ba1 and raised our preferreds from Ba3 to Ba2.
Key components for us achieving investment grade remains diversification both geographically and tenant concentration.
This will happen over time and remains a strategic goal for us.
We believe our solid balance sheet and financial condition give us great flexibility which will enable us to continue to grow the company in a prudent and consistent way for the benefit of our shareholders.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
Before we open up for questions let me offer a few final comments.
Last week it was announced that the company co-founder Lammot du Pont stepped down as Executive Chairman.
He will remain as Chairman of the company's Board of Directors.
We are grateful for his leadership and all that he's contributed for DFT and look forward to his continued involvement as our Chairman.
Our focus remains on leasing as we believe it's the key to the -- to increasing shareholder value.
We continue to see demands in all of our markets.
Which we believe can absorb our current inventory.
We will complete Phase II of Chicago on time and on budget and we'll be deliberate in starting any new development.
We know we have a lot of work in front of us but are confident in our ability to lease our available inventory within the timelines provided.
With that we'll be happy to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll first go to Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just follow up on a couple things as it relates to sort of lease up demand and timing.
I noticed in your prepared remarks and in the press release you characterized demand as reasonable in all of your markets rather than previous quarters you've talked about it as being good.
I'm curious if that's a purposeful downgrade in terms of the demand outlook or feeling condition today.
And maybe just some commentary as to why you think ACC6 and Santa Clara even though they're only recently opened why the pace at those assets seems to be a little bit slower maybe at the margin relative to at least the interim targets you laid out for year-end? As far as -- I want to first address -- yes I am worried little bit about the macro-world environment.
In that sense we wanted to change it to reasonable.
Data centers are still probably one sector in real estate that's frankly growing at a -- one of the sectors that's fastest growing because the demand is generally driven by the Internet.
I want to be tempered because I'm worried about the world around us.
As it relates to Santa Clara and Northern Virginia I think they're 2 different markets.
Northern Virginia continues to be our best market.
Leasing has always been lumpy and will continue to be lumpy but we are working on a handful of very large deals for ACC6 and probably 2 handfuls of smaller deals on ACC6.
So I have 0 concerns with ACC6 as it relates to leasing.
In Santa Clara we did lower slightly our rental assumptions because like I've said before there are a couple of private players on the market that I felt had done deals that we wouldn't want to do.
I wanted to be tempered with our rental rates in that market.
Our year -- our fully leased up targets which is 18 months from opening are still achievable in that market.
Now ACC6 will probably be faster than our original targets meaning our fully-leased targets.
Research Division</strong> And just -- if you could just characterize the demand similar to the way you did on ACC6 you said a handful of larger deals 2 handles of smaller deals maybe just a similar type of color around SC1.
SC1 I would say there are a handful of smaller deals and 1 or 2 like 2 megawatt-type deals that we're looking at.
So it's not -- we believe that ACC6 will outperform our 100% lease up targets and Santa Clara will perform as we expected.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up the -- so sort of given this context that we're all immediately focused on the lease up of these developed and recently completed assets.
But just -- maybe just give us a little bit more of a strategic view of DFT 2 to 3 years out from now.
Mark touched on not launching new development until you're further along in the leasing.
Just trying to get some context in terms of [indiscernible] to you.
Sure.
Research Division</strong> And then really your plan for the company beyond the lease up of these 4 assets.
Well I think our long-term is extremely bullish because don't forget I've always maintained the Phase I of these assets is the most difficult phases to lease up.
Once the Phase I has leased up our Phase II generally have an embedded tenant base that have more -- that have a organic growth and more demand built up -- pent-up demand because the Phase IIs are there.
It just so happens just like Chicago right now we're delivering the Phase IIs are currently 71% pre-leased.
Now in 3 year's time we'll have Phase IIs of 3 other assets at least to be developed.
Now depending on pre-leasing I'm generally much more bullish on the Phase IIs than I am on the Phase Is.
But once the Phase Is are committed or we feel pretty much close to committed we'll develop the Phase IIs of these assets which will have a -- typically a faster lease uptake and less risk involved.
Then next up Brendan Maiorana with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a question just in terms of how you think the lease up pace will likely materialize into actual occupancy? Because if you look at the expectations for next year to get New Jersey done by the end of the year in terms of leased and I guess you kind of have the same expectations for SC1 and ACC6 as well.
How do you think that -- do you think there is likely to be more of a delay in terms of taking occupancy versus leased rates similar to what you have at CH1 with the tenant that -- the 20% of the space but isn't going to be in until kind of Q3 or Q4 of next year and then early 2013? I think it typically will be similar to CH1 in that when we lease up a space typically the tenants take about 1 year to absorb -- 1 year to sometimes 18 months to absorb the space they have.
Now depending on accounting we may straight line that GAAP income the first we will straighten the line -- that GAAP income on these commencements.
But typically they have a ramp of about a year.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I mean there's a ramp of a year and you've got a significant amount of leasing that you're expecting to get done in both Q4 of this year through the 4 quarters of next year.
If I kind of compare that to what you've got in terms of your Q4 '11 expectations of a midpoint of $0.36 a share -- $0.35 to $0.37 annualized at somewhere call it $1.40 to $1.50.
And then you've got a capital raise starting in next year it seems like kind of to get up to where a lot of folks are expecting the run rate for next year you've got to do a fair amount of leasing to kind of bridge that gap is that sort of a fair assessment big picture as we look out to next year? Yes Brendan.
If we -- it is -- plus it's a function of development.
If leasing goes as we think it will in certain markets the Phase II will be on the table.
We'll talk about 2012 in February but it's a Catch-22 between we're not going to just start development just so we can just capitalize on interest were going to match it up with demand in the marketplace and be prudent about where go Phase IIs.
So if you just think of FFO interest capitalization does affect it next year but in terms of where EBITDA's going and where we're taking this company from a cash-returns perspective we're doing everything right.
So the Phase II's developments will be a function of how leasing goes and if we have -- you do the math on the quote available inventory.
And if we average 6 7 8 megawatts a quarter it depends on how -- when those hit.
If it happens early in the year we will be starting Phase II developments.
If it happens later in the year we'll delay it.
We'll go next to Dave Rogers with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mark can you give little bit of color specifically on the GAAP perspective leasing that you got at Chicago Phase II.
And just given what you've said it looks like you got a pretty wide range of estimates out there for 2012.
I think a lot of that relates to when the GAAP commencements will actually occur for Chicago.
So will you start most of that pre-leasing as of the completion of that asset? Or can you give us some color on the specifics there? Yes assuming we open the doors in the middle of Q1 I believe 50% of that commences immediately.
The 17 [ph]  -- the remaining 21% that we just signed we laid out in the press release window that leasings commences.
50% of building commences on day one of opening.
LLC Research Division</strong> And what was your target for pre-leasing on the day of opening? Did you expect a number there? Well I think we assumed 25% or something on a...
Well we put a shovel on the ground at 30% so we didn't really -- I mean we're way ahead of where we thought we'd be from the pre-leasing of Chicago.
And again primarily because of the Phase II asset.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And with respect to either new markets or new starts maybe Chicago comes to mind as well where you could use more land in advance of any other starts that you're talking about putting a shovel on the ground should we expect to see you a little bit more aggressive in the next 6 months looking for additional either new markets or land purchases? Well I think David we have an enormous amount of growth ahead of us in our current leasing.
Now having said that Chicago is one market that yes we are looking but we were going to be careful about when we start that.
We don't want to leave our tenants without anywhere to go in Chicago.
So I think we will need to get something going in Chicago but everywhere else I think that unless we've got big amount of pre-leasing we're not going to put a shovel in the ground.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question any back filling on the executive ranks? Or do you -- should we expect to see any hires or any impact to G&amp;A going forward given the Lammont announcement? No.
We'll go next to Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
Can you guys give us an update on the Secure Financial Transaction access center at NJ1 and talk about maybe the terms there and how much of a factor that may have been with the financial services tenant that you signed there? We think long-term having the feisty note [ph] of the New York Stock Exchange it's a definite positive -- the data center.
One of our tenants in place will be using that facility and we expect that some of the tenants that are not in the building also are interested in it some of the people that we're talking to.
That was really something that adds value to the building and we expect more and more tenants will start using it.
But I can't really put a number on it.
Okay and what was -- I mean what did you guys have to pay to get that? I don't think we've disclosed that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you guys talk about how you're approaching today the lease up of ACC6 versus the upcoming vacancy at VA3? I mean you talked previously different types of tenants there.
Are you seeing more interest in one over the other at this point? No.
I mean it's like having 2 children.
I don't really have a favorite between them.
It's a -- no the reason is one is very different to the other.
One is a low density type of building that will really be best suited to a different type of tenant than the high-density space.
But I think they will both lease up well in the past we have always leased VA3 very well and we do see once in a while a tenant of ACC6 that cannot use 200 watts of square foot if you have any lower-density space then we always point them towards VA3.
So I feel very good about Virginia it remains the best market in the country and we're the dominant player there.
So we expect to do well in both of them.
Okay.
And last quarter you guys had talked about being 40% back filled there by the time that the tenant moved out.
Are you still feeling comfortable with that today? I think it's a -- that was -- where we hope to I'd say we're -- sitting here today...
I think it's still very possible it depends on where we want to move some tenants.
Some tenants between ACC6 and the VA3 and we just have one tenant who was interested in taking some space there now and we asked one tenant whether they would move out earlier.
So some of these assumptions we do are just simply lines in the sand.
If the space was available now I think we could put someone in certainly in 25% of it immediately.
So it depends I feel -- I still feel that's a reasonable assumption that I want to be...
We'll talk further in February about that.
Yes.
The next is Ross Nussbaum with UBS.
Research Division</strong> On Santa Clara the 10% to 12% range you talked about in terms of unlevered returns that's still a reasonably wide range considering the asset is completed.
So you know what the construction costs are so what's the variable there in terms of the low end and the high end in achieving those returns? Well I think I did discuss a little bit earlier in the -- and on the last call I mentioned that there is 1 or 2 private players that are in that market that I think have done deals where us public players would not do.
And to me those deals didn't make sense.
And where those deals come in they were lower than what we expected rent to be.
Now the majority of those spaces have now been leased up.
So whether the rents will ratch up where we expect them to be or remain lower I'm uncertain of.
That's why I wanted to be tempered in our assumptions.
And Ross the range can fluctuate between somebody taking down 6 8 megawatts versus somebody taking down 1 or 2 depending who the tenant is and the growth story around them.
So I guess what we're saying is we're not looking to lose a deal out there in terms of what we see out there.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I'm understanding.
So the low end of the range would assume that these deals that were done by one of these private competitors effectively those rents remain sort of steady in the market.
The high end of the range assumes that rents perhaps are now back up to where they were? Now back to where they were.
Yes.
That's a fair way of it -- that's a fair way putting it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On New Jersey can you give us a sense of where the recent leases are from a rent-per-kilowatt perspective as opposed to the ones you that had signed late last year and early this year? They're about the same.
They're about the same and we still expect to reach a 12% unlevered return.
So rents really have not changed on the 2 3 recent deals that we've done.
And every tenant has a lease term a credit standpoint.
Some credit is better some leases are longer-term but from a perspective of how we feel rents are in that market we feel it's really unchanged and more and more people and tenants are realizing the quality of our asset is far superior to anything else in the market.
And once they come and see us and tour us in these type of data centers seeing is believing and once they bring their engineers through they feel more and more confident that it's the best product in that market.
Research Division</strong> Do you get any questions from tenants around the topic of density? And do they say "Hey I get the rent-per-kilowatt makes sense but the rent-per-square foot looks a little high relative to others?" How do...
We -- that's a question we've dealt with from day one but frankly when you point them to the feeling and say "Why don't you go to an 8-foot rack? Why don't you go to a 9-foot rack?" If they say "Oh you can cool that?" And we say "Absolutely we can cool that.
The building is designed for that.
Let me show you 5 other tenants that are using 8-foot and 9-foot rack.
What you care about is the amount of power not necessarily the amount density." So as we talked them through the density we have less and less resistance.
We'll go next to Chris Lucas with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Mark could you provide some color on the backlog as of the third quarter in terms of megawatts.
In other words what's the amount of leased space versus what has commenced off of those leases.
What do you have left that's out there? As of today all the leases that we have are commenced including the lease in Santa Clara including the couple of leases we just signed in New Jersey.
And so the only thing that has not commenced is out in Chicago.
50% of which will lease -- will commence as of the day we open the building and the remaining 21% commence as I disclosed in the press release.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then in terms of New Jersey Hossein if you could you had previously guided to I think to be at 50% I think by year-end.
You're at 34% how comfortable are you at this point in terms of getting to your end goal? I mean those assumptions of year-end were simply the midpoint of where we think the leasing will be on the -- it was a straight line and we looked at where we were going to be 100% and then prorated it to where we're going to be on a straight line basis year-end.
Now absolutely some markets were going to be at way ahead of that.
Some markets may slightly lag although I do think as I said in my prepared remarks that all the year-end -- previously stated year-end assumptions are possible very likely that we'll be way ahead on a couple and maybe lagging on 1 or 2 because there were simply lines in the sand.
But we are very confident on our 100% leasing assumptions.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then -- and quickly just -- it appears to me it sounds like from last quarter to this quarter there has been a greater divergence in terms of how you're think about the market.
Is that a fair assessment? It's a little bit on Santa Clara as I'm thinking about it.
But generally I am a little bit about worried more about the macro world market.
Now previously that has not necessarily affected data centers because they continued to grow.
But I'm worried about some of the decision-making based on what's happening in the world so I want to be tempered.
But having said that typically we've also seen that in the past when our biggest competitors in the world of data centers is tenants doing it themselves.
It's not necessarily the other reason [ph].
And in a world that is uncertain we also see many tenants decide to outsource rather than doing it themselves.
So I may be wrong and it may have a positive impact on us.
We'll go next to Michael Bilerman with Citi.
It's Manny here with Michael.
Hossein maybe you can give us some anecdotal examples or evidence of tenants or potential tenants that have come through and made commitments but you don't have anything out in pre-lease form or even LOI form that you think will help you hit those year-end targets.
Like I said the -- we are working on a number of tenants in the Virginia market a handful of very large and maybe 2 handfuls of smaller tenants.
But depending on both we could very well exceed in Virginia where we are staking [ph].
But having said that I'm much more now focused on leasing up the entire building rather than just trying to hit what I've described in the past as a line in the sand in 2 months.
I mean what's the hesitation on the tenants' part from signing those leases? Is it just they're not ready today and it'll be ready next week? Or is there some broader issue at hand? No Manny this is Mark.
The -- I mean the inventory's available obviously so it's not that.
The decision-making internally at some of the companies it takes longer than maybe it has in the past.
So...
But again I want to be -- the original estimates we gave you were simply a straight line -- in a straight line estimate of where we thought we would be 100% leased.
There was no magic assumption to those year-end assumptions.
And the key point Manny is that we from an FFO perspective we are exactly where we were we said we're going to be at the beginning of the year.
So we didn't have a lot of EBITDA or FFO in terms of the new leases started.
It was just that as the run rate of '12 would look to give you a little bit of color where we're going? So whether we hit those in the next 60 days is -- we're working hard on it.
And also don't forget that we've leased more megawatts in the last year until now than we did all of last year the entire year.
Research Division</strong> Mark what's -- this is Michael Bilerman speaking.
In terms of the cap interest at 27 or 29 for the year that implies $3 million to $5 million for the fourth quarter? And I'm just curious I guess when you look at the only project that I guess you're going to be capping in the fourth quarter will be Chicago which is $160 million.
You got $30 million to $40 million left to spend.
So how should we think about -- because that's pretty wide range for cap interest if it's just that one project.
So what's going on in terms of that forecast and how should we think about things moving around for the fourth quarter? It is to clarify it is just the 1 project.
It is a function of -- we do it monthly based on the draws that we fund the development.
So as we hit each calendar month we capitalize interest on what's been expended not on this total projected.
So it moves around based on when things are completed inside that building.
Research Division</strong> You're capping at your 7.4% average rate or are you capping at a different rate? Specific to -- some of the assets was specific to the bond debt at 8.5% and -- but I think Chicago is the average that one.
Research Division</strong> So if it's at $5 million if you annualize at it at -- you're talking about $270 million of the cap balance which just exceeds the construction cost right? If you just take $5 million annualize it and then 7.4% rate you get to $270 million? It is but the money expended at Chicago at the average rate for 1 month.
So if the math is -- I still think we're inside the range that I had projected on the last page.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess when you look towards next year obviously there is -- it's not just Chicago that's a moving piece but Santa Clara leasing up ACC6 leasing up and where you get to on New Jersey all will greatly impact FFO and the ramp depending on when those leases hit.
And so you've been pretty specific on Chicago in terms of opening 50% in the first quarter.
And then assuming no other leasing you get to 57% in the third quarter 64% by the fourth quarter and then 71% by 1Q '13.
And then any other leasing that you do between now and then that takes up space would be additive to FFO I guess how should we think about the NOI impact for the other projects as we start to wrap our heads around what FFO and the trend line is heading into next year? I think we'll talk in detail in February with regards to 2012.
It's absolutely a leased up story for us as we think about quarterly sequential growth at the FFO line.
And then whether we start a new development or we not affects that number because we do have a very conservative capitalization policy.
So it's hard to sit here today and say sequentially quarter-by-quarter we are hustling to lease and nothing will change.
The next question comes from Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
Santa Clara again just going back to this new 10% to 12% development yield.
Again the sense I got from that market again the private guys are really progressive in the third quarter but based on them being really aggressive they've pretty much leased up their space.
So I'm just kind of curious why you may end up in a world where rates will remain as low as those guys were offering in third quarter and things then kind of bounce back towards where market pricing was before that? Well I think you're right they seem to be leased up.
But if it does bounce back and I answered it I think when Rob asked it'll be at 12.
If it doesn't bounce back it'll be at 10.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I think I won't -- yes but I think at one point when we're talking about that asset giving you more like 12% to 14% or 12% to 15% type yields? No.
No we've always maintained 12% on that asset.
And Virginia is the one that we thought...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I'm sorry.
Yes.
Okay that's helpful.
And then New Jersey again it's -- you guys have done some additional leasing.
We had pretty bullish commentary from one of your competitors about New Jersey but yet you still have this backdrop of a lot of the leasing expected from financial service companies who all seem to be pulling back.
So I guess I'm just trying to understand why your competitor as well as yourself sounds cautiously optimistic about that market but everything we see in regards to who your demand should be coming from they all seem to kind of be pulling back somewhat.
I think New Jersey is coming along.
I mean we've -- we seem to be doing -- it's incremental we have some incremental leasing that's good.
And don't forget what we have is we put on the market 18.2 megawatts.
Our competitors may put on the market 2 megawatts.
So the business model we have which I like as a building owner is where once the buildings are leased up they are so efficient that it's tough to compete for that building.
But to -- but it does take 2 years to lease up these massive buildings.
So that's a different business strategy as a long-term owner of the building I think it's the right decision for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I guess I was just referring to one of your competitors saying they're now tracking 42 megawatts of demand in that market versus 24 megawatts of power last quarter where the sudden jump is coming from? I can't comment on where they see.
I just see it as a good solid market and we're still tracking plenty of tours and plenty of interest people coming through the building and seeing what a great asset it is.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly I guess it seems there's a lot of buzz nowadays about built-to-suit opportunities out there.
Is that a business that you could see yourselves getting more involved in? And are you looking at those kind of opportunities? We certainly are but the more what we see potentially doing is talking to some of our relationships to build an 18-megawatt building whereby we would lease 8 to 10 megawatts of it already and whereby the operating expenses of the building for everyone would ratch down when the entire building is leased.
That kind of replicating our model maybe somewhere else.
But that would be the opportunity but we're not ready to announce anything.
We'll go next to Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> So the first thing I was hoping that you might give us some color on Hossein is the competitive dynamic from market to market as we look at the West Coast.
Clearly Jim has created some competition for you in the Santa Clara area over the last few months.
But now as we look at potentially choosing other markets outside of San Francisco versus your Santa Clara how competitive is it across geography there? And I guess in particular I was surprised to see Net2EZ sign a deal with DLR? I think Net2EZ in L.A.
have always signed with DLR.
That's not a new lease for them.
They have a long-standing relationship and if they will need space in L.A we certainly don't have any space and I think DLR is a good product out there.
So that's nothing new.
The -- I think on market-to-market I would say Virginia and Chicago remain our best 2 markets.
Then I would rank the New Jersey as our third and the fourth best market would be California or Santa Clara.
And on Santa Clara I feel that it is a long-term Silicon Valley so there will always be tenants out there but I certainly feel that some of the deals that were done are deals that we're not willing to do and the other public players are not willing to do.
And we will simply wait until they're leased up and it sounds like they are going to be and I'm also -- we're not willing to go to some of the extent and I'm happy to talk to you offline of where some of the concessions those guys are willing to give.
And I'm certainly not sure about what their exit strategy is going to be because I'm not interested in buying those buildings.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I'll follow up offline on that.
In terms of the renewal you had a fairly large renewal in the quarter.
Can you give us some color around that? I think the renewal that you had in Q2 was one of those leases that was above market and so probably came into market.
Is there any incremental color on the lease renewal for the third quarter? We have NDAs with all of our tenants and most people in the industry do.
And because we have such few leases those renewals could be tracked back to which tenants we're talking about.
And so we're really not at liberty to break our NDAs and give specifics on those.
And Jonathan that's the same renewal we talked about on the last call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
All right a little confusion there.
Hossein did you give the average remaining lease life across your -- across the footprint at this point? I think I want to say it's 7.9 but Mark please correct me.
Yes it was 7.9 for the leases signed this year I think for the whole portfolio it's like 6.9.
We'll go next to Sloan Bohlen with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just got a quick one just not to pile on on the competition question.
But out in California with the deals that private guys are doing that you aren't.
Can you talk maybe a little bit more about why you think they can offer lower rates whether it's their bases whether they're expecting lower returns and maybe kind of quantify that gap and whether that gap is widening or narrowing? And maybe just add a little bit of color there? I really can't give you color why they're doing it.
That's really not for me to say.
Research Division</strong> I mean it's an important question though right? If rates in your markets are falling a little bit maybe just offer a little bit of comfort around where you think those rates could go prospectively.
Well I think this -- from a space standpoint we see that space now leased up.
So the only question I have right now is whether they remain as is or if they will move back up again.
And that's the question that's been asked a couple of times on the call and I don't know the answer to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you feel like that's a situation that was pretty much isolated to California at this point? Or do you feel like private equity players or other private players might look to build in other of your markets? At the moment I would say it's absolutely isolated to California.
We haven't seen it anywhere else so I can't comment on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question.
You guys talked about levels of pre-leasing for new developments.
Can you maybe put a number on what that would be to go ahead with a new project? Well it depends on the location.
Like in some locations for example where -- if it was a new location not in the 4 markets we're at we will want to be significantly pre-leased meaning call it out of 18 megawatts 6 to 10 megawatts pre-leased.
On the current locations we have less of a need especially if it's phase 2 asset because we have an embedded tenant base that we are confident that we would grow into it.
We'll go next to Phil Wilhelm with UBS O'Connor.
Two questions.
The first one given the commentary you provided earlier it seems as if your initial yield expectations for your developments remains similar to your original underwriting and it's more or less just the timing aspect that's perhaps changed.
That's question 1 and then just as a follow up if true there should be $70 million-plus of incremental NOI coming from your pipeline.
And is that -- does that sound like it's right -- in the right ballpark provided that you hit your...
Well let me answer the first part and I'll wait for Mark to answer the second part.
From a return standpoint even from a timing standpoint from 100% lease up we have not really changed our assumptions when we're going to be 100% leased.
Where we're going to be 50% leased on some projects we're going to be ahead some projects we may lag slightly and then maybe catch up at the end.
So our final lease up is we remain confident that we're going to hit those targets.
And then Mark I'll turn it over to you for the second part.
Yes.
In terms of -- so if we lease up everything we have from an inventory perspective your number's not far-off in terms of -- it's just a question of when we get there.
And we can get there with no new debt and no new capital raise which is a beautiful thing.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Two clarification points did you say where the demand was coming from in terms of -- in Northern Virginia is it the bigger tenants you're seeing from within the existing park? Or are there some new tenants kicking around? I think both Jordan we're talking to a couple of existing tenants interested in expanding and also a couple of -- from the larger tenants and a couple of new tenants that we have not done deals with that are looking.
And then similar to the smaller tenants probably the first handful would be newer tenants and then there's a handful of older tenants.
And as I said we have already done deals with in the park.
Research Division</strong> Across the portfolio and in North Virginia tenants -- is it fair to say that there just aren't as many -- you're not seeing as many larger tenants in the market new larger tenants? Well I would say in Chicago and Virginia we are seeing larger tenants.
In...
Research Division</strong> New to the portfolio? Yes new to the portfolio.
We are seeing larger tenants in Chicago and in Virginia new to the portfolio.
On the -- in Santa Clara -- and my definition of large would be maybe say 4 megawatts and bigger? The -- in Santa Clara and New Jersey we're generally dealing with smaller-sized tenants which are like 500 kilowatts to 2 megawatts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Mark just on the debt deal I know you touched on it.
Are you saying that's still embedded in the sort of midpoint being affirmed here in the range of $1.59 to a $1.61 you still have $75 million debt deal in those numbers.
No.
I mean we -- I always had that debt deal late in Q4 basically the month of December.
And now I don't have it in there.
We'll go next to Young Ku with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for Mark.
Your in-place based gap rents went down $3 million sequentially.
Is that just merely driven by your Yahoo! lease? Or what else is going on there? And that's a primary thing the Yahoo! lease that expired -- it will expire.
We go next to Chris Lucas with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
Just in terms of thinking about the future development starts.
Is it fair to assume that you're more comfortable in a market that you have already density.
So Ashburn would be an easier market for you to get comfortable with in terms of not only the Phase II part but just in general thinking about future assets.
But as I'm thinking about sort of the risk in your profile isn't it sort of heading down in the sense that you're -- you've got 3 projects that are Phase I and then going forward those 3 will be moving to Phase II.
So how should we be thinking about the hurdles to get to new starts? I think you're absolutely right and I wish I had been more clear on that on my prepared remarks.
What I was trying to get to and again I tried to answer it earlier on the call is yes now is the time of higher risk in the portfolio because we're leasing Phase I.
And yes the Phase II we have significantly less risk and yes our next phases of expansion again will be in the current -- I mean unless we've got significant pre-leasing our next phases of expansion will again be -- will be in the 4 markets that we're established in.
So yes again the -- we feel that down the road our risks on the new expansions will be significantly less.
And we'll go next to Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Mark you talked in your prepared remarks about not initiating on any new phase deployments so new construction until you saw maybe an improvement in some of the lease up trends.
I was just trying to get a sense of that comment in the context of kind of where your plans were maybe a year ago? So are you delaying construction is I guess my question or is it just that you're continually evaluating? Well I think it's a continual evaluation.
The phase -- we've said historically that we'd like to start 2 phases a year.
And that still could happen depending on lease up.
But as Chris just alluded to the risk profile is with Phase Is are right in front of us and we're going to deal with it first.
The Phase IIs -- we have 49 megawatts of Phase IIs sitting on the table we can bring those to market in a 7 to 9 month window if we need to.
And so the idea of starting those in 2012 is absolutely right in front of us.
We would like to do that but we're going to do it in a prudent fashion.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Thank you for joining us today.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Welcome to DuPont Fabros Technology's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager for the company.
Mr.
Warnke you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's fourth quarter 2011 results conference call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued last night which is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be limited to 2 per caller.
If you have additional questions please feel free to return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter 2011 earnings call.
As noted in last night's press release we again delivered solid quarterly and full year financial results for 2011 which Mark will discuss later in the call.
2011 was our fourth year as a public company.
We are proud of our accomplishments none of which could have been achieved without the hard work of our excellent team of employees.
I thank each one of you for your valued contributions.
Leasing is our primary focus so I would like to begin with an update.
We placed into service 86-megawatts of critical load within the last 15 months.
We have leased just over half of it.
We are confident that we'll be successful in leasing the other half.
For the full year 2011 we signed 14 new leases totaling 25 megawatts of available critical load with a contract value of over $425 million.
This compares to 23 megawatts in 2010 and 37 megawatts in 2009.
During the fourth quarter we signed 3 leases totaling 3 megawatts of available critical load.
Two leases were in New Jersey which were previously discussed on the last call.
The third lease is a new lease in Chicago with a new health care tenant.
So far in the first quarter we signed 1 lease in Santa Clara for 2.28 megawatts.
This lease commenced in the first quarter.
This building is now 25% leased.
On a macro level we remain comfortable with the fundamentals and industry trends for future data center space.
The amount of data stored and processed worldwide continues to double every few years.
We are well-positioned to capitalize on this trend.
The challenge in the short term is executing new leases.
Traffic remains good.
However sometimes decision-making for larger blocks of space we offer is unpredictable and can take longer to execute.
As I have stated many times leasing wholesale space is a lumpy business.
We remain confident that we will lease the vacant space in our buildings.
Nevertheless we have pushed out the lease commencement start date by a couple of quarters.
This means that the majority of the 2012 leases not executed as of today will commence in the second half of the year.
This covers the vacant space in Santa Clara Ashburn and New Jersey.
The timing delay affects our original expectations and your expectations for the 2012 guidance which Mark will walk you through.
This does not affect the margins or NAV we expect to create once the buildings are leased.
Returns on our invested capital remain in the 10% to 15% range.
One important point to remember is that we do not require raising new capital.
Now that all new construction have finished our challenge is to lease the remaining buildings we opened in the last 15 months.
The timing and pricing of the new leases will impact our NOI FFO and taxable income significantly over the next 2 years.
I will now give you an update by market.
Chicago Phase II opened last week.
This phase is 79% leased and remains a top market for us.
Phase II has 1 new tenant compared to Phase I.
This reconfirms our strategy of building in 2 phases.
In new markets we experience the greatest leasing risk in the first phase.
Once Phase I is leased our risk is reduced significantly because our Phase I tenants will typically grow with us.
There is no secured debt on this facility and we continue to expect a 12% unlevered return once fully leased.
Leasing at CH1 has done better than expected.
New Jersey has competition but we represent the majority of the available built-out inventory.
Financial institutions have been and continue to be a large percentage of the demand in this market.
They however have been thoughtful in making decisions based on overall economic environment.
There is no secured debt on this property and we remain at 34% leased at NJ1 as of today.
Leasing in this market has been slower than expected.
On January 12 the NYSE placed in service the Safety Access Center at NJ1.
This access center offers full safety network services and support and offer tenants more direct connections to the financial market and market information.
We believe this will attract new financial tenants to the building.
Northern Virginia remains a solid market for us.
This is where we have the greatest concentration of tenants and critical load.
As our tenant requirements increase we like our chances to capture this embedded growth.
Power remains cheap and fibers abundant.
Although leasing has been slower than expected we are still experiencing good traffic.
In the long term we are not concerned about this market.
We remain at 8% leased at ACC6 as of today.
Santa Clara opened on October 1.
This is an excellent well-positioned asset.
We have competition in the valley but we have the majority of the available space in this market.
Demand within this market can surface quickly.
An application or a business can suddenly take off creating unexpected demand.
It is hard to predict this type of event but we are well-positioned to capture the opportunities.
There is no secured debt on this property and we continue to expect unlevered returns of 10% to 12%.
As of today SC1 is 25% leased.
The leasing pace in this market has been what we expected.
In a few markets we are seeing an emergence of a super wholesale category of tenants.
These are tenants which have requirements of 8 megawatts or more who would normally build their own.
If we agree to a return of around 10% they would likely lease with us instead of building their own.
Our biggest competition has always been tenants doing it themselves.
In this range of returns we're seeing even the very large tenants interested in outsourcing.
We continue to explore all of these opportunities.
In summary we believe that there is and will be sufficient demand in all 4 markets to absorb our available inventory.
When market vacancy is discussed it may be viewed there is considerably supply.
However it's important to note in Northern Virginia New Jersey and Santa Clara we are the majority of the market vacancy.
We have a proven leasing track record and remain confident in our ability to lease.
The positive signs for our industry remain in place.
Less than 20% of enterprises outsource their data center requirements.
We believe there is a potential for considerable growth as companies realize the benefits of outsourcing.
Additionally we believe that cloud computing gaming data retention and processing will continue to grow significantly year-over-year.
This growth will also increase the need for data center space.
Leasing our available inventory is everyone's primary goal for 2012.
We are focused on the long-term value creation of the company.
Now I will turn the call over to Mark who will take you through our financial results.
Thank you Hossein.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I want to cover 5 main topics today: a fourth quarter and full 2011 results a capital markets update a walk through our 2012 guidance a summary of the 2012 expected sources and uses of cash and a 2012 dividends update.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 the company's FFO was $0.37 per share compared to $0.33 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010 an increase of 12%.
For the year FFO was $1.61 per share compared to $1.33 per share for the prior year an increase of 21%.
The overall increase for both reporting periods is due to new leases commencing.
AFFO was $0.32 per share for the fourth quarter compared to $0.25 per share quarter-over-quarter an increase of 28%.
For the year for the year ended AFFO was $1.23 per share compared to $0.92 per share for the prior year an increase of 34%.
These overall increases for both reporting periods are primarily the result of increased cash rents collected from tenants.
Quarterly revenues were $74.4 million our highest ever.
This increase was $8.4 million or 13% quarter-over-quarter.
For the year ended revenues were $287.4 million compared to $242.5 million for 2010 an increase of 19%.
As to a capital markets update in January of 2012 we sold 2.6 million shares of perpetual preferred stock raising approximately $63 million.
The proceeds from this raise were used to pay off $35 million that was outstanding on our line with the remaining amount for dry powder.
Cash on hand today stands at $50 million and our unsecured $100 million line remains available.
As of today the interest rate on 80% of our debt is now fixed.
Based on our 2011 results we are very confident in our ability to continue to meet the financial covenants of our loan agreements.
We do not have any bullet debt maturities until December of 2014.
Our balance sheet is in great shape and we plan to keep our leverage low.
I now would like to discuss our 2012 guidance.
Our 2012 FFO guidance range is $1.31 to $1.51 per share.
Let me walk you through this reduction as compared to our 2011 actual results of $1.61 per share.
Interest expense preferred dividends and non-recurring G&amp;A will have a negative impact on FFO of $0.40 per share year-over-year.
As we stated on our third quarter call we do not expect to commence any new developments in 2012.
We continue to believe this is prudent.
The effect is a year-over-year negative impact to the interest we expense on the P&amp;L as compared to what we capitalized to our developments and balance sheet.
For 2011 we capitalized $28.4 million.
In 2012 we expect to capitalize only $1.4 million.
We do however have savings of $2 million cash on lower interest rates year-over-year.
This net difference represents a $0.31 per share negative FFO impact.
To be clear this difference is expensed to the P&amp;L and does not affect any covenant ratios fixed charge ratios or our ability to pay.
We fully expect to pay all interest payments on time as scheduled.
As to preferred dividends we accrued $21 million in 2011 and expect to accrue $27 million in 2012.
This includes the $65 million of additional Series B just raised which we discussed on the third quarter call.
This difference represents a $0.07 per share negative FFO impact.
We fully expect to pay all preferred dividends on time as scheduled.
2012 G&amp;A is up $0.05 per share year-over-year.
This increase includes $2 million of compensation related to the development personnel.
We will expense this rather than capitalize it during the year as no development starts are planned.
2011 G&amp;A includes zero cost for the development team.
This difference represents a $0.02 per share negative FFO impact.
We currently believe that the commencement of new leases for space in our non-stabilized facilities is more likely to begin after the first quarter of 2012 and through early 2013.
This timing directly impacts the timing of recognizing additional revenue and net income from new lease commencements at these facilities.
As Hossein mentioned the lease-up of the available space is critical.
As of today we see the pace of executed leases that can be signed and commenced in 2012 to be slower than what we'd previously thought.
The decision process simply is something we cannot control which is why we have tempered our 2012 lease commencement starting dates.
On occasion demand does come out of nowhere.
Having available inventory will enable us to sign and commence a lease quickly which in the long run we believe is a competitive advantage.
The operating costs of opened buildings not leased represents a negative impact to our 2012 earnings as we have not -- as we are not reimbursed for the operating costs on the vacant inventory and do not receive a management fee.
Year-over-year excluding base rent we expect this negative impact to be $10 million or a reduction of $0.12 per share of FFO in 2012.
During lease-up this implies lower overall margins.
Once leased the margins return to our historical norms under the triple net lease structure.
As a reminder on an individual building basis once a building reaches 25% to 30% leased it breaks even when we include the base rent and all expenses.
Our 2012 guidance expectations include the following.
Base rent for new leases already executed with commencements in 2012 net of Yahoo!'s termination on April 30th total approximately $18 million or $0.22 per share.
Base rent on new leases we expect to sign and commence in 2012 total approximately $11 million or $0.13 per share.
Both of these assumptions place our revenues at the midpoint of our guidance range.
These projected new lease commencements are primarily spread over the second half of 2012.
This places our non-stabilized portfolio at about 70% stabilized up from 39% today as of the end of 2012.
In summary our 2012 FFO midpoint is $1.41 per share.
We project revenues of $325 million up 13% year-over-year.
We project operating income excluding depreciation or EBITDA of $200 million up 9% year-over-year.
Given the current environment we think it's appropriate to look at the business as it is now.
Once we are able to lease the current non-stabilized portfolio we expect approximately $60 million of incremental annualized NOI from new leases not yet executed or commenced without a new capital raise.
We have conservatively budgeted approximately $11 million of new lease commencements of this NOI in the 2012 guidance with the remainder in 2013.
This equates to approximately $0.60 of 2013 FFO based on the current share count.
Cash flow remains a priority so let me quickly walk you through our expected sources and uses for the calendar year 2012.
Our 2012 sources total approximately $137 million.
We started the year with $14 million in cash the net proceeds from the January preferred raise was $63 million and we expect free cash flow from operations after dividends to be $60 million.
Our 2012 uses total approximately $64 million.
The cash spend to complete the existing developments is $35 million the $20 million line of credit outstanding at year-end is paid off $4 million of recurring portfolio level CapEx and $5 million on the principal loan amortization paydown.
Page 15 of our release details out other assumptions related to our 2012 guidance.
The 2012 guidance also assumes no development starts no debt or equity raises unless leasing exceeds our expectations.
As to a dividend update we expect to continue to pay a $0.12 per share cash quarterly common dividend.
We will reevaluate any change as the year progresses.
An increase is contingent on new lease commencements.
Our policy remains consistent to pay at least 100% taxable income.
Any future changes to our common dividend will be approved by our Board of Directors.
We believe our current balance sheet and financial condition gives us a solid foundation.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
Before we open it up for questions let me offer 2 final comments.
First leasing is the key to increasing shareholder value and we're confident in our ability to do it.
Secondly Jonathan Heiliger joined the company's Board of Directors in November.
Previously he served as Vice President of Technical Operations for Facebook.
His addition provides the board with the perspective of a designer and a user of innovative data center solutions.
We are happy to have him with us.
With that I will open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Kreg Milliman [ph] of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's Jordan Sadler here with Kreg.
First question is I'm curious about your comments regarding the super wholesale tenants you're seeing in the market.
And it sounded as if you talked about lower potential returns on certain projects as a result of maybe potential leases with these types of tenants.
Can you maybe just give us a little bit more color around the number of tenants like this in the market the markets they're showing up in? And then sort of the genesis for the lower returns versus your historical underwriting.
It's only again 8 to 15-megawatt type tenants that we're talking about.
And that size tenants there are only like less than a handful that we're talking to primarily in 2 markets.
And we're not prepared to discuss which markets because there are only a few of them.
There are only a handful of tenants that can take that much space.
Now the comment was just to give not necessarily that we'll have lower returns no.
But what the comment was meant to give you more color on a positive tone of what we're seeing is where before a year ago it was look you get to 10 megawatts after you get to 10 megawatts you can do your own.
Here we're saying that look if you get to 10 megawatts you could now do your own or in a lot of ways some tenants are realizing outsourcing makes more sense because they are able to go into a bigger building than an 8-megawatt building a 36-megawatt has significantly lower operating expenses and have the savings there and also with that savings they're able to really -- it'll be similar to owning their own which in this current economic environment we're seeing deals that otherwise would be built-to-suits that maybe some of our other competitors are even talking about saying look but we'll also consider an outsourced data center that's 36 megawatts what if we take 10 megawatts of it? We have not executed any of those but we're seeing those deals in the market.
But typically if the entire data center was at those type of rates that those very large tenants were looking for it would be approximately a 10% return.
But we're never going to have the entire data center with 1 36 megawatt tenant.
It just doesn't exist.
Research Division</strong> Okay but you're saying essentially those leases are being underwritten at 10% returns? Yes approximately.
I mean the same as doing a built-to-suit right? Built-to-suits that are out in the market are essentially around those rates.
But what they get in going into a very large building is that they'll have the operating expense savings as well.
Research Division</strong> Should we also expect that the lease term would be similar to a built-to-suit type transaction in terms of the overall term? Yes that's correct.
I would agree with that.
It will be longer than what we typically see.
Research Division</strong> 10-plus years? Much more than that yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question is I mean is this -- it seems the guidance obviously is catching everyone by surprise.
And I understand some of the drivers here one of which which you've obviously gone through the capitalized interest which we all really should've had in our numbers.
But separately the leasing.
Is this super wholesale strategy a piece of that lowered guidance? And how much of guidance is you setting the bar so that there's no possible way you could miss this? No this super wholesale strategy is absolutely not in the guidance.
That was just a comment on what we're seeing out in the market.
I think with specific to guidance for this year compared to what maybe consensus was that we -- we obviously look at where leasing is each and every quarter.
Sitting here today what we think will sign this quarter and potentially in the next quarter is still up in the air.
And it's really a function of just putting it out there this is where we're at and that low-end is obviously no leasing the midpoint the high-end is we'll be upside if we lease.
Yes on the low-end basically we're being so conservative we could even not show up.
Research Division</strong> Yes it seems that way.
Okay no that's helpful.
Were you saying though if you were -- let's say you were to sign one of these super wholesale type tenants there could be some downside relative to the $60 million of incremental NOI upside Mark? Yes I think the $60 million was in that midpoint if you recall from some investor presentations last quarter with I think Santa Clara was $11 million.
Chicago was pretty well leased so that one $12 million is good.
Ashburn and New Jersey were in that $10 million $11 million or $12 million range.
So maybe a point or 2 shaved off of that $60 million but not materially different.
Our next question will come from Sri Nagarajan of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> A question just to follow up on what Jordan was asking there in terms of perhaps rent impacts as you lease the space.
I know that for guidance you've pushed out the leasing but obviously and you're talking about super tenant sizes as well in terms of tracking that as a demand.
I was wondering how much of a tenant or rent sacrifice are you assuming in your guidance number one? And would you have -- are you turning down tenants because of lower rents that are being asked in the market? The answer is we will not lose any tenants.
We believe our rents are very competitive.
If anything we're told our rents are too low in some of our markets.
So -- and the guidance we're giving is assuming the returns that we stated that we feel comfortable in getting which in Santa Clara has been 10% to 12%.
In New Jersey we're still at 34% leased we're still comfortable with a 12% return.
And Ashburn has been 12% to 15%.
And in Chicago that is we're almost fully leased we're feeling comfortable at 12%.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough on the development yields there.
Second question I mean just curious as to your remarks Hossein on you're saying that the big tenant leasing is taking time to sign out here.
Obviously from a peer perspective I believe other peers may not be seeing the same type of things that you're seeing because of the big tenant decision-making that's probably slow here.
My question has to do with product strategies.
Are you planning to change that or in any way trying to alter the leasing situation here? Well I have no comments regarding our competitors.
We feel very comfortable with our market.
We feel very comfortable with our product.
Our customers tell us that we have the best product in every market.
So that's where we are.
Our next question will come from Jonathan Atkin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions.
I was wondering the leases that you signed in Santa Clara and elsewhere were those existing customers upsizing their relationship or were those new logos that you signed? And then with respect to built-to-suits is there any opportunity that you would consider that would maybe take you into a new market that you don't currently operate in? With respect the Santa Clara all of our tenants we have very very strict NDAs in place.
So we cannot comment in any shape or form in relation to who we signed and where.
So I'm sorry about that.
It just would be a violation of our NDA.
With relation to built-to-suits yes we have looked at them.
And we continue to look at built-to-suits.
Again typically what we're seeing is the 10% range in the built-to-suits and the leases being 15 to 20 years long.
And we're looking at those type of built-to-suits.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then on the power side I'm interested in any commentary you would have on what portion of the critical load that the customer actually takes and has the customers' ability to kind of gauge their actual usage has that changed over the last several quarters? No.
I think we're seeing different industries use different type of critical loads.
We encourage our customers as opposed to some data center operators to use as much of the load that we make available and we consult with them regularly in how they can use up the space more efficiently.
So we haven't seen any change in the path.
But it really depends by industry.
Financial tenants are on the lower side the West companies are much -- are really on the higher side.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then finally just the leasing decision cycles kind of being elongated.
So how much of that is due to internal budgeting on the part of the customer versus any kind of competitive part of that? Like I said I don't want to say delayed because delayed means it's an industry trend.
I just think it's lumpy.
Sometimes you get it within the quarter sometimes you don't.
And our businesses is in the business of we have less than 30 tenants and we only sign a handful of deals every quarter.
So the subset is that -- the sample subset we're taking from is so small that I can't really give you a general market generalization.
LLC Research Division</strong> But those are driven by the customers' own internal considerations it's not competitive supply? It's mainly the former or the competitive factors here as well that are playing into your outlook? I think at Santa Clara we were very clear we see some competition and there was a market distortion.
In other markets no it's been a internal decisions of shall we do it shall we not what shall we do and considering all their options.
Our next question will come from Brendan Maiorana of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> so I guess Mark it sounded like you were saying that your lease-up properties expected to get to 70% I think per your guidance by the end of the year up from 39%.
If I do the math on that I think it works out to be about 20 or 21 megawatts of leasing over the year.
It doesn't sound like you really have anything that you expect to do in the first half of the year outside of maybe the lease that was signed in Santa Clara.
And you've been running the last 3 quarters at around 4 megawatts of leasing.
So is that -- as we think about 2013 how comfortable are you that you can get to that 70% level given that leasing over the past 3 or 4 quarters has been pretty sluggish? The first -- you're right Q4 and Q1 to date have been low in terms of megawatts signed as compared to the last probably 8 quarters.
There's a lot of deals that are on the table.
There's traffic.
So it's just a function of -- there's some in Q2 that we expect to close and then it's weighted in Q3 and Q4.
But you're right that 20-plus megawatts is our goal.
We've accomplished that the last 3 years.
I think you say in reference 37 1 year 23 25 the other 2 years.
So we're in that ballpark.
And also Brendan when you look at it in Santa Clara and in New Jersey we're really dealing with Phase Is.
The Phase I of a building it typically takes longer than the Phase IIs because we have those embedded organic growth on the Phase IIs.
And we are just in a time in our lifetime that we have gone out to these 4 other markets and we're dealing with Phase I in 2 new markets.
And that typically because we're dealing every customer is a new customer is more challenging than the Phase IIs.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes understood.
Okay.
And then Hossein maybe you can clear up kind of your comments with respect to returns and some of the commentary that's kind of been coming out of the market where I think you guys have been willing to be more aggressive on rate.
It sounds like you're suggesting that your return expectations notwithstanding the super wholesale customers are in line with what you've communicated previously.
But there's been I think discussion that you guys would look to do deals at lower rates in New Jersey and maybe a couple of other markets and that you're willing to drive broker commissions a little bit higher too.
So how do you kind of match up those comments with your earlier comments that your return expectations are still unchanged? Well I think let me put Santa Clara aside because we adjusted our return expectations in Santa Clara.
So when you put that market aside so we look at our other markets there are -- in New Jersey in Virginia we're very comfortable with our return expectations.
In Chicago we're almost there right at 79% leased.
So we're very comfortable with that return expectations.
And so it's really only New Jersey that you're talking about.
And in New Jersey we're about 1/3 leased.
On 1/3 leased the demand we're seeing yes we've quoted some rents lower because we really want that particular tenant.
We've closed at some rents that are higher.
At where we are today at the 1/3 leased we are comfortable with that 12% unlevered return.
Now how -- if we really want the particular tenant yes we'll fight for it.
If -- some other tenants we may want to stick to our rents.
So I think there is a lot of broker talk and especially in Jersey.
Now obviously one of our biggest competitors raised their brokerage commissions and I wrote them an e-mail and said okay fine we're matching it.
And we would match that all the time.
We're not going to lose deals based on a commission.
And so that's how that came about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes understood.
And how much kind of for sensitivity how much do increased commissions like does that impact your returns? Not significantly at all.
Our next question will come from Michael Bilerman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Hossein I wanted to talk a little bit as to how you think about returns.
You've talked a lot about the stabilized sort of returns and maybe a little bit lighter on Santa Clara but that you're holding firm on the other markets.
But how do you think sort of from an IRR perspective? And I say that just because you obviously build big.
You obviously have the cap interest for when you're building but there's a certain amount of idle capital as you lease up these buildings and it takes 18 to 24 months to get them leased.
You have the operating expenses that are obviously flowing through the P&amp;L and higher costs time all these things that sort of impact over a long term sort of the return of a project not necessarily your stabilized yield.
But if you were to think from day one where you buy the land and you put your shovel in the ground and the all-in cost.
You're not capitalizing interest but you certainly have spent all that money it's idle.
How do you sort of think about IRR? Well I think the way I'm quoting a return is the GAAP rent over the total development cost.
That's the 12%.
Research Division</strong> But that development cost doesn't include the idle -- I mean you're not capitalizing any more debt to the projects but arguably you've spent all this money and you're not earning a return so.
.
.
Just to take the definition we're using and you should use the same definition on your model so we're apple-to-apples is once the project is fully built and stop capitalizing that's the amount that's the denominator.
And the numerator is all the GAAP rents.
Research Division</strong> No and I understand.
My question goes more so I mean do you not think about it from the perspective of if you were to build a -- let's say a 10-year discounted cash flow analysis obviously the early years of a project you are obviously carrying a lot more of the capital with no rent.
And if we were to think about it from an IRR that IRR would inherently be less.
So when you talk about that your returns haven't changed the fact that the leasing is a little bit slower the fact that you're holding more capital in the project with no return that would affect your sort of IRR on the project.
Oh yes I agree.
The longer the math works -- I mean all of us went to business school right? The longer it takes to lease the lower the IRR.
You can't argue with that.
Research Division</strong> Right and has that -- I mean as you think about the business model and where you're going does that -- I guess do these projects change your thinking about how you build and how you want to approach it? Well I think we do -- we're not stubborn.
We do believe that long term as a landlord these are the buildings that I certainly want to own.
Because once you lease up a 36-megawatt building our operating costs are a fraction of a 10-megawatt building.
And the buildings are extremely high quality.
Long term if you're going to own these assets this is what you want to own.
Now you're right what we are looking at in some of the Phase IIs is as we look at the Phase IIs I'm glad you asked this question we had looked at breaking up the Phase IIs into 9-megawatt and 4.55-megawatt increment builds.
And we are now comfortable even with the isoparallel design of breaking down the build of the second half to those increments.
Research Division</strong> So it allows you to phase it in a little bit better.
Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Mark just a question on the -- sort of the NOI and the phasing through the year.
And I think obviously you talked about this negative FFO two-fer effectively; right? Where you're not getting any rent and you're having to take all of the operating expenses of the building which you talked about being a $0.12 or about a $10 million hit for the entire year.
I assume that abates during the year.
So I'm wondering if you look at where you are today you are 33% leased and 39% -- 39% leased but 33% commenced in the 4 effective development projects.
Assuming your stabilized yields and applying it to that you would get to about $30 million of annualized NOI but I assume you have a lot of operating expenses that will reduce that.
So your effective yield is not sort of call it 4% it's something much lower today.
And as you move to the fourth quarter you start to lease up to 70% you get to that sort of $60 million of NOI based on your yields.
But I'm just not sure sort of where you are in the first quarter in terms of NOI contribution from the 4 developments versus what you're expecting in the fourth quarter of the year to make sure that we have the ramp going the right way.
Yes I mean it's obviously a challenge because the ramp does affect it.
And as you think of Santa Clara we're sitting at 25% and we walk through the year how that leasing will go it's sort of back end-loaded.
But the OpEx team the operating team is paying attention to their spend in the first couple of quarters here.
And as we go we obviously have tenants in the building so we're obviously taking care of the building.
But I think the spend -- on spend side you think of it somewhat even over the course of the year because the building's open and running we're paying the taxes we're paying insurance.
But at the maintenance level some of the buildings still have burn-off with regards to warranty work on some of the equipment.
So it does ramp up as the year progresses.
Research Division</strong> But you don't have the NOI contribution from developments each quarter so that -- how it matches up to your guidance? So that...
Yes I don't have that at my fingertips in terms of what that -- in terms of disclosing that by development.
It is back-end loaded.
There's more of a negative hit obviously in the beginning and then as it leases then it obviously goes away.
And our next question will come from Bill Crow of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hossein how long do you anticipate keeping the development team in place if conditions kind of muddle along as they are? That's a good question.
Our development team is -- the majority of it is outsourced.
So we're very comfortable with them.
There are -- this year we don't anticipate -- unless we get a very large free lease we do not anticipate starting -- actually I can just tell you we will not start a new development unless there's a huge prelease.
Having said that our small team that we have in place we will keep because they are now working on our next-generation design for the future years.
And it takes -- to finalize and to really get these things to the perfection that we'd like to build them on a normal schedule it takes like 9 months to get to our next-generation design.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How different do you think that -- I know I'm asking you to look into the future but the next generation design will be from the current design? Are you going to build smaller or how will you change the design do you think? The design will change in the electrical infrastructure and mechanical infrastructure.
From a size perspective it will not change.
We'll be -- we're working on having it built more in smaller phases but still do an isoparallel ring bus.
It's from an efficiency standpoint we believe will drive material efficiencies in operating costs and in construction costs.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally for me I know we've beaten the yields to death here but we've seen yields on development go from 12% to 15% to 10% to 12% let's call it right now.
And at $1 000 a foot back development it's high risk.
At what point -- if you'd go sub-10% if that's the way the market turns does that change the model? If you and Lammot were building privately what sort of yields would you require before you put that risk out there? I think you make a very good point but also our cost of capital has changed significantly.
Where we ended up raising our bonds they were at 8.5% if you remember.
Now they're trading in the low 6s.
So we didn't have access to perpetual preferred.
Now we have access to perpetual preferred.
We just raised our last round at 7 5/8%.
Compared to normal real estate we have -- before the private company Lammot and I were using very high octane Lehman money.
So I would say our overall returns have remained pretty much consistent with what we've been doing because our cost of capital has come down significantly.
So we still see a big amount of a gap between our returns and our cost of capital.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But your unlevered returns have come down.
And I guess if you went sub-10% on an unlevered basis how would that impact your appetite for future development? Well I think we'd look at everything and if that did happen -- but again I think the difference is not just the return.
The difference is between our cost of capital and return.
That delta is what makes the difference.
So say for example if our return came to sub-10% but our cost of capital was at 5% that's still a very good deal.
Our next question will come from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First can you give me a ballpark of what the actual operating expenses are on your lease-up projects? Should we be assuming somewhere between $4 million and call it $6 million a property on an annual basis? I think for New Jersey and Santa Clara it's roughly around $7 million $7.5 million those 18.2-megawatt phases.
Obviously for ACC6 it's a smaller build it's probably in the $4 million $4.5 million range.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
With respect to the lease-up one of your other competitors recently had a slide which basically commented that the Northern Virginia market is currently experiencing an oversupply situation.
And basic economics usually suggest that when supply exceeds demand it can put pressure on pricing.
Do you have any expectation that rents overall in the Northern Virginia market are going to be coming down over the next 12 or 18 months? We haven't seen it and I think our other competitor we all know who it is we are the supply.
We're the ones with 12-megawatts of space available right there in their backyard.
So I think if the supply was everywhere in the market it's a little bit different in that we are 80% of the supply.
Research Division</strong> Last question just a clarification.
When you talk about the GAAP yields if we were to translate those over into cash yields just given the rent bump that are inherent in your leases would you say that your cash stabilized yields are give or take initial cash stabilized yields let's call it are they under 200 bps lower? No I don't have the number in my head but typically last time I looked at it the difference between -- the GAAP number and the cash number there are 2 factors in there.
One is the ramp which takes given 6 months to 18 months to fill up that's part of -- that's about 75% 80% of the difference.
The balance is the escalator.
So once the -- do you see what I'm saying? That's how it breaks down between GAAP and.
.
.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up on that if I can.
Do you have any situations where you've got tenants with signed leases where they've commenced their lease but you thought they were going to be ramping up the rent payment over 6 months and now they're telling you we don't need that much power we don't need that much space let's ramp it over 12 to 18 months and you modify that lease? No because in every case is a hard commitment.
And in fact Mark said it in his prepared remarks that we have signed leases in 2012 with commitments that if those leases started at the beginning of 2012 rather than the end of 2012 we would have an additional $0.11 of FFO.
Our next question will come from Omotayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just following up with Ross's question and Hossein your comment about the signed leases in '12 where the commencement is later in '12.
Is that the Rackspace situation at CH1 you're talking about? We cannot comment specifically on tenants.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In your last quarter you did talk about the phase-in of the Rackspace lease.
The 79% leased in Chicago 57% of that has already started Tayo.
And that remaining 21% is commencing in equal installments over 3 different quarters.
They're kind of hard dates Q3 Q4 and Q1 of '13.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And it's that phase-in that's creating that $11 million difference that you talked about? Yes it's $0.11 that's correct not $11 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay $0.11.
Now the other question I have is when I look at your other assets on Page 9 where you have the leased amount and the commenced amounts are pretty much the same.
And even some other leases like SC1 you signed it this quarter it's commencing this quarter.
I'm just curious why you expect to see more of this kind of phased-in approach when some of the more recent leases you signed you've kind of signed them and you've kind of commenced almost in the same quarter? We typically have ramped in all of our buildings in our lifetime and I think will continue to happen.
It happens.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes but I think you're talking about much longer ramps now versus historically what we've seen in the past.
No I don't think so.
I think it's just a function of when we sign the leases.
If we sign leases this quarter and next and the tenant has immediate demand we're going to start them.
But I think it's just the focus of what the tenant wants how fast do they want in.
The ramp is maybe a function of the cash what they pay us in terms of base rent.
But typically on the reimbursement of tenant cost it typically starts day one.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then last year you guys kind of gave us what your targeted occupancy was for ACC6 New Jersey 1 and Santa Clara.
Are you going to be giving us that kind of number again for 2012? And where you kind of expect to be at the end of the year? Well I gave a blended rate of around 70% for the non-stabilized portfolio.
Obviously we gave out 25% for California.
We hit that.
50% in Jersey obviously we're light on that and 30% in Ashburn.
So pushing out things a couple of quarters blended 70% I'd like to leave it at that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that 70% number you're talking about is that just leases that have been signed or is that actually 70% all of that would've commenced? That would be everything that commences by 12/31.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Commences by 12/31 okay.
'12.
Our next question will come from Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> A lot of questions have been asked and answered here but maybe if we can do 2 strategic questions.
The first is in terms of looking at benchmarks and kind of thinking about what your business might do longer term because I think obviously at some point you're going to return to developing new properties what should we look for that would give us a sense that you might return to that activity when we look at your numbers? I think we need to be significantly leased up on this current portfolio.
What we're hearing from many of our investors is and when looking at where we're trading is we're not getting any credit or very little credit for our development portfolio.
So we would want to be more leased up or significantly leased up in our development portfolio and be paid for that before we start a new development.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
You mentioned the super wholesale strategy.
I think you acknowledge it that could take you potentially to new markets.
Of course this would have to come with a significant prelease.
And you also have talked about looking at some new data center designs.
Would you guys be willing to consider something like the open compute designs by Facebook incorporating outside air handlers in that because you've been very consistent with the way that you've deployed your assets.
Well I think it's a very good question.
On the new markets and doing those types of deals where we stated the returns are 10% obviously that 10% incorporates a long-term prelease execution.
And when you have a long-term lease say 20 years you're not that concerned about the design of a building if the entire building is occupied by one tenant.
Because what does it matter? They're taking the risk.
If the building is significantly multi-tenanted and -- at that time we would need to compromise on some of the designs because we want to make sure that other tenants will also like some of the features in there.
We still have many tenants that want to follow the ASHRAE guidelines more so than running their computers at 90 degrees.
So then we need to then build a design that the majority of the market wants not just the Facebooks of the world.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just one last question.
One of the things that we're hearing about from a demand perspective is a desire to get call it hybrid architecture inside the data center.
We've seen Amazon deliver fast pipes to a number of different facilities Amazon Web services to kind of match up their public cloud with maybe some private deployments.
You guys would seem to be fairly well-positioned to go after this opportunity having one of your larger tenants Rackspace run a public cloud.
Is that something that you're currently exploring? We explore all of these opportunities with networks all the time.
Yes we explore any and all those opportunities with network.
Our next question will come from Robert Stevenson of Macquarie.
Just 2 quick here.
Mark the $11 million of incremental revenue that you're expecting to commence in 2012 that puts you at the midpoint of the guidance range? Yes roughly.
And does that correspond with the 20 megawatts of leasing? Does that also put you at the midpoint of the guidance range? Yes it does.
But the commencement dates are obviously second-half loaded.
So that's why the pickup.
It's not an annualized run rate for this 20 megawatts.
No no.
I just want to be able to do the math on that as to what that sort of implies going forward as we roll into fourth quarter and 2013.
And then the other quick question is on your lease expiration schedule there's a footnotes 4 that talks about I believe the Yahoo! lease the 5.7 megawatts that they've notified you about vacating.
There's also a thing there about the other lease that's expiring this year that has an option to terminate for I guess it's a little over 1.1 megawatts.
Have they given you any termination notice as of yet? No they have not.
And that's kind of a rolling 6 months lease with that particular tenant.
That was a very unusual tenant that had a tied -- we almost never do this -- that's tied to a government contract.
And they matched their option to the government contract that that system integrator had.
So as long as they continue getting their government contract I guess they'll continue.
So they get an option twice a year to renew? It's ongoing.
Yes it's an ongoing.
So it kind of rolls every day.
So they could give you notice now or never? Exactly.
And we're happy to say we have not received a notice now.
Our next question will come from Dave Rodgers of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one question for me.
You talked about with the super wholesale tenants is that you'd be willing to accept returns maybe down as low as 10% which would be comparable to built-to-suits.
Generally where I think we've seen some of these super wholesale tenants end up are in cheaper power markets.
So I think while the 10% certainly makes sense for you do you know what type of premium they might be willing to pay to stay in the markets that you're in currently to be involved with DFT again based upon power incentives in some of these other markets where [indiscernible].
I think I've also mentioned that base this would be typically if we did a super wholesale deal it could be a prelease.
If it's a prelease it could be in one of the most attractive markets we're talking about the power markets we're talking about specifically perhaps the Pacific Northwest or some of those very cheap power markets.
Having said that I do think Virginia is in the cheaper range of markets as far as power and it has other things it offers like very good networks and decent cost of construction and employees.
So it's not unforeseen to do something in that market as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> What type of premium do you think tenants would be willing to pay to stay there versus say the Carolinas or the Pacific Northwest? Well the Carolinas is not that much cheaper or the Pacific Northwest.
I mean the -- some of the places that we've toured in Oregon the prices are comparable in power to Virginia's expense.
So we've seen some numbers around $0.045 to where it is in some Carolinas or in the Pacific Northwest or the $0.06 were in Virginia.
So that $0.015 may answer your question of if it's worthwhile or not but it's not a huge difference in power cost.
That's how I answer your question.
Our next question will be from Romeo Reyes of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two very quick ones.
Just to clarify on the additional 3 watts that you added in Q4 and the 2.28 that you added in Q1 that adds an incremental $11 million of revenue on an annualized basis? Is that correct Mark? I don't think that $11 million was tied to those leases executed.
That $11 million was base rent on new leases we expect to sign and commence in '12.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so I guess you did not have the 3.01 for the full fourth quarter I would assume or did you? I think those were signed during the quarter.
So it might not have been -- you can't take Q4 and annualize if that's what you're trying to do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If we were to add the 3.01 for the 3 months and then add the 2.28 for the 3 months I guess right now even without that you'd be at around $300 million of revenue run rate.
If we were to kind of normalize assuming that whatever you call it 5.29 megawatts were in the numbers in Q4 how much of a lift would you have in revenues? Maybe -- I'll walk through that after the call with you Romeo.
I'm not sure I follow exactly what you're chasing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then the second question is regarding RP capacity and free cash flow.
As your CapEx comes down this year it seems like you're going to have some RP capacity.
Would you contemplate buying back stock? That's always on the table.
We'd have to discuss that with the board at this point.
But I think that's always an option for a lot of companies.
Our next question will come from Chris Lucas of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question Mark on getting to the high-end of guidance.
Is that simply a lease commencement exercise? Simple as that Chris.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of the Yahoo! lease I know you mentioned it briefly as you were going through your remarks what is your expected impact this year as it relates to that lease? Well it's roughly half of that building.
That building costs us about $4 million a year to run but maybe closer to $5 million from an OpEx perspective.
The lease-up expectations are spread over the course of the rest of '12 and '13.
So there's obviously a couple of pennies reduction with regards to the OpEx of that building until we lease it up.
Research Division</strong> Do you have access to that space right now or is that still being occupied? It's still being occupied.
Research Division</strong> And then real quick last question for me.
You've cleaned up the balance on the line.
When do you start the renegotiation process for your credit facility? That's soon.
Our next question will come from Lucas Hartwich of Green Street Advisors.
Hossein I was just wondering how competitive do you feel DuPont's typical data center is when it comes to attracting traditional corporate tenants or co-location operators? Would you consider a DuPont facility is it too over-improved too robust for those types of tenants? I think it depends on the type of corporate data center.
We do believe that we are the highest quality as far as asset quality.
Do I think that for some tenants they don't need all the robustness that we have? Yes I agree with you.
For some tenants they don't need all of the robustness we have.
But we're in the business of being the landlord for many years to come.
We want a building that is of the highest quality will have more endurance against time and changes.
And I think it's the right assets for the long-term to own.
Our next question will be a follow-up from Michael Bilerman from Citi.
It's Manny here with Michael.
The 70% number that you said that you'd be getting to I believe that was both for leased up and also commenced.
So I was just wondering are you assuming that any new leases that you sign will have time to commence by 12/31? I'm sorry.
Repeat that Manny? So you said that by the end of the year you expect to be in the new developments 70% leased correct? On average on nonstabilized group that's correct.
Where do you expect to be commenced within that same group of assets? That's -- I guess -- I don't know if I misspoke but it is 70% commenced for that group of assets.
So the lease and the commenced will be at the same rate? Yes.
Just to keep it simple at this point leased and commenced will be the same.
Again but back-half loaded so there's not a lot of run rate for the year.
So the pickup is really in '13.
And gentlemen I'm showing no further questions in the queue.
Thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to providing future leasing updates and showing continued growth in 2012 and 2013.
This concludes today's conference call.
At this time you may disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to DuPont Fabros Technology's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager for the company.
Mr.
Warnke you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's First Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release which is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be limited to 2 per caller.
If you have additional questions please feel free to return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our first quarter 2012 earnings call.
As noted in our press release we again delivered solid financial results.
We increased the midpoint of our full year FFO guidance by $0.08 per share to $1.49 per share and increased our common dividends by 25%.
Mark will discuss this and our other financial results later in the call.
Since our leasing is our primary focus for 2012 I would like to begin with an update.
The beginning of the year has started off well for us.
To date we have signed 6 leases totaling 23.25 megawatts of critical load which includes a pre-lease in Phase II of ACC6 in Ashburn.
This exceeded our expectations as we expected our leasing to be mostly in the second half of 2012.
In the first quarter we signed 3 leases representing approximately 5 megawatts of critical load.
Two leases were in Santa Clara one of which was previously disclosed on our last earnings call.
The remaining lease is with a new enterprise tenant in New Jersey.
Subsequent to the first quarter we signed 2 leases in Phase I of ACC6.
Both are with existing Internet tenants on our Ashburn campus.
These leases totaled 9.75 megawatts or 75% of Phase I.
As of today Phase I of ACC6 is 83% leased.
Additionally we signed a pre-lease in Phase II of ACC6 for 8.67 megawatts with an existing Internet tenant.
This lease is expected to commence in equal parts in the first and third quarters of 2013.
The deal terms of this lease have been provided on Page 2 of our earnings release.
We continue to believe outsourcing data center requirements makes sense.
Outsourcing saves tenants capital and allows them to focus on their core businesses rather than data center operations which is our sole focus.
Our just-in-time inventory allows us to meet the tenant's immediate needs.
With these competitive advantages we look to have continued success into the future.
Virginia has been and remains a strong market for us.
We have benefited from the success of our tenants and continually strengthen our relationship with them.
As previously mentioned ACC6 Phase I is 83% leased and well ahead of our expectations.
Phase II of ACC6 is 67% pre-leased.
With this pre-lease we will commence development of Phase II immediately and expect to deliver the facility at the end of 2012.
Our free cash flow and line of credit will fund these developments without the need to raise additional capital.
The entire ACC6 building is currently 75% leased and has an average remaining lease term of 13.6 years.
A large part of the space at ACC6 has been leased with super wholesale deals.
Both tenants have built their own data centers and continue to evaluate the build versus buy analysis.
We expect our returns on this property to be approximately 12% once the building is stabilized.
For all other properties we expect to achieve our previously stated returns.
We continue to have confidence in our New Jersey product and believe in the long run this will be a great asset for us.
As compared to our other markets decision-making in New Jersey takes longer.
Our sales team continues to track more demand than supply.
We signed one small lease of 284 kilowatts in New Jersey in the first quarter.
We're confident in our ability to lease up the remaining space.
New Jersey is 36% leased as of today.
Santa Clara leasing is in line with our expectations.
This market continues to be strong for outsourced data center solutions.
During the quarter we signed 2 leases in Santa Clara.
One was previously disclosed on our last earnings call and was for 2.275 megawatts.
The other lease was also for 2.275 megawatts.
Our sales team is tracking good demand.
Santa Clara is 38% leased as of today.
Next week we will have 5.7 megawatts of available space in our VA3 facility.
The only thing needed to re-lease the computer rooms is some minor painting and replacing a few floor tiles.
We are actively working on re-leasing the space.
There is no change in Chicago from our last call.
We successfully opened Phase II in February 1 and remain 79% pre-leased.
As provided in our earnings release one tenant has an option to give back 2.6 megawatts or 14% of Phase II.
Tenants in Phase II are actively building out their space.
We are in discussions with new tenants on the remaining space.
Leasing remains our primary focus for 2012.
As I have said in the past leasing can be lumpy.
We happened to do a lot of leasing since the beginning of the year.
Although this has been a great start we have plenty of work to do.
Now I will turn over the call to Mark who will take you through our financial results.
Thank you Hossein.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
I want to cover 4 main topics today: The first quarter results a capital markets update a 2012 guidance update and a dividend update.
For the first quarter of 2012 the company's FFO was $0.34 per share compared to $0.38 per share in the first quarter of 2011.
The $0.04 per share decrease was primarily due to lower capitalized interest expense additional preferred dividends and unreimbursed property operating expenses.
Quarterly revenues were $78.4 million an increase of $9.9 million or 14% over the first quarter of 2011.
AFFO was $0.30 per share in the first quarter compared to $0.25 per share quarter-over-quarter an increase of $0.05 per share or 20%.
Increased cash rents drove this.
Sequentially as compared to Q4 revenues increased 5% from $74 million to $78 million.
During the first quarter 7 leases commenced totaling 15.23 megawatts.
Year-to-date we've commenced 23.9 megawatts as compared to 13.5 for the entire year of 2011.
To a quick capital markets update all of which has been previously disclosed we issued 2.6 million shares of perpetual preferred stock raising approximately $63 million in January.
In March we increased our line of credit from $100 million to $225 million while lowering the interest rate and extending the maturity to March 2016 with an additional one-year extension option.
This increased line and free cash flow will allow us to complete Phase II of ACC6 without additional sources of capital.
Cash on hand stands at approximately $42 million today and all of our unsecured $225 million line remains available.
As a result of the leases executed and commenced to date we raised the lower end of our 2012 FFO guidance by $0.13 per share and increased the top end of guidance by $0.03 per share.
Full year FFO guidance was increased from $1.31 to $1.51 per share to $1.44 to $1.54 per share.
The bottom end of the new guidance represents no additional leases signed and commenced for the year.
To hit the midpoint of our new guidance we need to sign and commence about $4 million of NOI or $0.05 per share.
We need about $8 million or $0.10 per share to hit the high end of our new guidance.
We will capitalize about $2.5 million or $0.03 per share of interest and about $1.5 million or $0.02 per share of G&amp;A in the development of ACC6 in 2012.
Our FFO guidance range for the second quarter of 2012 is $0.35 to $0.37 per share.
As of today our non-stabilized properties are 57% leased with a stated goal of 70% by year end.
This remains our goal to drive annualized rents in 2013.
With the leases commenced to date and the increase in the FFO for the year our Board of Directors approved a second quarter cash common stock dividend increase of 25%.
This increases our quarterly dividend from $0.12 per share to $0.15 per share.
We believe our solid financial condition and balance sheet flexibility places us in a great position to continue to grow the company.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
Our top priority is to lease our available inventory.
This is everyone's focus.
We are confident that there is sufficient demand in all our markets to absorb our inventory.
I would like to thank everyone at DFT for their continued hard work and contribution.
With that we're happy to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> And Manny Korchman is on with me as well.
Hossein in your opening comments you talked about tenants.
You believe that outsourcing is a trend but clearly tenants have -- and certainly the larger tenants have a decision to lease versus build their own centers.
What sort of analysis do they go through in sort of evaluating that decision and sort of how do you get them over the hump of leasing rather than just building their own? Michael a very good question.
It is not just a pure cost issue although that's very important.
One of the other points that people don't always appreciate is the operating cost of the data center.
These large 26 to 36-megawatt facilities operate at $28 approximately in Virginia per kilowatt per month.
If you assume that the rents of these facilities are say $100 a kilowatt and the operating expenses are $28 if a tenant goes and builds a small facility 5 megawatts 4 megawatts 3 megawatts that number could go from the $28 very easily to $60 per kilowatt.
The economies of scale are so large that when you look at the rent of $100 and the operating expense being $28 that operating expense could go to $60 for a 3 4 megawatt facility.
So when you look at that scale that's a $32 difference which is 32% of their rents number.
So when they look at that number they look at obviously their own cost of funds they look at -- some look at capitalizing leases versus operating leases.
And more sophisticated tenants will also look at the useful life of an asset that they may own.
Some of those container-type assets they only have a useful life of 8 years or 2 computer cycles.
And so when you depreciate that in their models owning an asset owning a container could be significantly more expensive.
So you would look at each one of these issues.
And many of our tenants also have spikes in their demand that suddenly they may need to lease something even though they've built their own.
But I would say one of the biggest issues is the overall cost of leasing versus ownership.
Research Division</strong> And then just what caused the delay on earnings? I think you were supposed to have reported after the close yesterday.
Was it literally a lease that you were waiting to be signed? Or what sort of drove the delay to report this morning? I think I mean there was one deal that we had coming in and we were just waiting for one signature.
Research Division</strong> So that lease was it now included in the results? That's what you're...
Yes that's correct.
The next question comes from Rob Stevenson of Macquarie.
Just a couple of quick ones.
What's your return expectation on ACC6 Phase II? And has there been any changes on the other developments these days? I think I stated in my prepared remarks that the overall return on ACC6 we expect it to be 12% once it's fully stabilized.
That's Phase I and II? That is correct.
Okay.
And then in terms of Mark what's the expectation for financing of ACC6 Phase II? Are you going to do that with debt? Are you guys going to look to issue equity or ATM program? Rob what we tried to get across is free cash flow this year we had projected to be around $60 million.
The spend cycle for that build is probably in the $85 million to $90 million to finish that phase out.
We will spend that starting this month through the first quarter of '13.
So we will be able to fund the bulk of that this year with free cash flow and probably be $30 million $40 million on the line when we finish in the first quarter.
So no new capital raise.
And the next question comes from Jordan Sadler from Banc (sic) [KeyBanc] Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to circle back on the leasing.
Obviously very robust results.
I'm just curious about what else maybe in the till.
Clearly you guys were burning the midnight oil to put the finishing touches on some of this stuff.
But I think last quarter you talked about some of these super wholesale tenants and maybe even having additional super wholesale tenants in other markets beyond Northern Virginia.
Is that still the case or were you just sort of throwing us off the scent a little bit? I think we're always pursuing -- our business is fishing for these very large fish.
And so we're always pursuing it.
But I don't want to set everyone's expectation that every quarter's going to be like this.
This was an unusually great quarter for us.
And it's a huge lump but as I said it's a lumpy business.
This one was a big lump.
But we are searching.
We are in the market for very big deals and we're always looking.
So I don't want to set the expectation that there'll be enormous deals very soon.
I don't want to set that.
Research Division</strong> No that makes sense.
My curiosity was just are you seeing large tenant requirements like you saw on Northern Virginia outside of Northern Virginia? We have yes.
The answer is yes we have seen that.
Again say for example an enterprise tenant in New Jersey may consider that versus building their own.
And one of the other considerations if it's a bank again the question that Michael asked that bank may be so security conscious that no matter -- they may review deals from all of us but in the end they'll always want to build their own.
So we are actively working them those deals as well but in other -- in New Jersey the possibility of it is less because they do have the security issues that no matter what it costs they want to own their own.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then lastly for Mark.
You went over this.
I think you said $4 million to hit the midpoint $8 million to hit the high end.
I'm just curious.
Just if you could walk through what's speculative in the revenue guidance for the rest of the year? Is that the -- you need to commence -- find and commence incremental leases that will amount to $4 million and $8 million of NOI? In essence yes.
I mean the midpoint of guidance -- we tightened that lower end as you know on the revenues and base rents.
So the midpoint is about where we're headed.
And so the focus is it all depends -- signing leases is great but what's important is when they commence.
And that is what we need to commence to hit those numbers.
So NOI is a combination of base rent and obviously unreimbursed OpEx.
Research Division</strong> So you need to commence another $4 million.
And that's total right? Not annualized but you have to realize $4 million of incremental commenced rent to hit the midpoint of guidance that's sort of not already baked in based on leases you've signed.
Exactly.
That is correct.
That is correct.
And the next question comes from Romeo Reyes of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
Can you give us a sense of how much your existing tenants are growing? And how much of your growth your new lease activity is from new tenants? That's kind of the first question.
And then the second one is with respect to the capital expenditures.
What are you going to anticipate the ramp to be? Is it going to be front-end loaded over the next 2 quarters or do you expect that to be kind of towards the back end of the year? Let me answer the first one.
I'll let Mark do the second one.
I think typically we have enormous amount of organic growth.
So I would say depending on market it could be different market by market but typically I would say in a Virginia or the Internet-type markets as much as 70% of our growth may be from organic internal tenants.
In the enterprise type markets it's almost the reverse.
It's where 70% are with newer tenants and 30% is organic.
But specific to the leases executed to-date Romeo one tenant is new and everybody else was existing.
Yes and that was because most of the leases were in Virginia.
Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Does that explain though why it's taking a little bit longer to lease up Jersey? Yes absolutely.
And typically if you remember Phase Is of assets take significantly longer.
The easy money is on the Phase IIs.
Because on the Phase IIs it's mostly the Phase I tenants growing within the Phase IIs.
And then specific to your second question to help everybody get capitalized interest correct we have about $26 million in the ground for Phase II.
So we will start to capitalize interest off of that number starting 2 months in the second quarter.
Obviously we're ordering equipment to build out the Phase II.
There will be a true bell curve in terms of the spend.
It's obviously a tighter timeframe of when we start to finish this asset but when you think of round numbers $26 million at a weighted average interest rate of 7.6% and then roughly $15 million to $20 million in Q3 and the bulk of the money going out in Q4.
And that sort of maths into the $2.5 million of capitalized interest for this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So $15 million to $20 million of CapEx in Q3 you said? And then what was in Q2? Did you say $26 million? Yes we expect to spend about $60 million this year.
So there'll be -- it will be more weighted toward Q4 than Q3 with a little bit in Q2.
$65 million was the number I put in the press release that we hope to -- we expect to spend this year in cash.
And the next question comes from Dave Rodgers with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hossein I guess maybe to follow up on Jordan's question a little bit more and not to take away from the volume of leasing which was impressive year-to-date it looked like maybe anything over 1 megawatt was really driven by 2 tenants if I read the press release correctly at Virginia and Santa Clara.
So maybe can you give us a sense of kind of what other activity you are seeing in the market? Is activity as robust as it has been? Has it been a little bit slower of late? And the vertical that you're seeing more action from let's say year-to-date? I think that typically we're seeing it from some of the larger tenants and mostly in Virginia and Santa Clara.
From the Internet-type tenants we're seeing good activity.
The enterprise financials type tenants we're seeing slower decision making.
And typically deals are smaller in size.
LLC Research Division</strong> Smaller in size from the enterprise or smaller in size from Internet? Smaller in size than the Internet.
Like the current small deal we did in New Jersey would be about from 280 kilowatts to 1 megawatt with a maximum size of maybe a 2-megawatt deal where the deals in Virginia we're looking at 8 or 9 megawatts on the higher-end side and maybe 1 megawatt on the lower end.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess just given that you're filling up some of the vacancies in the markets where you've been more active and the demand you're saying profile on the Internet side maybe continues to be at the very large scale does that suggest that you'd even think about doing additional builds let's say in Virginia beyond ACC6 Phase II? Are you going to continue to hold out on the smaller blocks until those are leased up? Well we do see Virginia leasing up very well.
So we don't -- I don't anticipate any problem leasing up the 1 megawatt part in Virginia if that's your question.
We only have -- in a building we'll have like -- in a 26-megawatt building we'll have 70% of the space being the larger 2-megawatt rooms.
And then we'll have the 1-megawatt rooms being 30% of the space and those 1-megawatt rooms could be cut up into 284 kilowatts.
So if your question is do I anticipate any problems leasing out the smaller rooms? No absolutely not.
I mean this has been an unbelievable leasing quarter in Virginia.
We just literally opened the building the end of last year and now we're 83% fully leased on Phase I and Phase II is 67% leased.
And the next question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> So listen I was wondering a couple of things.
First I just wanted to make sure that I understood correctly from your prepared remarks that all of the new deals in Virginia were all super wholesale deals.
And then if you could kind of walk us through again some of the elements of how you're defining super wholesale what you're getting what you're giving up in order to get those transactions.
And then finally if you could update us on a comment that you guys made last quarter about considering different facility style structures or building out in different increments.
In the past we've talked about how building out in 18 megawatts chunks delivers great economies of scale.
But at times in certain markets if the leasing environment is difficult it puts a lot of capital into the ground.
So I'd just like to get an update there.
Thanks Jon.
I don't want to put categories that every deal is super wholesale because that's not correct.
I mean everything is -- there are what I call super wholesale.
I don't want to say -- put exact parameters around it.
What we did say last time is we see super wholesale deals that give an overall return of approximately 10% the deal terms are typically longer.
So for the guys that would consider -- considering building their own that makes a lot of sense because they own the building long term anyway and they can get most of the time an operating lease treatment and sign a longer-term lease.
And for us when we mix that with the smaller size deals in this case we are still getting a 12% overall return on the building which is fabulous because we mix it in with the smaller deal.
Our other deals are getting north of 15% on the smaller deals.
So that brings the overall average of the building up to approximately 12%.
On your second question Jonathan what was your second question? Research Division</strong> The second question was that last quarter you talked about examining potentially different architectures for data center construction and building out? Yes I think we have -- our infrastructure I believe is far superior than anything else that exists in the market because of the iso-parallel design.
That gives flexibility of the unused power on the building for redundancy for other tenants within the building.
To me that is a far superior design.
And cost-wise the cost per megawatt to build becomes very efficient.
Now having said that that design we have had challenges building it in increments.
We have now worked out how to do it in 4.55-megawatt increments.
So where that will become effective is building out say for example Phase II of New Jersey.
When we're fully leased on Phase I we could build out Phase II with a 4.55 increment.
Now the construction costs are not completely linear because we have to do some work upfront but that will enable us to have small outlays of cash and essentially build it as we lease it up for some of the markets that we think don't need 18 megawatts within 18 months.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And if I can ask just one more question of Mark.
One of the things that you guys did during the quarter and I see that there's a little bit of a highlight in the release was to expand your line of credit.
Based on the math that I'm doing it looks like this line of credit could be used -- it feels like there's certainly enough capacity for you guys to even consider going after other development opportunities if they arose.
Is that the correct read on that line of credit? And then under what circumstances is the additional $175 million available? Okay Jonathan.
That's exactly why we put that line in place.
It's a 4-year line with a 1-year extension.
We can -- with pre-leasing in hand we can build 2 phases at once.
So with free cash flow this year to finish out this phase $30 million to $40 million on the line we have plenty of capacity to build a -- for example a Phase II in Santa Clara or potentially only half of Santa Clara and half of New Jersey if the rest of it leased.
So we put that in place for the exact purpose of prudently trying to be prepared to build a Phase II out there or to do something else.
Research Division</strong> And under what circumstances is that additional $175 million available? It's really a function of getting a bunch of banks lined up that want to contribute and participate.
So it's really -- it's a two-way street.
We want to have to do it and then we have to find some banks that want to participate.
But currently our $225 million is all 100% available.
And the next question comes from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question.
Just in regards to pricing I know you guys discussed ACC6 and the 12% yield but could you talk a little bit about just market pricing in Santa Clara as well as Northern Virginia and New Jersey what you're seeing? We've seen good demand in Northern Virginia Chicago and Santa Clara.
They're all performing either better than expected or faster -- or at our expectations.
The super wholesale deals are like I said at a lower return of approximately 10% but they're longer lease terms typically and with great credit type tenants and we're more than happy to have them combined with the small accounts.
The New Jersey market we believe it's not necessarily a price-driven market.
There is depth of the market and the decision-making is just slower.
If we suddenly dropped prices in Jersey that would not lease up the data center.
So it's not a pricing issue.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's very helpful.
And then just the VA3 and the 5.7 megawatts can you talk a little bit about just the demand you're seeing for that space? And if anything has changed meaningfully from last quarter when you discussed that space? No I think it's good.
We're just getting ready right now.
We weren't even allowed in the park to go in and -- we're starting to go in and clean it up paint it and put a couple of new floor tiles.
That's a terrific space for resellers and also for tenants that may want an enormous amount of bandwidth.
Sitting on Sunset Hills Drive it's kind of the biggest corridor of fiber carriers in Northern Virginia.
Every fiber carrier is on that road.
So long term I don't see any problems leasing that space.
It's very good type of space.
And we're very happy to have the space because with the leasing that we've done right now we only have 2 megawatts of inventory essentially left in Northern Virginia until the end of the year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
If you just indulge me one more quick question.
Just at Santa Clara 1 just curious the additional lease that was signed in this space is that an entirely new tenant? We don't disclose any tenants.
We're under NDA to disclose any tenant information.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm not asking for the name.
Under that agreement is it a new tenant and you guys are diversifying your tenant base was all I was curious about so that's a tenant...
No.
Like I said we cannot disclose that because of our NDA.
And the next question comes from Lukas Hartwich of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hossein just a quick one.
How big do you think the pool of users is that would lease a DuPont size data center? Well I think -- you mean lease 1 megawatt or lease any megawatt data center? Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think just the -- you've got 30-something tenants today.
I'm just curious.
I think it's actually very very large.
I think our biggest competition in the space whether it's us CoreSite or Digital it is not -- opportunity is not the trying to get tenants that are in the market.
The biggest opportunity 90% of the market is converting guys that are still doing their own little data centers.
We see that opportunity as very very large.
A pharmaceutical company that has a little data center that is outdated that is 2 megawatts.
Financially it makes absolutely no sense a grain processor.
A lot of enterprise companies have historically done their own data centers.
And that's where the biggest opportunity is converting those guys to a 1-megawatt 2-megawatt lease 4 000 servers.
So it's those guys that -- 1 megawatt is approximately 4 000 servers.
So to look at how many companies in the country have need for 4 000 servers and that number my guess is more than 90% of them are still doing their own.
That conversion I think is a very big opportunity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Where do you think most of those enterprise tenants are? Are they in Northern Virginia? I'll give you an example of a tenant to that we lost because those -- in New Jersey we were talking to BlackRock and we gave them a very good deal.
It was absolutely using their operating expense versus us it would have economically made much more sense.
But there were some tax incentives that they finally got and they are building out their own 1.5 2-megawatt data center in Delaware.
It's like a perfect example of something that could've exactly happened.
And they would've had multiple growth opportunities with us because they can look to Phase II where with themselves once they have a piece of land that's less difficult to grow.
I think the Internet guys are normally in Northern Virginia and Santa Clara and the Pacific Northwest.
The enterprise tenants are normally in New Jersey type whether they are the pharmaceuticals and the financials.
Chicago is a mix.
We got some insurance some hospitals and some Internet tenants.
And the next question comes from Young Ku from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hossein given all the success that you guys had in Virginia I'm just trying to see if you can handicap starting another project there instead of other locations? Well I think at the moment we have started ACC6 Phase II so we don't anticipate starting anything else without huge pre-leasing.
As I said I believe the Phase IIs of these assets -- and Virginia almost acts like a Phase II because we have so much embedded tenant demand with our campus.
The other projects once the Phase Is are leased I'm very optimistic on the Phase IIs.
And just look at Chicago.
As soon as we finished Phase I Phase II was delivered 70-something percent leased -- pre-leased.
So I'm very optimistic about the Phase IIs of New Jersey and Santa Clara once the Phase Is are done.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you'll likely start those Phase II projects before you start ACC7? I mean it depends on pre-leasing everywhere as well.
So pre-leasing will trump any of that.
Virginia don't forget even with our 67% leased we have 5.7 megawatts available in VA3 2 megawatts in ACC6 Phase I and Phase II we're leased 8 megawatts but we're delivering 13 by January.
So we have decent amount of inventory.
I don't anticipate starting ACC7 anytime soon.
Certainly not this year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
So I hear that you're pretty comfortable with your land positions in Virginia at this point? Yes we are.
And we have a follow-up question from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up just on the leasing Mark.
So you talked about this $4 million to $8 million.
What would that be from a signed and commenced megawatt perspective? Back of the envelope I'm getting like 6 to 12 megawatts depending obviously on how quickly this stuff comes in.
But I suspect we're talking about stuff that probably wouldn't start until the beginning of the third quarter.
I mean we always had it back-end loaded Q3 Q4.
So obviously we had some great success year-to-date.
But you could sign only a couple of megawatts if it started next week and probably hit that number.
So it's just a function of when it starts.
Our goal is to think about where '13 is going to look like from a growth perspective.
And by getting leases commenced and then getting the annualized run rate in next year that's what drives that guidance jump that you can appreciate for next year.
But we're targeting another 5 10 15 megawatts but the question is do they all start in Q4 a little bit in Q3? So I think it's just -- the megawatts don't drive it.
It's the commencement and the dollars.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So let me think about it a different way.
So the developments you talked about going from 57% today to 70% by the end of the year and obviously different commencement dates when you look at the core portfolio 79% which I guess gets boosted up a little bit by some of the ACC6 leasing where does that commenced or leased rate the 79% and 81% where is that at the end of the year? That's about 15 more megawatts to get us there.
Research Division</strong> So effectively in terms of at the end of the year that's where you'd want to be heading into 2013? 15 more -- we should have in our mind 15 more megawatts of the core portfolio being leased this year on top of the megawatts leased in the development pipeline? Yes it's between 10 and 15 depending on when it starts that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In just the pure core portfolio? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> And that excludes the ACC6 that was done in the quarter.
Exactly.
Excludes ACC6 but it does include VA3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Includes VA3.
Okay so the renewal effective re-lease of the space there.
Think about 10 to 15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second thing is just talk a little bit about the movement in Chicago.
What sort of impact the delay of that 4 megawatts effectively that tenant taking up space in Virginia and why that was important to them to do that and how you got comfortable a delaying the commencement in Chicago; and b potentially getting back almost 3 megawatts if they decide to cancel the lease? I think Chicago like I've said in the last 2 3 quarters is one of our best markets in line with Virginia.
So for us we do not have another development in Chicago right now.
So we think that's a very strong market.
So we're moving it -- it was almost like a move or an option to delay or move a tenant that we're going to have no problems leasing that space in Chicago up because it's so tight.
So for us it was a win-win situation both for them and for us.
Research Division</strong> And how did the rent compare on that space? I don't think we've disclosed that but how do you want to answer that one? Yes I mean just from a commencements one of them was to commence in Q3 and one in 4Q.
So it wasn't a big run rate for this year.
And the rents obviously time will tell whether we release that at what rent up there but...
I think we're still going to hit...
We're still comfortable with our returns.
We're still very comfortable with hitting an overall return of 12% on Chicago.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just want to make this clear.
The 10 to 15 is inclusive of Virginia and also effectively getting the completed not stabilized developments from 57% to 70%? Let me correct myself a little bit.
The 50 -- the 70% goal initially did not include VA3 because that's part of the stabilized portfolio.
The non-stabilized portfolio was the 4 assets that got us to the 70%.
That's our goal for the year.
Research Division</strong> And I just want to -- I apologize just one other clarification.
Hossein you said in your opening comments that you were pleased with the leasing that came in the second quarter which you had thought they were going to be second half.
How much of that were the prospects that you thought were going to come in the second half that you effectively pulled forward versus the potential for incremental demand and continued leasing in the second half? And I know you've talked about it being lumpy and we shouldn't expect big quarters but I'm just trying to really understand how much of this was a shift of stuff that you had in the hopper of tenants that you thought were going to sign that you just got earlier versus incremental.
I think out of the 23 megawatts and this is a little bit of a guess maybe 8 of it was something that we pulled forward.
I guess that's it but I still think we need to do 10 or 15 megawatts through the end of the year.
And Hossein going back to the -- this is Manny here with Michael.
Going back to that tenant that has moved from Chicago to Virginia was that something that you guys initiated or was it something that they came to you two and said look we're in Chicago now but we'd either rather be in Virginia or we'd also like to be Virginia? Yes I think it was a combination.
One thing that I'll add is we recently got a -- we were very active in getting a legislation passed and we -- the Governor of Virginia has now signed it whereby if we qualify for certain things there is no sales tax on servers inside a data center.
And of course we have to still sign a memorandum of understanding with the state which we have not done so yet.
But that makes Virginia a little bit better in terms of economics.
And it is a significant shift.
If you think about it the tenants will spend $10 million a megawatt within their space.
And they may renew their servers every 4 years.
So when you look at that that's approximately $18 a megawatt a year on 5% sales tax -- sorry it's $18 a kilowatt a month let me correct myself in value to the tenant at the $10 million spend and renewing every 4 years on their servers.
And Manny that particular tenant was already in both Virginia and in Chicago.
So they wanted to move and just balancing there...
And our Chicago was so -- we had so much pre-leasing we felt good about leasing the balance.
And then Mark just quickly on the G&amp;A it looks like your guidance to G&amp;A came down $1 million and you said you're capitalizing $1.5 million to $2 million.
So does that mean G&amp;A's actually going up $1 million? No $19 million to $18 million.
I didn't give a range last quarter.
And the $18 million -- it's $1.5 million is what I said so it's honestly a little less than $0.02.
But it rounds whether it's $19.5 million to $17.5 million it's still in that sweet spot.
And the next question comes from Jordan Sadler with Banc (sic) [KeyBanc] Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just clarifying.
On the super wholesale deals the 10% returns are those over the life of the lease? Or is that an initial cash? Or an initial stabilized return? That's a initial stabilized return based on GAAP income.
Research Division</strong> So is it initial -- so GAAP income is average right? Yes yes.
Research Division</strong> So is it -- are you trying to say that x the free rent? Or are you saying x the escalators? I think both the escalators and the ramp are built in.
So the first year they may have rent at 50% on a 12 13-year lease.
And so obviously that gets averaged the first year and then the escalator gets averaged too.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So -- and they're what? 3% escalators in these things? Typically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the initial cash return is probably in the 7% range after the free rent burns off.
It's 10% in the middle 13% at the end or what have you? Probably I mean I haven't looked at it that way but it doesn't sound unreasonable.
Yes that's correct Jordan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just curious this question is a little bit maybe esoteric but lease rates.
Do you think that these wholesale deals lower lease rates for the market because there's sort of precedent? Or do you think that sort of pulling the space out of the market because you in many cases represent a lot of the availability or supply like in this case actually puts upward pressure? Well I think you take out a huge amount of space from the market.
And also these are deals that guys that at that rent are willing to lease but otherwise they want to build their own.
So I think like you said in many instances we are the supply in the market.
And by these super wholesale deals we're taking up big chunks of supply out of the market.
Another question from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up question about ACC6 Phase II.
Could you just let us know the total cost of that data center how much it's going to cost you? Approximately $120 million total cost to build.
We've spent $26 million to-date.
Obviously there's capitalized interest but we'll spend about $85 million to $90 million in cash to finish that out.
Okay.
Actually there are no more questions at the present time so I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you everyone for joining us on today's call.
Thank you.
Welcome to DuPont Fabros Technology's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations manager for the company.
Mr.
Warnke you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's Second Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal Securities Laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release which is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be limited to 2 per caller.
If you have additional questions please feel free to return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our second quarter 2012 earnings call.
As noted in our press release we again delivered solid financial results and also raised the midpoint of our guidance.
Mark will discuss these in greater detail later in the call.
Leasing continues to be our primary focus.
So I would like to begin with an update.
Since our first call -- quarter call we signed 1 new lease for 1.14 megawatts in Santa Clara.
As of today SC1 is 44% leased and in line with our expectations.
New Jersey remains at 36% leased Chicago Phase II at 79% leased Phase I at ACC6 at 83% leased and Phase II of ACC6 is 67% pre-leased.
Our non-stabilized properties are 59% leased.
We believe our year-end goal of being 70% leased on average for all the development properties remain obtainable.
VA3 a 13-megawatt facility in Western Virginia is now 56% least.
It has a lower power density per square foot compared to our recently developed facilities.
This is ideal for cloud to resellers and enterprise tenants who do not require intense environment.
There is good traffic for this space.
We expect lease-up to occur over the next 12 months.
Year-to-date we have leased 24 megawatts of critical load.
This compares with 25 megawatts in all of 2011 and 23 megawatts in all of 2010.
Year-to-date we have commenced leases totaling 26.3 megawatts as compared to 13.5 megawatts for the entire year of 2011.
As I have said many times leasing is always lumpy.
Our sales team is tracking considerable demand in all our markets which could fill up our inventory.
However we continue to see enterprise businesses taking longer to make decisions particularly in New Jersey.
This is consistent to what we have stated over the past year.
Power pricing in New Jersey has historically been about $0.12 per kilowatt and is now about $0.08 per kilowatt.
This has resulted in some Internet-focused tenants considering New Jersey for their data center requirement.
If power pricing continues at this level it will likely increase the interest from a broader range of tenants for New Jersey.
We remain confident about the fundamentals of the data center space and our ability to lease up our available inventory.
In April we commenced development of the Phase II of ACC6 in Ashburn Virginia.
As stated on the last call we expect to fund this development with cash on hand and with the unsecured loan.
We expect to deliver this property at the end of this year.
In May the Governor of Virginia signed new legislation eliminating sales tax on servers and computer equipment if certain conditions are met.
This enables Virginia to compete with other states which have offered similar incentives.
Leasing continues to be everyone's focus for 2012.
Although we have done a significant amount of leasing year-to-date we have plenty of work which needs to be done.
As I have said we are very confident in our ability to lease our vacant space with terms favorable to the company.
Now I will turn the call over to Mark who will take you through our financial results.
Thank you Hossein.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I want to cover 2 main topics today: our second quarter results and the 2012 guidance update.
For the second quarter of 2012 the company's FFO was $0.37 per share compared to $0.42 per share in the second quarter of 2011.
The $0.05 per share decrease was primarily due to lower capitalized interest expense and increased preferred dividends.
Quarterly revenues were $83 million an increase of $12 million or 17% over the second quarter of 2011.
This represents our highest revenue quarter-to-date ever.
AFFO was $0.31 per share for the second quarter compared to $0.30 per share quarter-over-quarter an increase of $0.01 per share or 3%.
Sequentially as compared to Q1 revenues increased 5% from $78 million to $83 million.
During the second quarter 2 leases commenced totaling 9.8 megawatts.
Cash on hand stands at approximately $26 million today and all of our unsecured $225 million line remains available.
As to guidance we have raised the lower end of our 2012 FFO guidance by $0.03 per share.
This is in addition to the $0.13 per share increase to the low end of the range we announced in our Q1 call.
Full year FFO guidance is now $1.47 to $1.54 per share as compared to $1.44 to $1.54 per share previously announced.
As a reminder the bottom end of the new guidance represents no additional leases signed and commenced in 2012.
To achieve the updated midpoint of our new annual guidance we need to sign and commence new leases which we fully expect to do.
Our FFO guidance range for the third quarter of 2012 is $0.37 to $0.40 per share.
This sequential increase over Q2 is primarily additional capitalized interest.
Executing and commencing leases between now and year end is our focus and this will contribute to healthy growth in 2013 regarding FFO AFFO our common dividend and free cash flow.
As Hossein previously mentioned we commenced development of Phase II of ACC6 in April.
Free cash flow should be able to fund the majority of the construction cost through November of this year.
We project a $20 million borrowing from over $225 million line by year end.
This draw should occur in early December.
As of today no additional capital raises are contemplated this year based on our current 2012 guidance provided.
We believe our balance sheet flexibility places us in a great position to continue to grow the company.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
Our top priority is to lease our available inventory.
This is everyone's focus.
The Internet continues to grow which is leading to more and more demand for the data center space.
With that we are happy to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Brendan Maiorana from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question for you guys just in terms of the leasing outlook it sounds like -- can you give us a sense of where the pipeline is today of prospects that are out there and how that may compare to the past couple of quarters? It sounds like you're pretty optimistic that you're going to get some deals done in the back half of the year.
Yet in this quarter outside of the deals that were done in the beginning of the quarter that we previously discussed in the last call there's only the 1 deal done for about a megawatt? I mean leasing continues to be lumpy.
But if you do the math backwards taking the 59% to 70% on our development properties that's about 7 megawatts.
So we feel pretty good about our pipeline from the Internet-type tenants.
New Jersey is less of an Internet-type tenant.
However we do feel very good about it in that there are 2 types of tenant.
There were historically only enterprise-type tenant looking at Jersey.
But right now 2 things have happened primarily the lower power cost that I stated in my prepared remarks.
But also the landing facilities for fiber connectivity have direct connections from Europe to our New Jersey facilities.
So for a tenant that is Internet-based and wants very good connectivity for Europe with a lower power pricing New Jersey is looking like a very good option.
And the reason we are cautiously optimistic about that is as opposed to a smaller investment-type bank that may need 0.5 megawatt to 1 megawatt the Internet-type tenant may need 5 or 6 megawatts.
So we are again we're optimistic about that.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then Hossein just with respect to your tenants a couple of your big ones I mean Facebook is out there and obviously with the -- is there anything that's with their IPO or anything with the Internet tenants that may be causing them to where a couple of quarters or a year ago the outlook may have been an increasing amount of their own space as they're building their own spaces.
Has there been any change in mindset of those type of tenants where they may look at third-party leasing as more of a viable opportunity than 6 or 12 months ago? Well I think with the -- what we term as the Super Bowl sale model is that with a lot of our tenants we did see -- we had to announce -- disclose that as Microsoft has extended one of the leases because they're more than a 10% tenant by SEC rules.
And so we know that they extended the lease with us.
We did announce that Facebook recently had a deal with us.
I'm not sure if it's a IPO-type of phenomenon that now they're public.
But I think certainly with the super wholesale people see the value of taking something potentially off their balance sheet and using their capital for their main core business rather than a specialist technology.
So I think you have a point there.
But I'm not sure if it's the IPO being public or not.
I just think that outsourcing comes in waves and shifts and now perhaps because of the weaker economy it's shifted towards outsourcing.
The next question comes from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
This is Manny here with Michael.
Just thinking about comments that we've heard from your peers over the last couple of days on the lengthening sales cycles especially for the larger enterprise tenant.
How have you seen them in your portfolio and how do you think that kind of changes the way you think of this year and into '13 going forward? For us I'm surprised you say that because we've been saying for 1 or 2 years now that enterprise-type tenants are taking longer to make decisions.
If you look at my prepared remarks for the last 2 years we've said that.
So we continue to see Internet-type tenants grow and we have seen as we've stated in the past few years that enterprise-type tenants are historic -- are now have been taking longer to make decisions.
And you're not seeing any lengthening of that already delayed cycle? No.
Because we've said it's delayed and it continues to be delayed on the enterprise-type tenant.
But we've been saying that for a long time.
And thinking about your lease target and your commencement target for the development pipeline how should we think of those 2 numbers separately? Are they going to move sort of in tandem or do you think there will be some type of widening or shrinking gap between the 2? I'll let Mark answer that.
But let me say something before Mark goes on.
Leasing continues to be lumpy and these are estimates as to how much we're going to see.
So it's not as if we have an Excel model and are hitting the leases exactly on a straight-line type basis of x megawatts a month.
So this is our best guesstimate of what we can do by year end and I'll now let Mark.
Mark? Manny I mean our experience in the various 4 markets we're in is anywhere from 18 to 24 months for a new product in a new market and we've had success in Chicago.
We still have to prove that in New Jersey and in Santa Clara.
But when we look at the 4 assets that we're trying to lease up when we sat here at the beginning of the year we thought that we could hit that target with the goal of getting these leases signed and commenced by the end of the year that would make '13 look pretty good.
So I think that there's certain guys who come along and say I need the space and I'd like to have the keys tomorrow and they sign the lease and move in.
And there's other guys who are planning into next year who would sign a lease and say "I want to commence the date on December 1 on 1/1/13." And they sometimes stagger that they grab a bunch of space.
I mean we're focused on both.
Getting these as executed is priority 1.
And then the commencement date we obviously like it sooner than later.
The next question comes from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to run through if you could maybe rank your markets where you're seeing at the margin the greatest level of demand relative to supply with the best fundamental dynamics today? Sure.
I mean for us we see Virginia as our top market.
Then very close is Chicago.
Next would be Santa Clara and then New Jersey which is historically has typically been that way always for us and that Chicago for the last year or so Chicago and Virginia have been Item #1 or #2 markets for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's subsequent to the deals that you signed in the quarter right? I mean obviously you signed quite a bit of leases at the beginning of the quarter but that you've already factored that in.
And when you say Virginia is your top market you're saying there's still incremental demand well above supply that makes Virginia the best market today prospectively? For us that's the case.
Chicago and Virginia are the markets that we speak of our best markets before and after the leasing business comes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And our friends at Digital Realty yesterday were on their call.
They indicated that demand in the New York New Jersey metro was up from 41 megawatts last quarter to 47 megawatts today and that's up from 31 megawatts in January.
So they're seeing north of a 50% acceleration in demand since January in the New York New Jersey metro in financial services.
Are you seeing that same...
I'm not sure if we track it the same way as they do.
So I really can't comment on that.
The only thing I can say is the New York New Jersey market many of those tenants that are tracked are also considering doing their own.
And so where the demand in Virginia and Chicago is more like where do we go and outsource.
So I guess the probability of some of those tenants finally deciding to do their own is higher in Jersey.
And they take longer to make decisions because they're major -- a lot of them could be major Wall Street banks.
Now having said that we're confident about the New Jersey market.
I'm optimistic about these Internet-type tenants that are looking out there and we feel we have the best products in -- outside the biggest cities in the U.S.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And just as a follow up can you maybe just discuss your view of connectivity and that as a driver of demand? And what if anything you may look to do in the future or are doing currently to try and drive greater connectivity at your facilities? I mean we hired a couple of years ago the head of carrier relations for us and he's been very successful in bringing in different type of fiber carriers into all of our data centers.
We have interconnections between our carriers in all our data centers.
For example in New Jersey we have a direct line not only to the New York Stock Exchange but we have now connectivity to a direct line that goes to the landing station straight to Europe.
So I think the better connectivity the more appealing a data center becomes for a set of the users.
So connectivity is application-dependent.
Some tenants may only want 1 or 2 carriers other tenants may want multiple carriers.
So I think having better connectivity helps for a subset of carriers.
And to appeal to that subset which is not necessarily the biggest megawatt-type subset like for example we don't have this tenant but a constant delivery-type tenant may not be a huge user in terms of megawatts but they would want -- they may only want 1 or 2 megawatts of demand but they absolutely need a huge amount of connectivity.
Now a cloud player that is reselling public cloud may only care about 2 or 3 carriers.
So -- but a cloud player may be a 10-megawatt of demand.
So incrementally connectivity is important to a subset of tenants and over -- it takes time to bring in various carriers and we're actively working on it and we've had huge success in getting them in it.
And frankly for a lot of our carriers we charge almost nothing to be in our data centers and we have not really been charging for inter-connectivity between our tenants which gives us more value in our tenants being there and potentially paying higher rent.
Research Division</strong> You're offering in essence a service for free that others are charging? Well the retail players are charging for it.
Yes that's correct.
The next question comes from Rob Stevenson from Macquarie.
Hossein given your comments about New Jersey power cost today and historical can you hit your other 3 markets and tell us where power costs are today versus historicals? Yes.
I mean Virginia is a regulated market.
So it seems it hasn't really moved.
It's anywhere between $0.06 to $0.065 and it's a regulated market.
That market has not moved.
Chicago has dropped significantly mostly because of the demise of the -- of its various industries in the Midwest and has come down from like 3 4 years ago from like $0.07 $0.075 $0.08.
I mean I've even seen it down to $0.05 a kilowatt.
Santa Clara is controlled by Silicon Valley Power.
And that also is not a market that fluctuates a lot.
And I want to say that it's about $0.09 a kilowatt and has not really moved much.
Okay.
And then given the fact that ACC6 I is 83% leased and II is 67% pre-leased I mean how much additional demand do you need to see to kick off development of ACC7? And then how aggressively are you guys pursuing land in Chicago given your comments about the health of that market? I'll start with the ACCs.
We also have about 5.6 megawatts of VA3 pre-leased so we want to see good penetration into both the Ashburn campus under VA3 data center before hitting off ACC7.
But having said that if we get a big pre-lease on ACC7 which is also possible we could hit it off.
Like a 5 to 10 megawatt pre-lease then we could get going on.
So what we've done historically with the super wholesale we've done 8 10 megawatts with a couple of tenants.
And you could suddenly see 18 megawatts and then we hit it off.
So it depends on pre-leasing and the deal flow on ACCs and VA3.
In Chicago on and off we are looking.
We have disclosed in the past that one of our tenants has the right to give up 2.6 megawatts in that market.
So we are not -- it's all our markets especially Chicago we're constantly looking for new sites.
But the position we're in is that there is a lot of available warehouse space in that market.
So it's not like some of the other markets that's going to be really tough to find.
The next question comes from Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
A couple of questions.
One is can you update us on headcount in the business and I'm wondering if there's any areas where there are sales or operations where there's been any kind of fluctuation one way or the other? As well I wondered if you could update us on your willingness to potentially do a greenfield build in a new market such as Oregon? Okay Jonathan.
I'll attack the first question.
We have less than 100 full-time employees.
That's up a little bit from where we were a year ago.
We've hired a couple of additional sales folks to help us in a couple of markets.
But it's 1 or 2 from a headcount perspective.
Operationally we continue to hire as we open new buildings or new phases.
So that grows accordingly and probably over 50 employees are operational.
Other that 90 95 people that we have.
And as you remember and appreciate the triple-net lease models so the guys who work on site are all part of that triple-net lease model.
And then I think your second question was greenfield locations new markets.
I think it's really a function of potentially pre-leasing in hand before we go.
But maybe Hossein you want to comment? Yes.
I think we are looking we said for a while.
We'd look at greenfield sites I think we have mentioned in the past that the Pacific Northwest we have some interest in.
And eventually we'll do something there and having a pre-lease in hand would certainly help getting that started.
The next question comes from Jonathan A.
Schildkraut from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> This is Robert Gutman in for Jonathan.
A couple of questions.
Does the hitting the low end of the guidance you don't need any new commencements.
Does that include the third quarter scheduled commencement? Yes it does.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what is your commencement backlog? I think there is 1 in Q4 and 1 in '13.
So it's really if you look at our 1 operational table in our press release the 2 columns there's a couple of rooms at in Chicago.
Research Division</strong> Size or how many megawatts? I think it's 2.6 megawatts in size.
It's roughly -- in New Jersey it's even the ACC6 for 1 lease that hasn't commenced yet that will start in Q3.
The Santa Clara's it's commenced lease for the same.
And then the rooms in Chicago was 79% leased 57% as of 6/30.
But one of the leases has already commenced here in July.
So there are 64.
So to get from 64 to 79 is really I think 1 in Q4 1 next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last thing with the attractive characteristics of the New Jersey facility would you consider going down a similar path like Digital Realty has into smaller fit footprint Colo? I think what we said about 18 months ago is that we would be going to 250 kilowatts.
And I'm not sure if we signed 1 deal of that.
Yes we did sign 1 deal of that some.
But beyond that I think it's -- we feel like we have a reseller that net2EZ that's in that building and we'd like them to take on those smaller tenants.
The next question comes from Tayo Okusanya from  Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hossein can you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing in regards to pricing trends in the market at this point? And is there any kind of inflection point in any of your major markets? Well as you know we've discussed in the past that I think we've stated 3 quarters ago that we feel that there were some anomalies in the Santa Clara market and we lowered our expected return on Santa Clara.
But beyond Santa Clara the other like 1-megawatt deals we're seeing is allowing us to get the return that we stated in our financials except for the super wholesale deals which are 8 megawatts and above.
On ACC6 even though we've got super wholesale deals in there there are 2 very large super wholesale deals with the smaller tenant within the building kind of I hate to call them moms-and-pops but the smaller footprint-type tenants with a higher rent were still able to hit the 12% on the return on a GAAP basis on ACC6.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
With any of the anomalies you're talking about in Santa Clara has any of that kind of slowed down or...
No.
I mean what we did say is the private player who caused kind of the market to ripple as you would call it they're essentially not building any more space.
Like I would think that's what I understand my latest intelligence.
So I think the market you'd think normalize but we haven't seen that yet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it okay.
And then again along the lines of a prior question the interest in moving into a new market domestically or internationally how should we think about that and what likely markets  would they be? I think we are again interested in the Pacific Northwest.
We have been interested in London and Europe for a while.
We've been looking for a number of years.
Certainly having a pre-lease in hand would aid going into a new market.
The other thing where we would look at it is how leased up we are on our development portfolio in aggregate before we go into a new market so we would consider all those factors above.
The next question comes from Lukas Hartwich from Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one for me.
What's the annual operating expense for each of your unstabilized properties? I think they run anywhere from $6 million to $7 million in OpEx.
But what we've been pretty good at over the last 6 months is to pay attention to what OpEx needs to be spent.
So I think the operating guys have done a good job in obviously attempting to keep the building and the lights on but to maintain the existing tenants and take care of them but not go crazy with OpEx expenses.
So I think at the beginning of the year about what the effect was for the unreimbursed OpEx and it continues to drop off as we lease the rooms up.
I think one way to look at it in a more granular number is OpEx runs depending on the jurisdiction anywhere between $22 and $30 per available kilowatt per month for on average on the data center.
So you can do the math there based on an 18-megawatt facility that's empty or 18-megawatt facility that's full.
Typically the rent around 25% leased covers the OpEx.
[Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Michael Bilerman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Hossein you talked in the opening comments just about obviously the volume of leases you signed to date and the amount you've commenced and compared it to the last few years and clearly the amount that you've already completed has been significant.
And I'm just curious as sort of what's in the funnel today in terms of activity and maybe you can talk a little bit about how much volume is there right now that's closer to the goal line versus more prospecting activity? Just to give a little bit more of a sense on sort of current demand levels that would be helpful.
Well I can't go into any letters of intent or anything that we have signed or have not signed.
I think the -- I do want to say leasing remains lumpy.
It is a best guess as to how much we're going to do by year end.
It is not a -- they're certainly not in the bag as I would say.
These are deals that we actively need to work on to get done.
We think that we have done a significant amount of leasing way more than any year.
But I feel like we have more work to do so I would not call our pipeline in the bag.
It's deals that we have to work and get done.
But we feel confident and optimistic that we'll get to the projections where Mark stated we have 70% of leasing in our development portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And that requires another 7 megawatts of leasing to be done which -- I'm just trying to get a sense of clearly the demand that you may be tracking in Santa Clara and New Jersey in terms of exceeding that target.
I mean there is.
We really really don't want to get go down that path.
There are anomalies that happened like for example you could potentially get a big Internet tenant that wants a big amount of space in New Jersey and we're seeing activity.
But it's nothing that I would say you should put in your numbers and model.
We're always surprised by how the Internet grows.
But the projection we've laid out is where with hard work we feel like we would get there.
But even our projections I would say are not necessarily in the bag.
They're not signed deals.
We have to get them.
Research Division</strong> I'm glad you still showed up to work this quarter to be able to increase the guidance a little.
Well that's good.
yes.
Research Division</strong> What's been the activity like on VA3 in terms of re-leasing that space and what's your thought process there in terms of ...
I don't think we've said in the last quarter we're getting plans approved to redo the -- the building's lobby needs help.
And we've designed a new lobby for that area to make it show better.
I mean at the moment when we bought the building and it was our first data center that we purchased the lobby that the [indiscernible] originally planned never got built.
So we're redesigning that and we're spending about $1 million improving giving it a little bit of a facelift.
But long-term it's a very very valuable building.
It's lower density there.
It's lower density.
And it fits on Sunrise Valley Drive which is probably the most fiber-dense road in the entire country.
So we're optimistic that long term we'll do very well there.
It's very well-suited for resellers and I'm confident that we'll lease it up and we have a couple of Internet tenant-type tenants that are looking at it.
But again we'd -- like you said we have to be at work and get it done.
It's not in the bag but we feel good about it.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly Mark you talked about obviously the free cash flow that you're generating by keeping the dividend where it is that's helping you fund the developments and I think you said that you draw about $20 million at the end of the year on the revolver which you don't have anything drawn so that's good capital to have.
I guess how do you sort of think cap structure-wise your preferreds are obviously trading well relative to the coupon and they're just a little bit north of 7%.
Do you think about other sort of financings to later this year at all? We think about it every day.
We are paying attention as well.
The preferred market is pretty healthy right now and I get lots of phone calls on doing something.
But I think we're trying to be prudent.
We want to match it up with what we're thinking of doing in the next 12 to 18 months.
But permanent capital at 7% is a pretty good number for us.
So we're kind of steady as she goes until we see some more leasing and then from a structure perspective we think we should absorb some more preferreds.
We want to keep the leverage low we want to keep the debt maturities pushed out.
So we have a huge opportunity when you think about 2014 with regards to our bonds.
They're 8.5% coupon bonds we have a 4-year noncall which is December of '13.
So you start thinking of what '14 could look like if we replace those $550 million at 8.5% and get it down maybe in the low 6s or at 6.
It's a big number with a 4.25 takeout.
So that's absolutely in our radar but we wanted to maintain low leverage with minimal debt maturities.
The other thing we feel very good about is Mark's hard work in getting the line increased to $225 million where it was $100 million we couldn't build an 18-megawatt data center with that.
Now at that number even if the markets go away and we have some amount of big pre-leasing our line gives us the ability to put out 18-megawatt data center without any additional -- even if the markets are closed.
And then replacing that money with the preferred once it's done.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Would you have -- if you have to take up the unsecured bonds early is there a big May call on those? I think it's 4.25.
So we're going to pay 4.25 points.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So it may not be worth it to...
But the 250 basis points on $550 million it's a math exercise but yes we're looking at that.
But most importantly we won't start a new development that we can't finish without the line in place or the capital in place.
So we won't if markets freeze than we still can finish what we're focused on.
As there are no more questions at the present time I would turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may now disconnect your phone lines.
Thank you for participating and have a nice day.
Welcome to the DuPont Fabros Technology's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager for the company.
Mr.
Warnke please begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's Third Quarter 2012 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release which is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be limited to 2 per caller.
If you have additional questions please feel free to return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our third quarter 2012 earnings call.
As noted in our press release we again delivered solid financial results as Mark will discuss later in the call.
Leasing remains our first priority so I'd like to begin with an update.
During the third quarter we signed 2 new leases with 1 existing Internet hub.
One lease was for 2.2 megawatts in Phase I of ACC6.
This phase is now 100% leased within 1 year of delivering the property.
The second lease was for 1.3 megawatts in Phase II of Chicago increasing it to 86% leased after delivering the property 8 months ago.
As we have seen in the past our tenant requirements grow.
It's taken down additional space within our facilities.
Over 50% of our 33 existing tenants have expanded with us.
In terms of megawatts this expansion represents approximately 70% of our operating portfolio.
In addition to the new leasing this quarter we have extended full leases with 3 tenants totaling approximately 24 megawatts.
This represents an additional 7.5 years on a weighted average basis.
The first tenant extended their lease for 13.9 megawatts in ACC3.
This extends their weighted average remaining lease term for 4.4 years to 12.6 years.
The second tenant extended 2 leases one for 3.9 megawatts in CH1 and the second tenant for 3.4 megawatts in ACC5.
These extended the weighted average remaining term for 4.1 years to 11.1 years.
The third tenant extended their lease for 2.6 megawatts at VA3.
This extends their weighted average remaining lease term from 9 months to 6.3 years.
On average the current extensions for these 3 tenants have reduced gap rent by 6% as compared to the existing base rents in place.
This equates to only $0.02 per share reduction in FFO on an annualized basis.
The reduction in cash rents only kicks in when the original leases expire.
All of these tenants have the capital and the size to build their own data centers.
A big part of our business proposition is having our tenants utilize our buildings scale and efficiency to reduce our overall operating capacity.
We have consistently worked with our tenants to provide them with exceptional outsourcing solutions and have significant success in the past year in extending their leases.
Santa Clara remains well in line with our leasing expectations.
Decision-making in New Jersey is taking longer than expected for most enterprise companies.
Even though some are taking up significant cash reserves we're still tracking more than that supply in New Jersey.
Chicago and Northern Virginia continue to be very strong markets.
We have some available supply in each which we are actively working on filling up.
Safety of  ACC6 is currently 67% pre-leased.
It remains on time and under budget for the December 2012 delivery.
We have already began commissioning this site [ph].
As previously stated on our February earnings call our goal was to have NJ1 SC1 ACC6 Phase I and Chicago Phase II to be 70% pre-leased on average by year end.
To date these 4 properties are on average 64% leased and 60% commenced.
We remain comfortable our target of 70% is achievable.
This represents about 4 megawatts leased and 7 megawatts to commence.
Year-to-date we have leasing of 28 megawatts at lease extensions of 24 megawatts.
These account for approximately 25% of our total portfolio.
We have pushed out lease expansions.
Now 85% of our leases expire after January 2017.
Our overall portfolio weighted average remaining lease term is now 7.5 years compared to 6.7 years at June 30.
Our top 3 tenants' weighted average remaining lease term is now 7.9 years compared to 6.8 years at June 30.
This has been our best leasing year since we have began.
I have consistently said leasing wholesale data center space is lumpy.
Decision-making continues to lag in New Jersey.
The macroeconomic environment remains uncertain which has accounted for some enterprise and financial institutions delaying their data center decisions.
Additionally having available supply in certain markets enables companies to take their time in deciding on whether to build internally or to outsource.
We firmly believe in the macro fundamentals of outsourcing data center space.
We have a great product and a superb operating platform for capturing this process.
Leasing our available inventory continues to be everyone's focus.
We have done a significant amount of leasing as we're renewing leases this year.
That being said we have plenty of work ahead of us.
We're confident that there is an adequate demand in all our markets to pre-lease our inventory while maintaining favorable terms for the company and achieving a solid return to our shareholders.
Now I will turn the call over to Mark who will take you through our financial results.
Thank you Hossein.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
I want to cover 3 main topics today.
Our third quarter operating results our Q4 and full year 2012 guidance and a quick comment on the 2013 guidance.
For the third quarter of 2012 the company's FFO was $0.38 per share compared to $0.44 per share in the third quarter of 2011.
The $0.06 per share decrease was primarily due to lower capitalized interest and increased preferred dividends.
We did record a real estate tax true-up which is an approximate $0.01 decrease in FFO no recoveries in Q3.
The real estate tax and insurance line item should normalize back to approximately $3 million going forward.
Quarterly revenues were $85 million an increase of $12 million or 16% over the third quarter of 2011.
This increase is a result of new lease commencements.
FFO was $0.33 per share for the third quarter compared to $0.37 per share quarter-over-quarter a decrease of $0.04 per share.
Year-to-date AFFO was actually up $0.01 per share to $0.93 per share as compared to $0.92 per share last year due to higher cash rents collected.
During the third quarter 4 leases commenced holding 5.9 megawatts resulting in increased revenues of 3% from $83 million to $85 million sequentially.
All leases signed have commenced except for 2 in Chicago.
As a reminder this tenant has a right to terminate this lease in early January.
If not they commence in Q1 of 2013.
As to the forward note Hossein discussed on a cash basis base rents -- the initial base rents are down approximately 18% compared to today's rents.
Key points to note were that there are no brokers involved no free rent provided no capital committed to close any of these deals and there were no downtime re-leasing the space.
These 4 leases remain pure triple net leases where each tenant pays a percentage share of the operating expenses.
They trust us to manage the expenses and there is no cap.
Cash on-hand today stands at approximately $25 million.
We have drawn $15 million on our unsecured $225 million line.
We expect to spend an additional $15 million by year end and another $15 million in early 2013 to fully fund the completion of the ACC6 Phase II development.
We've tightened our full year FFO guidance from $1.47 to $1.54 per share to $1.48 to $1.52 per share.
The bottom end of the new guidance represents no additional leases signed and commenced in 2012.
Our FFO guidance range for the fourth quarter of 2012 is $0.38 to $0.42 per share.
As we look at our 2013 guidance new leasing commencements by quarter will drive how big a year-over-year increase we can achieve.
ACC6 Phase II should open January 1 with 33% pre-leased commencing immediately and 34% commencing in Q3 of 2013.
We expect total revenues to be in the range of $360 million to $400 million.
The $360 million assumes no new leasing as of today.
We expect similar EBITDA margins.
As leases commence we also get the pickup of unreimbursed operating costs.
As for possible capital raise we continue to like perpetual preferred stock as a source of permanent capital.
We do like to keep our line of credit fully available as dry powder.
We would expect to start at least one development in 2013.
But at this point everything is predicated on leasing up our available inventory.
We look at each submarket separately as to this decision process as well as the overall risk for the company.
Pre-leasing thus makes this decision easier.
AFFO is expected to grow faster than FFO in 2013 and we expect our Board of Directors will consider a common stock dividend increase in the not-too-distant future.
By keeping to our policy of paying out 100% of taxable income for each year we expect the dividend will increase 20% by the beginning of 2013.
No 2013 common equity ratio will be modeled.
We will provide all the details and all per-share amounts on our year end call.
This call will be held on Wednesday February 6 2013.
We will continue to operate with low leverage ensure our debt and leasing maturities are pushed out and maintain a strong balance sheet.
We are in a great position to grow the company.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
We continue to see more and more businesses looking to outsource their data center requirements.
We are very pleased that we have been able to continue to extend our leases and our leasing activity.
The fundamentals of our industry remains intact.
With that we're happy to open the call up to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to circle back on sort of the flavor of the markets.
I mean clearly a bunch of renewal activity in the quarter new leasing some small activity coming off of a big 2Q.
But the commentary sort of alludes to maybe continued success on that front with the exception of New Jersey.
Can you give us a little bit more color on what you're seeing in terms of types of requirements and maybe what the difference is -- or what may be driving the acceleration in the activity? I mean each market is their own.
Virginia and Chicago again remain very strong and there is significant amount of tours and leasing going on.
In Virginia most of the activity here was the renewals and the extension of those leases.
But like I said we gave away some cash ramps to get the expansions.
We felt that was important to do to keep our long-term tenants.
Chicago is very steady.
We leased more space.
Again after 8 months of opening we're 86% leased.
We to some extent I wish that we have more space in Chicago.
Santa Clara is very steady.
We have a huge amount of activity going on in Santa Clara.
We're pretty much intact where we expect it to be at this point.
And I think with the amount of activity we have I think that will be exactly as we predicted on our leasing front.
Research Division</strong> Do you think Santa Clara will be fully leased by mid year next year? Because I think...
Yes we're comfortable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on New Jersey I mean it sounds like enterprises are taking longer...
They're taking their time making decisions.
I think we'll have some leasing going on but it's taking longer than we expected.
It's the one market that's taking longer than we expected.
But it's a very good product.
We're comfortable with what we've built and just like historically it's going to be -- it's taking longer than we expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lastly can you just sort of give us a sense of what happens to cash rent on these leases that you gave up some cash rent to get the extensions some modifications that we're all -- are we going to see any cash rent in 2012 '13 or is it...
I'll turn it over to Mark and Mark will address the cash rents.
Research Division</strong> And if you have the cash rent roll down number that'd be great.
Yes Jordan in my prepared comment I made roughly an 18% reduction in cash rents as compared to today.
Nothing really changes.
One of the leases will expire next summer.
So there's immaterial amounts for 2013.
So '13 there's really no issues.
And then as some of these renewals were kicking in some were -- didn't start till '16 so you'll see the step down.
I think we have about 12 different lease expiration dates on all these -- on these 4 leases.
So it's really nothing to '13.
And then as it leads itself in over the next 5 years today's rents versus the day that each of those rooms expire is roughly an 18% reduction.
But most importantly there's no free rent there's no capital there's no broker fees there's no downtime.
So it continues through the end of these new extended lease terms.
Research Division</strong> And the extensions have the bumps that were embedded in the old leases 3%? Pretty much.
The bumps are pretty much the same yes.
Our next question comes from Matt Leone [ph] of Goldman Sachs.
I just had a couple of questions about the extensions.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the thought process behind renewing rents down 18% 3 to 5 years early.
So there were 3 tenants here.
Who initiated these discussions? I think the same tenants were talking about taking more space down.
And so as it happens when they talk about taking more space down we start discussing their old leases.
So we talked about their old leases and we said or they said "We'd like to renew " and we said "How long for?" Discussions were kind of hard at that time.
And we addressed what -- I think we could have left it alone if we wanted it.
But we thought it was important for the market to see that our larger tenants are not leaving and that we can be competitive with even the biggest companies and the industry building their own and outsourcing and maintaining the tenants.
So is it more of an issue of whether you were going to have the tenants or not in 2015 and 2017 than of where rents would be at that point? I think that's a fair statement.
But we wanted to guarantee that we have the tenants.
And especially with single tenant buildings it was important for us to review those leases.
We went whatever it took to renew the leases.
Our next question comes from Emmanuel Korchman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> It's Michael Bilerman here with Manny.
Just on the 18% that is compared to the current cash rents that are in place or the down 18% is relative to when the -- what the cash rent would have been as it grows 3% through 2015 and '17? The 18% is as of today Mike.
Research Division</strong> So the actual cash decline in rent relative to new lease to the existing lease is going to be much much less because your leases are growing 3% a year for the next 3 to 4 years on those leases correct? Yes.
Between now -- when those lease expires there's bumps between now and then as well.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
So what would be the cash decline -- the new cash starting rent for the new lease relative to the final cash rent that was being paid or that will be paid under these leases? Because if it's growing 3% a year and it's down 18% relative today that will mean that it's pretty pretty small of a decline? Yes.
It's around 25% at that point.
Research Division</strong> 25% decline at that point relative to today.
It should be smaller shouldn't it? Because if you're signing it then -- because the current cash rents are growing further? So the 18% is where we're at today with today's rents as compared to the new rents and then it's in the mid-20s when you get to the cash rent at the day of the renewal to the new renewal.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
Right.
Because if we're growing -- your rents are growing every year between now and then? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then how do those rents compare therefore relative to markets? Because I would assume a 25% drop relative to where those rents are today what you're signing new because you're active in Chicago and you're active in Virginia.
How do those rents compare to what you're developing and what the rents are for ACC6? Are you going to be developing ACC7? How does -- what's that spread? Yes I was going to say that those rents are super -- there were 3 leases that were renewed -- well 4 leases that were renewed with 3 different tenants and each one is different.
The very large one is in the market -- is within market of super wholesale rent.
So by giving them these reductions in what in 4.5 or 4 years what we deem to be super wholesale rent we extended that lease by 8 years.
The other leases were within market right and the market meaning retail market meaning what we deem regular not super wholesale.
Research Division</strong> So the large single building lease where the rents step down to in 2016 that represents where you're currently signing leases today? We're currently signing leases for super wholesales not for -- not for 1-megawatt deals or 10-megawatt deals.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And I appreciate the positive side of this in terms of locking tenants up for longer and not having the CapEx no new capital and that they're also making a financial commitment to stay longer.
But how do you sort of look at it -- this represents 14% of portfolio.
How do you sort of then look at the 86% of the portfolio in terms of where those rents are relative to market? I mean should we be thinking about that rents are 25% too high relative to everything else you're earning or...
No because -- no.
I don't think so at all.
I think their market has been -- there is a difference today in super wholesale rents and typically those are tenants signing 8 megawatts or more than tenants signing 1 megawatt deals.
Research Division</strong> But the majority of your portfolio is super wholesale tenants? I would say there is a big part of our portfolio that is super wholesale tenants but there is a -- a lot of those are leases that are 3 megawatts at the time.
So those rents I would say are all within market but then the larger leases that are super wholesale would eventually I think be at lower end.
Mike as of 9/30 roughly 47% of our revenue stream is from our top 3 tenants and the issue of the lease extensions for that is pushed up pretty far at this point.
So it was a decision to lock those down put them in place and focus on the rest of this development as we go.
But the idea of super wholesale just like if you take 10 floors in an office building you're going to get better pricing.
So it's no different.
Our next question will come from Brendan Maiorana of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mark just a quick one the 18% down -- or the 25% down on a cash basis what's the gap differential on rent? It's around 6%.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's at 6%.
Okay.
$0.02 I think Hossein mentioned for...
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
The $0.02 was the gap number.
Okay.
Hossein just a broader question or maybe this is kind of related to what Michael was asking.
But if we look at the asset class the fundamentals have generally been -- the demand has generally been decent over the past few years yet rents are down pretty significantly.
They probably peaked sometime in 2009 or maybe 2010.
I mean is this -- I guess as we look at the asset class is this an asset class that where rents can grow? And can they grow in products that is second-generation 10-year-old product? I think it depends on the product.
Yes I think in our data centers which are super efficient there is not much efficiency to be gained.
On our electrical systems we only have a 5% loss of electricity on the UPS.
So there's not much to be gained.
Whether you go from 5% to 3% there's not much to be gained.
On the cooling systems we pay approximately 25% to 28% of the critical load to coolents.
So if you get down from that there's again very little efficiency to be gained.
So of that asset class on the new kind of the 36-megawatt asset I think there is very little efficiency to be had.
On the older buildings I think there is going to be a change.
On the -- as far as the rents are concerned I think what we have addressed here is that the -- with the super wholesale rents that Mark mentioned or difference by 18% we have addressed the fact that now it is worthwhile for larger tenants to renew rather than build their own.
And on a 36-megawatt building even if you have a 10-megawatt tenant renewed it is worth their while to renew because their operating expenses will significantly lower on the large buildings.
And we've addressed that twice and I think we'll continue doing that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I guess I understand that.
I mean there's -- but the rents are down right.
So the rents are down.
They're down with the market.
So what I'm reading from your comments is that your buildings are holding up in terms of their earnings power relative to new product that may be out there.
But there's -- but the new product that's out there has rents that are down pretty sharply over the past couple of years if we're just looking at these data points that you're providing today.
So why -- what are the dynamics that are going to get rent growth in this asset class over the next few years? Or is it just that new supply is likely to cause rent growth to be limited? I think rent growth is always supply and demand.
So there is -- as we have in certain markets like Ashburn and Santa Clara and in Chicago we have limited supply and we have rent growth.
In New Jersey there is more supply and less rent growth.
Brendan also specific to I mean mortgage investing in terms of what we're trying to accomplish I mean we're used to borrow money at 8.4%.
Now we -- our bonds are trading below 6%.
So there's 200 to 300 basis points explaining our cost of debt.
So yes rents are down at this stage of the cycle but so is the cost of the money we raised.
So we're still making money and we're still in the right path to build the base of the company for the market.
So I think locking down these bigger tenants pushing those maturities out now we can strategically shift and focus on growing and the cost of the money that we raise on a go-forward basis we're still -- we still have the right spread between what cost to build how to raise the money and the rents we collect.
Brendan the other important data point is when we went public 5 years ago we said to the market that our unleveraged return on our data centers is 12%.
For a couple of years that percent went to 15% in certain markets and then we are back on ACC6 right now we're at 12%.
So we're making unlevered returns of 12% on new products.
And that we're very proud of.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess just a quick point for clarification.
But the way I'm reading your comments is that you think the 12% that you're earning on the return on the initial leases that that 12% holds on the second-generation leases.
Is that a fair comment? Yes yes I do.
Because already the 12% we're getting now say if you take ACC6 that is already a super wholesale rate for 2 large tenants.
Our next question will come from Evan Smith of Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> We're hearing from some of our channel checks that the wholesale landlords are increasingly willing to sign smaller blocks of space.
I was just wondering if this is something that you're currently entertaining or what your thoughts are there? We about 1 year ago we went to New Jersey willing to sign 280 kilowatts.
We haven't done anything smaller than that.
In Virginia I believe and in Chicago and in Santa Clara we haven't done any deals of that size.
So typically there we would stop at 500 kilowatts which is half of 1 megawatt room.
So all I can comment is that we haven't -- or I guess some of our competitors have retail arms as they are doing retail deals.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just back to leasing a little bit.
You talked about that you're seeing more and more business from new customers.
However what was done in the quarter was all with existing customers.
If you could comment in terms of what you're seeing in traffic today and I guess future leasing what you're expecting to see from new tenants versus what's already in the portfolio? Well the majority -- a lot of our business had always been with a handful of tenants.
And so I do think that there are some new tenants in the market but most of the old tenants are coming back.
That's where we have organic growth.
And I think that's a strong part of our business as we have organic growth.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to thank you for the rent disclosure on those leases because I do think it was important to understanding the story.
A couple of questions.
First I think there was some mention earlier that you'd like to start one development in 2013 dependent upon your current lease up.
Which project would that be? There are a couple of things in our current portfolio and Virginia will pretty much happen and that's our home market.
And so assuming that we feel very comfortable with Virginia leasing up we need to have more products in Virginia.
The other is Chicago and is -- Chicago we have no more land and we have to look for some additional land which we do not have yet but we're almost fully leased.
In Santa Clara assuming that someone on the call earlier said that we project by middle of next year that we'll be fully leased we would need to build more.
But now we have figured out how to build in smaller increments and still have the ISO-parallel designs.
So what we would build is 9.1 megawatt or 4.5 megawatt increments for the Phase IIs in Santa Clara once the Phase I is fully leased.
And also in Virginia we would only build 9.1 megawatt increments.
We wouldn't build the 18.2 megawatt.
But we have to get going soon because we're almost out of space.
We have almost no inventory left.
Research Division</strong> And what are your thoughts for financing? I think as Mark mentioned our preferable financing for new rates is professional preferred.
Which aligns a starting point for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question I have is just a more general comment or question which is by extending out these leases now and given that some of them had several years left to run isn't that somewhat of a statement that you think that the operating environment a couple of years from now is going to be the same or worse than it is today? Because if you thought it was going to be better and you would've had better -- a better negotiating stance with these tenants you would have waited to extend these leases? I think it's somewhat addressing what the market wants.
If we were a private company Ross I wouldn't have extended the leases now.
I would've waited a few more years and negotiated at that point because I would be no worse off.
I think by addressing it now we're addressing the clarity and the certainty that the market wants.
And as a private guy I wouldn't have done it.
I think as a private -- as a public guy the market wants a certainty and there has been a lot of pieces around "Hey your biggest tenants are leaving." And now we're like "Okay well they're not leaving but they're here at these rents and we've addressed them." Research Division</strong> Great.
I recognize that.
I guess 2 thoughts.
One is your stock was flat when the call began and now it's down 8%.
So clearly the market is not liking something that occurs in the last half an hour.
But I'm starting a little bit with did some of these tenants sit down with you and say look if you don't cut the rents we're out of here whether we tell you that today or we tell you that in 2 years cut the rents or we're gone.
Is that the stance that they took? No.
No.
It was up telling them look if you want to renew let's negotiate and bring certainty to the market.
And you always have to take one at a time Ross.
The first lease was actually expiring next summer.
So the notice period was in play.
So that one we extended.
So that one you would expect to see.
The second one with the tenant who was looking to take some new space and so far the negotiations centered around the extension of what they already have because they want long-term certainty as well.
So that one got put in place.
And the third one is the one that's out there for years that you could -- you could check investors [ph] of not doing that.
But locking that in the certainty of that a single tenant building it just made sense to us to do that.
And it was us really approaching that tenant.
It wasn't the tenant approaching us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question New Jersey and I know this is a question you've gotten before.
Does reducing the rents helped get that leased? Or is there just simply a lack of traffic at any price at this point? I think New Jersey -- I think data center space in general is guys need it or they don't.
It's not like "Oh I need another home." It's like either need it or they don't.
If they need it they'll look at what's available and lease it or they don't or they're not looking.
So my impression in New Jersey is not so price-sensitive and so we haven't had to cut cost.
So we're -- cutting cost will not lease us up any faster in New Jersey.
But the positive point is in the other markets.
In Virginia we're getting 12% unlevered returns which is excellent in my view.
Our next question will come from Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> This is Robert Gutman for Jonathan.
I was wondering guys if you could tell us what are your views on new market entry and what would it require in terms of a pre-lease and kind of how would you view that in terms of financing as well? Well you mean us going into new markets? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes.
No.
We will not go into any market on a secular basis.
We would on a base premium.
We would not go in and build recklessly in new markets because -- or the other thing is we want -- we would want to have a current portfolio significantly more leased which we're getting there before we do anything.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
But at what point would you consider it in terms of if you reach your 70% threshold or...
Depending on the market I don't know.
What -- the 70% threshold we're very comfortable in reaching by year end.
We see that very comfortable.
At some point as you may say for example the market assuming we get there and we're comfortable in getting there at that point with the pre-lease we would go into a new market.
But the launch of the next development is one of the phases that we have whether it be Santa Clara or New Jersey more likely Santa Clara and then the backyard right here in Virginia.
So when you say new market that would be a fifth market for us and that's where I think Hossein is making the clarity that a big pre-lease would be kind of needed to do that.
But building 4 megawatts or 9 megawatts kind of Phase II or next door in the Ashburn campus I think we probably -- we're comfortable on a spec basis in our home markets.
But the new market is a different analysis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that would be a pre-lease would you say.
What would you consider a large pre-lease? 50%? 25%? Any sort of general idea or...
I think at this point the -- we have figured out on the ISO-parallel rev up to build it in increments meaning we could build 4.5 megawatts at a time.
Research Division</strong> I mean on the -- on something that will be non-spec new market.
Yes so I guess what I'm saying is say for example eventually you want to get to a 26-megawatt building.
Even if the tenant is say 9 megawatts you would -- you could think about building 13 megawatts.
You don't need to build the entire 26 because so then you build 13 and out of the 13 9 will be leased pre-lease.
Because now we can build it in 4.5-megawatt increments.
Our next question will come from Gerry Andea [ph] of Le Monde Capital [ph].
Question on New Jersey I'm still trying to understand on one hand you say the foot traffic is great.
But here we're almost 2 years since the data center has been launched.
It's only 36% leased.
Is the wholesale -- demand for wholesale capacity completely dried up? Because if you look at the retail guys they still seem to enjoy pretty good demand in the New York-New Jersey area.
So I'm just trying to understand what exactly is going on with the data centers.
Well I think it's not our data centers.
I think the New Jersey market on wholesale is slower than the rest of the country.
In Virginia we have great -- I mean don't forget it's when you say our data centers in Virginia we're delivering a building on Phase II and the Phase II of the building with 12% unlevered return is 67% pre-leased and we're delivering it.
No I understand that Hossein.
But I'm just trying to understand New Jersey.
What specifically is happening in the New Jersey market? Because I don't...
[indiscernible] in the last 2 years that that market is slower and decision-making is slower.
There are not that many large wholesale deals out there in Jersey and the banks are slower to make decisions.
Got it.
If that is the case would you kind of start doing something else with those data centers going forward? Well there's only one base kind of we have in New Jersey.
But those is full so what do you mean? When I say it's a relatively large data center would you consider doing something else with it? No absolutely not.
It's going to be tough but it's just going to take some time to lease up.
I mean there is no alternative use.
Got it.
Second going back to the rental rates.
You have given this 18% discount.
As Mark is saying if you have to extend for that next 3 years it's almost a 25% discount of what you would have got 3 years from now.
I'm still trying to understand are you just going back to these guys and saying hey you extend that so that you would be in good standing with your bank going forward? Hey look none of our large customers are leaving.
We have extended this but it's coming at a cost.
Why do you have to give a discount in fact that those guys that are already there? You have those leased up for the next 3 years.
What is the real urgency? I'm just ...
There was no urgency.
We had an opportunity to extend at a lower rate and leases are coming up in 3 years.
And we said okay let's do it.
It addresses a thesis that people are leaving.
Now we know where we're at and people are not leaving.
But are they taking more capacity because you offered the discount? Or is it exactly the same amount of space? Some of the tenants are taking more capacity as well.
Yes 1 of those 3 tenants took more capacity.
Those were the leases that were signed during the quarter.
Our next question will come from David Shamis of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just turning back to New Jersey.
You essentially -- what's your confidence that those leases are going to come from financial services firms? Are you getting traction from maybe some tenants moving out of 111 8th Avenue? No.
I think what we feel good about Jersey is some financial services also because of what's happening in the energy market power costs are down significantly in New Jersey.
So what used to cost like $0.12 $0.13 per kilowatt is now $0.08 or $0.09 per kilowatt in New Jersey.
So New Jersey is actually becoming an attractive market for Internet-type tenants.
So we feel very good about the Internet companies that some of the traffic is coming through in New Jersey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
How should we be thinking about the recent announcement by Goldman to move to modular data centers? I think -- I don't know the details of that deal but I could feel that that's probably a very small deal.
Don't forget modular typically is 800 kilowatts.
Or it starts with 250 kilowatt increments and it goes to 800.
So I think there is more noise in slots than reality there.
So not knowing the details of that deal long term I do not feel that modular is the solution.
There is absolutely an application for modular data center but I don't think it's a solution for large companies that want to build -- that need their own data center.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Appreciate that.
And just one more.
Going back to the lease extensions what kind of yields does that imply? Is that the 12% unlevered that you were talking about before? In what market? Inc.
Research Division</strong> The extensions that you did? Well the extensions were in 4 different buildings.
So I think as you look at each building we're pretty comfortable that the Chicago building is right where we said it was previously 12%.
The ACC5 building was actually north of that.
There's only a couple of rooms taken there.
The VA3 building as you know is roughly 50-plus percent leased.
We still have some vacancy to fill that building up.
So those were the original building -- that was an original building from the IPO.
So those returns are -- if you benchmark off of what we paid to build -- buy the building versus the gap step up with the IPO we look pretty good.
And it's much higher than 12% because we didn't pay much to buy that building.
Yes.
And the same with the ACC3 building a pre-IPO building.
Those returns honestly are north of 15% if you look at the cost to build that building not necessarily the book value.
So as a reminder that is something that we deal with with our book balance sheet.
A lot of these older buildings got stepped up.
And so that -- what we paid from a cost perspective and where we're at is -- there is a difference.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question will come from Chandler Spears of Davis Fund.
Inc.</strong> Hossein Mark I have a quick question for you.
I can appreciate your comments on the cost of debt to capital and cost of preferred capital because I sit here and I look at your stock price your common equity and think about the history of the volatility in the stock at least over the past couple of years.
And then I also consider your incremental use of capital and I heard the comment about using preferred for incremental investment.
I can't help but think that your weighted average cost to capital is going up not down.
And keep in mind my personal opinion is that preferred market window will eventually close when the yield preferences by a lot of investors starts to wane that's going to go away.
So as I think about the future of this business how can you tell me that you think your cost to capital is coming down when I look at the cost of your common equities clearly going up? Does that question makes sense? Or is that an unfair question? Well I think it's -- Chandler we focus in on the cost of the debt because that's how we're planning to grow the company.
And debt and preferred I guess we'll put in the same bucket even though it's preferred stock.
Whether we borrow at 5% 6% secured loans or even cheaper than that we've kept the low levels secured.
The preferreds 6.5% to 7% and the unsecured bonds obviously are inside that.
So the idea of -- it's a fair amount just look at the stock price too.
But I think as we look at the spread between what we're building at and what we can borrow at to grow it and yet holding it pretty steady I mean the volatility of the stock price we can't control that.
All we can do is focus on the business and that's what we're trying to do.
Inc.</strong> Right.
No I appreciate that.
But as a long-time investor in DuPont Fabros I mean there's certainly some -- and I agree that leasing is lumpy and I understand that.
But at some point you're going to have to come back to investors and you're going to have to show a history of good decision-making which you have done.
But the communication and -- sorry let me recap that.
As an investor it's very hard to know what's going on at the micro level with these data centers.
And in the absence of that we place a great deal of reliance on management to be very clear about how leasing is going.
And my perception is that that you guys are not doing the best job of helping us understand something that we don't understand as well as you.
And that's being strongly telegraphed in the stock price performance at least this year and certainly the reactions that we see quarter-to-quarter from your announcements.
And I'm not saying it's fair.
But like I said at some point you're going to have to balance -- you're going to have to -- your balance sheet is going to have to have some component of common equity because you're not private.
And it's just as -- like I said it's frustrating to see this kind of volatility in something that we think has a great deal of value.
So I think it's incumbent upon you to figure out where the communication breakdown is going on.
And unfortunately I don't have a great answer for you now which I did.
I think Chandler -- I mean the space in general doesn't have a lot of independent data points that you as an investor can look at.
I mean the brokerage community is not involved with most of our deals.
So if you're talking to brokerage community about deal flow they don't see most of them.
In terms of what is the true supply in the marketplace and is it a company that's always in-source looking to outsource you don't know that and most investors don't.
So it's something that Jo Dill [ph] has done.
It's hard to talk about it.
As far as the cost of capital your original question we went out at 8.5% on our unsecured bonds.
They're now trading less than that.
Our perpetual preferreds we feel we were at the high thousands.
We feel that now we would be able to get them lower than 7%.
So...
Inc.</strong> Yes I completely agree with that and -- but look...
[indiscernible] where it's not done the equity does what it does and we'll try harder to better communicate where rents are at and I think we did that today in where we're leasing.
So I'm not sure.
We'll think about it and try to communicate better.
Inc.</strong> I agree but just keep in mind one thing.
This is an abnormal interest rate environment that I hope none of us ever have to revisit.
I don't believe for a second that you can contemplate the current level of interest rates in the bond market or the preferred market and expend you in perpetuity.
Well I think when interest rates go up returns will need to go up to match that.
So when companies build their own bill have their own cause of debt and we're an outsourcing solution for good or for worse.
And the returns will have to mimic the cost of capital of the company that's trying to build their own.
Inc.</strong> Right.
Exactly.
And then -- and to the point earlier on the call I mean if you're now building to a 12% one would hope as interest rates go up that 12% goes back out to 15% whatever.
15% exactly.
The 12% may have to be a 15% at that point.
Our next question is a follow-up from Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up regarding sort of the lease up or lease renewal to some existing tenants and the sort of handful of large tenants that you have in your portfolio.
Any -- given sort of the significance of the roll down here it seems that there's a lot of control or leverage in the hands of the handful of super wholesale tenants.
Any thoughts regarding diversifying the tenant base? I think we'll obviously sign leases with creditworthy tenants whenever we can.
There are...
Research Division</strong> Because I mean as -- I mean that as a focus or a concerted effort and strategy to limit or reduce the leverage as opposed to signing with somebody who wants to sign with you right.
So do you actively market into a greater extent to alternative tenants? And where do you try and maybe bring other tenants into the fold either through other property acquisition maybe the sale of a property with reduce exposure to a tenant investing in a retail solution? I think retail we've looked at retail on and off a number of times and we are interested in retail.
I think eventually the markets will have just super wholesale all the way down to retail.
So I think that is a good solution.
But the credit worthiness of our tenants is I don't think being realized right now.
It's significantly better than the credit worthiness of the retail tenants.
And the fact that 70% 80% of our tenants are investment grade or better and we've got them locked in for a very long time.
Our average lease term is now approximately 8 years 7.5 to 8 years in the entire portfolio.
So I don't -- I think it's a good -- a very good business long term and we have to work through this slump.
Our next question is a follow-up from Emmanuel Korchman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's Michael again.
I think you'd mentioned that one of the leases -- or I don't know if it was both of the leases that were signed in the quarter the new leases were from tenants that you signed the extensions with? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> Was it both or just one? It was one tenant that signed both leases and that tenant also signed an extension on several rooms in 2 markets.
Research Division</strong> And I guess as you think about that was it -- the only way I'm taking new spaces is you'll lock me in at a reduced rate going forward.
I'm just trying to understand the dynamics of these conversations.
I'll try to give you as much color as possible.
No I thought that we went to the tenant and said look -- the tenant wanted more space and we said "Look we just like to do a super wholesale deal " and they said yes and we've done a super wholesale rate with that tenant.
And then at the same time we discussed extending their original leases and they said "Could we extend the original leases at the same rate?" And we said "Okay.
Yes we'll let's do that." Research Division</strong> And the 12% that you're quoting that is the stabilized gap yield effectively over the life of the lease correct? Not the initial cash yield? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> And if the gap rent declines I think you said it was down 6%.
And effectively the...
No that 12% is at the reduced rate.
Research Division</strong> Right.
What I'm just saying when you built all these facilities right and you've got a 12% you're effectively -- because you're not putting any new capital in you've extended your 12% yield for another 7 8 years right? You put a known increment like capital into these transactions.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> The rates even though they'll step down when the leases -- when the current lease expire by about 25% they'll then grow again 3% a year for another 8 years? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> And so that when you blend the 23 years in total that you'll have 15 16 years of yields at these assets you'll have still earned probably around the 12% yield on that capital? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And that if we take ACC3 that cost to build ACC6 and the rent that you're receiving on ACC6 because it was leased as a wholesale the whole thing would be equivalent to the new rent that you signed on ACC3? I think that's a fair analysis.
I mean the 3 buildings was again the original building.
It actually didn't -- that building was one of the ones that actually did not have a step up.
So if you pull the cost basis from the Schedule 3 of the 10-K you'll find the original cost of that building.
And so the returns that we're getting on these new rents are still north -- are honestly north of 15% for that building with these reduced rents.
That thing has just been a home run.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I think in response to Ross' question you sort of made the analogy between being private and being public.
Then as a private guy you would have just said I'm confident in the demand and I'm confident in these data centers and the tenants' use of the space.
I'll wait.
I guess compare that to sort of market price of your stock right which is now implying almost an 11% implied cap rate relative to the private market value of those assets and how do you think is -- you're clearly a big owner of the stock and with your partner even a larger owner of the stock.
At what point do you say the right thing to do is for me to buy? At what point do you say maybe the public market is not the right vehicle for this entity? And where you sort of just you sell right or you buy more right or the company buy -- has a share repurchase program given the increased liquidity and you take advantage of the preferred and debt market and you lever up a little bit because at the 11% cap rate you think the value -- the disconnect between an asset value is extraordinarily wide? Well I think the stock is extraordinarily cheap and I wish I had more cash to buy more.
But as a company we're looking at that Mike.
That's a very good way to put it.
Research Division</strong> You're looking at what? At selling the company or putting a share repurchase program in place? [indiscernible] The latter.
Research Division</strong> I mean why not.
I mean if selling the company to -- you have a lot of these data center companies running around trying to be REIT.
Does that upper -- offer an opportunity given you're already in the REIT structure and someone reverse and merges into you? I mean these are all great theoretical questions and we look at all of them and think about all of them.
I'm not sure how to answer you.
I'm not sure...
Research Division</strong> But you didn't think about -- your mindset in going into these lease or signing these extensions was that your stock was not going to go from $24 to $20 right? Yes.
No I didn't think so.
Research Division</strong> Right.
You had the opposite mindset that you would provide a more comfort to the marketplace that your tenants are staying -- they're staying at current market rents and maybe had to obviously maybe just a little bit below because you had to induce them to sign today if there was a cost of doing it.
But that it would add more security to the asset value than detract from it? I think that's fair.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And so now that it's gone the other way the question is what do you do about it? Well I have to think about it.
Let's talk about it later.
I'll think about it.
It's a lease off rightly or wrongly we would give the market comfort that the larger tenants are here to stay.
Research Division</strong> And then if you look at your average rent per megawatt which is about $1.3 million in your estimation do you believe that's close to market even though you signed 14% of leases down 25% cash? Well I think the -- some of our yield of leases were higher than that.
And we -- so they were brought down.
So some of the older leases were higher than that $1.3 million.
Research Division</strong> Well yes.
I'm just wondering if you went after every one of your tenants and have to extend them today or bring them all to market the same way that you did with 14% in your asset base what would the new rent be today? I think rent today are about $100 per kilowatt for tenants that are 1 megawatt to 8 megawatts $100 per kilowatt per month.
Research Division</strong> So that translates into $1.2 million? Yes exactly.
And then you got a management fee of like $8 so it's almost your $1.3 million.
Research Division</strong> So effectively you believe your current rental string today even if you were to mark-to-market everything would be in line? Well yes exactly.
And the leases that are locked in are locked in for 7.9 years.
So the leases are locked in for 7.9 years and I've addressed some of the issues that were 4 years out.
Now do I address issues that are 8 years out? I don't think so.
Research Division</strong> Well you're only at 15% rolling between now and 2015.
Exactly.
That's what I'm saying.
So I don't think we -- do we build and address those issues? I don't think you address things that are 18% -- I mean 8 years out.
Research Division</strong> And I guess what -- is there any other color in terms of the bid ask in terms of the rents that you can share? No.
I don't think there's any more color than what we've shared.
Our next question comes from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One question with regards to what Michael was asking about.
While you don't need to address leases 8 years out I just wonder that given the pricing is on the expansions what kind of negotiation situations that puts you into in regards to super users who are still looking to take up space within your data centers.
Did they just point to that pricing and say that's what I want going forward? And that effectively lowers your yield going forward the new leases? Well I think it's on super wholesale deals we'll expect the return on capital to be approximately 10% 11%.
On the regular deals we're getting north of 12%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But the new rents you're signing the extension that suggest a yield lower than 10% if there's...
No that is not correct.
If you look at ACC6 I would say 70% of ACC6 is super wholesale and we're getting 12% on that building.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
But that was all done before the lease extensions.
No.
No.
Those rates are the same rates as -- it's a very good question -- as the super wholesale rates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the rates on the extension are the same as the super wholesale rates you're getting? That is correct.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to seeing you folks at NAREIT next month in San Diego.
This concludes today's call.
At this time you may disconnect.
Welcome to DuPont Fabros Technology's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager for the company.
Mr.
Warnke you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's fourth quarter 2012 results conference call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; Scott Davis the company's Executive Vice President of Operations; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which  explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
As noted in today's press release we delivered solid quarterly and full year financial results for 2012 which Mark will discuss later in the call.
Leasing continues to be our primary focus.
So I would like to begin with an update.
At the beginning of 2012 we stated our goal was to be 70% leased and commenced by the beginning of 2013 for our 4 non-stabilized properties.
As a reminder these properties were ACC6 Phase 1 Chicago Phase 2 Santa Clara Phase 1 and New Jersey Phase 1.
I'm happy to report that these properties were 77% leased and 69% commenced as of January 1 2013.
2012 was our best leasing year ever.
During 2012 we signed 14 new leases for a total of 41 megawatts of critical load with an average lease term of 9.9 years.
These new leases represent approximately $44 million of annualized GAAP base rent.
In comparison we signed 25 megawatts in 2011 23 megawatts in 2010 37 megawatts in 2009 and 4 megawatts in 2008.
In addition to the 41 megawatts of new leasing we extended 3 tenant leases by an average of over 7 years totaling 24 megawatts.
During the year we completed construction of 31.2 megawatts of critical load 18.2 megawatts in Chicago back in January and 13 megawatts in Ashburn in December.
This increased our capacity 17%.
Those projects were 100% leased at year end.
Since going public in 2007 we increased our leasable critical load from 74 megawatts to 218 megawatts nearly tripling our capacity.
During the fourth quarter we signed 5 new leases totaling 13.6 megawatts.
All 5 of these leases were with existing tenants.
The details of the leases are disclosed in our press release.
Of our top 4 tenants 3 have taken additional new space with us during 2012 and 1 of the 3 signed a long-term extension with us.
These tenants also build their own facilities and lease with other providers.
They all continue to recognize the value and the quality of our facilities and the operational expertise we provide.
Because of this level of service it is our hope that as their requirements continue to grow they will grow with us.
Let me walk through each of our 4 markets.
Northern Virginia continues to be our best market.
We have had considerable leasing success here and have limited available inventory in Ashburn.
We'll continue to actively market our Reston VA3 property.
Chicago continues to be our second best market.
We continue to see this market providing considerable growth for its data center requirements.
We are currently looking at several land parcels as well as building acquisition opportunities in order to build another data center within this market.
Santa Clara leasing has performed as expected with an exception of a slightly lower return than planned.
When we delivered the property in the fourth quarter of 2011 our goal was an 18-month lease up and achieving a 12% unlevered return.
With the most recent leasing in the fourth quarter we're now targeting a 10% unlevered return.
We continue to see good demand and are optimistic about fully leasing the property by mid-2013.
Leasing New Jersey continues to take longer than we originally expected.
NJ1 is now 39% leased up 3% from our last call.
The leasing pace for wholesale providers in the New Jersey market was disappointing.
We're committed to this market.
Hurricane Sandy created some renewed interest and we're tracking some new prospects.
We remain confident New Jersey will be a good long-term market for us.
We're hopeful that we can turn some of these prospects into leases.
To be conservative our 2013 FFO guidance excludes any New Jersey leasing.
As Mark will explain any leasing at NJ1 that commences in 2013 will provide upside to our 2013 FFO.
This assumes that we achieve our leasing targets for the other properties included in our 2013 guidance.
Despite our best leasing year ever we hit a small snag with one of our existing reseller tenants.
This tenant expanded too fast.
It was mutually decided that we would modify their leases by allowing them to return the small amount of space while maintaining that all their rental rates remain unchanged.
Mark will discuss this restructuring in more detail later in the call.
Also as previously disclosed one tenant had an option to return 2.6 megawatts in Chicago in the first quarter.
That tenant elected only to return 1.3 megawatts of that capacity.
We are actively marketing this new available inventory.
The lease on their retained 1.3 megawatt room has commenced.
We continue to address customer concentration.
We have 33 tenants with 82 lease expirations.
The weighted average remaining lease term is over 7 years.
Less than 5% of the expirations will occur over the next 2 years.
Our goal has always been to be a global preferred provider to the Fortune 1000.
As of December 31 2012 our customers include 4 of the Fortune 20 and 17 of the Fortune 1000.
This also includes prizes for foreign enterprises of equivalent size.
The 17 customers provide 72% of our annualized base rent as of December 31 2012.
Additionally as of December 31 2012 our top 3 customers provide 48% of our annualized base rent.
Our top 10 customers provide 82% of our annualized base rent.
Our goal is to continue to expand and grow our tenant roster.
I would now like to discuss our development and long-term growth plans.
Due to the limited availability in Northern Virginia our next development will likely be ACC7 and construction will likely commence sometime in the second quarter of 2013.
As previously stated we're now able to build out in smaller incremental megawatts instead of the full phase.
Scott Davis will discuss this later in the call.
This enables us to match demand and supply while decreasing our capital expenses and carrying costs during lease up.
The amount of pre-leasing and tenant demand will determine how many incremental megawatts we will develop and deliver.
We continually focus on improving our building while providing the best solution and economic environment for our tenants.
The macroeconomics of outsourcing data centers remain in place.
We continue to see significant growth year-over-year from cloud computing and applications video-on-demand health care data retention and processing large amounts of data.
One of the biggest opportunities is from companies outsourcing their requirements.
This makes economic sense for them to do so.
Not only does it save them large amounts of capital but also allows them to lease inventory as they need it while focusing on their core competencies.
We believe there is a potential for considerable growth within this market.
As demand decreases we will expand our portfolio in our existing markets and consider opportunities in new markets.
Our focus remains on leasing up our available inventory and offering our tenants the best solution for their needs while creating long-term value for the company.
Now I will turn over the call to Scott Davis Executive Vice President of Operations who will discuss our ACC7 version 3.0 design and how our data centers performed during Superstorm Sandy.
Thank you Hossein.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'm pleased to join the call today to discuss our plans for our next-generation data center design.
Elements of the design are based on the success of our existing prototype design that we have used in 5 of our ground up data center developments: ACC4 ACC5 and 6 NJ1 and SC1.
Our prototype design utilizes the isolated parallel UPS topology which has proven to be everything we expected with regard to delivering highly efficient highly available critical power while simultaneously offering significant redundancies and fault-tolerant capabilities required in a world-class data center environment.
The ISO parallel system will continue to be a main feature of our next-generation data center design.
The impetus behind the evolution of our data center design is to bring new innovation and greater efficiencies to our product.
Industry trends and new product offerings afford new opportunities to further enhance our designs and operational effectiveness.
Additionally we have ongoing collaboration with our clients and we have taken their requirements into consideration with our new design.
Throughout this design effort which we have undertaken over the past year we've had 3 primary goals in mind: one develop a product that is cheaper to build on a per-megawatt basis; two develop a product that has lower maintenance costs reducing operating expenses; and three develop a product with industry-leading PUE which leads to reduced utility cost and therefore lower cost to operate.
Lastly we have devised greater flexibility for the facility to be constructed in a more modular fashion allowing for multiple phases of construction and logical building blocks sized to better match our expected demand.
The facility being planned will be a large-scale data center with ultimate critical load capacity slightly in excess of our current 36.4 megawatt facilities.
The initial buildout will consist of a subset of computer rooms being completed with the accompanying support infrastructure.
Some of the key elements of the design will include a higher usable computer room distribution voltage which will save our tenants buildout costs; flexible power density within each computer room; economization elements in the cooling plant that will yield a high volume of cost-efficient operating hours further serving to reduce our annualized PUE.
There will also be provisions for air-conditioners and power distribution units which are normally housed in the computer room to be housed in segregated equipment galleries for clients with high security requirements.
Our design process is still under way and these elements are subject to change until we complete the final design.
We are currently targeting second quarter of 2013 for construction start in Ashburn Virginia.
We're practical.
We will also look to incorporate some of these new design elements in the second phases at Santa Clara and New Jersey when the time comes to commence those projects.
Next I would like to say a few words about our data centers' performance through one of the largest hurricanes in recorded history Superstorm Sandy.
Two of the regions in which we operate were in the path of the storm: Northern Virginia where we have 7 operating facilities; and Piscataway New Jersey where we have a single facility.
Although the full fury of the storm was not experienced in the Northern Virginia region this was not the case in New Jersey where NJ1 is located.
In Virginia we experienced heavy rain high winds and some brief utility anomalies but no sustained utility outages.
Our Northern Virginia data centers functioned as designed and no tenant's critical load was impacted at any time during or after the storm.
Our data centers are designed and operated to provide our customers with the utmost in reliability even during the most inclement situations.
At our Northern Virginia locations and at NJ1 we have built dedicated substations with multiple feeds for our data centers which afford us the highest level of utility service availability.
The New Jersey region experienced widespread and prolonged utility outages.
Our NJ1 data center operated on generator power for approximately 100 hours the longest utility outage DFT has experienced to date at NJ1 or at any of our data centers.
We were able to secure fuel deliveries from out-of-state providers and provide local utility workers with access to our facilities and amenities.
When gasoline became scarce we were able to provide our employees and security staff with gas for their vehicles enabling them to get back and forth to work.
We were also able to assist other local data center operators procure fuel for their sites by sharing our fuel-provider resource.
All back up systems performed as expected and no NJ1 tenant lost critical load at any time during or after the storm.
The combination of a superior data center design and a well-experienced and dedicated operations team enabled us to meet our clients' expectations by being fully operational through this exceptional storm and its aftermath without disruption to any of their services.
Now I will turn the call over to Mark who will take you through our financial results.
Thank you Scott.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I want to cover 4 main topics today: our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results capital markets update a walk through our 2013 guidance and a 2013 dividend update.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 the company's FFO was $0.38 per share compared to $0.37 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the year FFO was $1.48 per share.
For both the quarter and the year we hit the low end of the range based on what we provided on the Q3 call.
As Hossein mentioned previously we mutually agreed with one of our tenants to take back 16% of their existing contractual space.
As a result we recorded a $0.04 per share charge in Q4.
This tenant restructured its obligations and we believe this restructuring should put this tenant in a position to succeed.
As part of the restructuring this tenant returned space at ACC5 and VA3 in Virginia.
Also under this restructuring this tenant's outstanding accounts receivable and deferred rent receivable related to the returned space has been converted into a note receivable.
We continue to look at the acquisition of income-producing properties and development opportunities.
We visited and looked hard at multiple locations both domestically and internationally in the second half of 2012.
In the fourth quarter you will notice a $0.01 per charge on our results for deal pursuit costs.
This charge represents the cost-pursuing opportunities to acquire operating properties and development sites.
We expect to continue to pursue deals as they arise but have not included any cost in our 2013 guidance.
Without the $0.05 per share charge in the receivables reserve in the deal pursuit cost we will have exceeded the high end of the range for the core on year by $0.01 per share.
The overall $0.13 per share decrease as compared to 2012 is primarily due to higher capitalized interest expense as well as the receivable reserve and deal pursuit cost.
FFO was $0.37 per share for the fourth quarter compared to $0.32 per share quarter-over-quarter an increase of 15%.
As compared to Q3 AFFO is up $0.05 per share or 15%.
For the year AFFO was $1.29 per share compared to $1.21 per share for the prior year an increase of 7%.
These overall increases are primarily a result of increased lease commencements and cash rents collected from tenants.
Quarterly revenues were $86 million our highest ever.
This increase was $11.6 million or 16% quarter-over-quarter.
For the year ended revenues were $332 million compared to $287 million for 2011 an increase of 16%.
As to our Capital Markets update we had no activity in Q4 and only 2 transactions in 2012.
In January we sold 2.6 million shares of Series B perpetual preferred stock raising approximately 63 million.
In March we raised our unsecured line from $100 million to $225 million.
As of today we have drawn $25 million on our line and have $25 million of cash on hand.
The 80 million common stock buyback program approved by the Board remains in place.
No activity under this program has occurred through today.
We remain committed to maximizing shareholder value and will utilize this program as opportunities arise.
Our next debt maturity is in December 2014.
This is the one secured loan and can be prepaid without penalty.
We may look to address this sooner than later but have not included the impact of any refinancing or pre-payment in our 2013 guidance.
We continue to keep our leverage low and strengthen our balance sheet while improving on all financial metrics.
As of year end our debt to enterprise value was a low 23%.
Our interest coverage ratio was at 4x and our fixed charge ratio including our preferred dividend is at a 2.3x.
As a result our balance sheet is in great shape.
I would now like to discuss our 2013 guidance.
Our first quarter 2013 FFO guidance range is $0.38 to $0.40 per share.
Sequentially if you roll forward Q4 2012 of $0.38 per share add back the $0.05 per share reserve in pursuit cost you need to subtract an additional $0.01 per share for the January reserve that we rolled into the note $0.02 per share for increased G&amp;A as we had a lower bonus payout in Q4 and a higher FICA cost in Q1 and $0.02 per share for the lower capitalized interest in carry cost for the opening of a ACC6 Phase 2.
Let me walk you through this 24% FFO increase as compared to our 2012 actual results of $1.48 per share.
We tightened the total revenues range provided on a Q3 call from $360 million to $400 million to $365 million to $385 million.
This is primarily due to eliminating any New Jersey leasing from our guidance range and the 2.5 megawatts capacity we need to release.
We expect to be 100% leased at all other properties with available inventory by the end of 2013 excluding New Jersey.
We have assumed that commencement dates -- commencement start dates for these leases will be in the second half of the year in order to hit the midpoint of our guidance range.
Straight-line rents continued to come down year-over-year as the ramp rent has burned off on existing leases.
This has dropped from $34 million in 2011 to $18 million in 2012 and a projected $11 million in 2013.
Several of the new leases have no ramp rent in place.
As of year end for lease is executed on a forward 12-month basis we expect GAAP-based rent to be $238 million and cash-based rent to be $235 million.
For new leases already executed base rent for lease commencements in 2013 will total approximately $17 million or $0.21 per share.
For new leases we expect to sign in 2013 excluding New Jersey base rent will total approximately $6 million or $0.07 per share with the majority of this coming in the second half of the year.
The 2013 unreimbursed operating cost real estate tax and insurance total approximately $0.11 per share.
This includes $0.07 per share for New Jersey and $0.04 per share for the remaining properties with available inventory.
Specific to New Jersey the building is 39% leased and it is cash flow positive.
For our current and prospective tenants we have no intent of selling this property and remain committed to the New York metro market.
2013 G&amp;A is $18 million or 4.8% of gross revenues as compared to 5.1% of gross revenues in 2012.
In summary our 2013 FFO midpoint is $1.83 per share excluding any new leasing at NJ1 and including a $0.07 per share impact due to unreimbursed New Jersey operating expenses.
We project midpoint revenues of $375 million up 13% year-over-year.
We project operating income excluding depreciation or EBITDA to exceed $230 million up 16% year-over-year.
Overall we project FFO to be up 24% and AFFO to be up over 30% as compared to 2012 actual results.
Free cash flow after the common dividend should be in the $80 million range prior to any CapEx spend.
For capital cost on our existing portfolio we expect to spend $6 million in 2013.
This includes the completion of a lobby and security office at VA3 battery replacements at VA4 variable frequency drive upgrade in several properties and a variety of small projects.
For capital costs and new developments we expect to spend $65 million in 2013.
We expect to utilize free cash flow in our current unsecured line to fund these developments.
Currently we only anticipate starting the development of ACC7 in the second quarter of 2013.
This will include a shell and a building out of at least 5 megawatts of critical load.
At this point we do not anticipate starting development of Phase 2 of Santa Clara in 2013 and no costs for this potential development are included in the $65 million.
Accelerated leasing at SC1 could accelerate this development.
The 2013 guidance assumes no debt or equity raises and at this point no use of our stock repurchase program.
Overall details of our 2013 guidance are included on Page 15 of today's press release.
We had previously discussed several times about our unsecured bond call provisions as a reminder the 4-year non-call's on December 15 2013.
At that point it would cost us a onetime fee of 4.25% or about $23 million to take out and replace the bonds.
Current estimates are that we could pick up 250 to 300 basis points on the coupon.
We will evaluate this opportunity as the year unfolds.
As for the dividend update we raised the dividend twice in 2012 from $0.12 to $0.15 per share during the second quarter and again in the fourth quarter from $0.15 to $0.20 per share.
New leases and new lease commencements occurring in 2013 could result in another dividend increase.
We will reevaluate any increases in the second half of the year.
Our policy remains paying at least 100% of taxable income.
Any future changes to our common dividend will be approved by our Board of Directors.
We believe our balance sheet and financial condition are in great shape which provides us a strong foundation for continued growth.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
Before we open up for questions let me offer a few final comments.
We had a great leasing year.
We still have a lot of leasing to do for our available inventory especially in New Jersey.
This is everyone's objective.
Second I want to thank everyone at DFT for their continued dedication and hard work.
Finally hopefully everyone noticed the Form 8-K we filed yesterday.
We listened to our investors and changed my base salary and compensation back to a standard annual salary.
The Board approved this change.
The old compensation was an unnecessary distraction.
With that I'll open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to focus in on the deal costs or deal-pursuit cost in the quarter.
Could you maybe discuss the thought process strategically behind the acquisitions or the assets you were pursuing? Were they new markets domestically or abroad or existing markets? Or was the nature of what you were looking at wholesale versus retail? And how should we be thinking about that relative to what you'd look to invest in the business in 2013 and beyond? There were 2 or 3 deals mainly.
There was one deal which was domestic.
A part of their business was retail and part of their business was wholesale.
That was a large company.
There was a second deal that was in the U.K.
that was primarily wholesale but smaller segment and smaller segments than we typically do -- smaller tenant base than we typically do but I would consider them wholesale.
And then there were a few other opportunities with -- I would say half of those were with build-to-suit type opportunities that we would build with an anchor tenant.
One or 2 of them were simply land acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as a follow-up as it relates to strategy you've successfully leased the portfolio to 90% New Jersey and a little bit of Santa Clara are the principal balance of what remains here.
Despite this the stock is 12% above the IPO price today which was 5 years ago.
Could you maybe -- whereas your AFFO per share is up 100% almost over that same period.
Could you maybe address your thoughts around this and how you would intend to potentially rectify this? And if there's any thoughts surrounding strategic alternatives.
I think we would like to do whatever is in the best interest of our shareholders as strategic alternatives come up.
We are looking at acquisitions.
I think for the first 5 years we have to build the tenant base and to build a diversified portfolio that could successfully absorb a acquisition.
And I believe we're now close to making that happen.
We're now like we said almost 3x the size in magnitude of megawatts since our IPO.
And like you said AFFO has gone up significantly.
We've built a balance sheet that is much more solid than our IPO at times.
And the -- so now we would look to doing acquisitions and any and all strategic alternatives to maximize shareholder value.
Meanwhile some acquisitions may have some elements of retail and connectivity.
Research Division</strong> The only difficulty I have with sort of you guys looking at incremental acquisitions here is the market hasn't necessarily afforded you the cost of capital for one reason or another to actually go out and pursue incremental investments.
And so I was thinking about it from the other perspective.
Have you thought about strategic alternatives the other way either merger with another company or a sale of the company given the discount relative to net asset value and relative to the public peers? In the long term we don't control the stock price we control our FFO and our AFFO and we mean to increase that.
So we -- nothing is off the table.
We -- as opportunities occur we'll evaluate them on the best way to maximize shareholder value.
The next question will come from Emmanuel Korchman of Citigroup.
I guess if you go back to the IPO acquisitions were never sort of part of the discussion.
The whole idea was here's a portfolio of assets and potential land that we can develop on.
This is a development story.
And that is where it's at.
And so I guess I'm also a little bit confused as sort of the strategy now of going out and making acquisitions where -- the best acquisition you can do is your stock right? And you have a share repurchase program in place.
Why wouldn't you be buying that as much as possible relative to going out and buying an asset? I think we will look at that as opportunities occur we will look at our stock to purchase it back as opportunities occur.
However we're not also in the business of trading our own stock as a short-term trader.
But we will do whatever it takes to maximize shareholder value.
I guess how long will you let this go for right? I mean obviously FFO has increased.
It's going to continue to increase as you lease up the remaining space as you continue to develop in your core markets that are showing the demand.
I guess at what point will you have the reflection of saying you know what with the stock where it is and clearly where values are there's something -- there's a disconnect.
I think you're absolutely right but it wouldn't be right for me to tell you what is the stock price in my head that I would buy at right? That's kind of negotiating against myself -- against ourselves here.
So we're looking at it aggressively.
We continue to monitor it.
And so we have the program in place to buy back our own stock.
Just looking at the tenant who we assume is not too easy and like give back some space.
And obviously they're a big part of New Jersey and important to that asset and your businesses in 4 of your assets.
Maybe you can tell us more about sort of the company you mentioned that they grew too quickly.
Maybe you can kind of give more details on that and what their current financial state is and whether they're going to keep growing or what happens to them.
Well I think we consider them a partner like we consider all of our tenants a partner.
We realize that they were not doing well financially.
With this restructuring we believe they are now cash flow positive and we believe that they're in a better position to become a success.
We stand behind them and we stand behind their tenants.
Typically a reseller -- a smaller reseller has been our -- on the weaker side of our tenant base but we stand behind them.
We hope the best that they will succeed.
We have full confidence that they will.
Yet at the same time on the reverse side of it we have some of the acquisitions we have looked at have included elements of retail.
So we hope the best that they will succeed.
And maybe just as a follow-up to that.
If you look at their performance in the 2 markets that have been downsized in versus maybe New Jersey or the one market where they're are not downsizing if you can kind of walk us through.
Did they approached you about taking space in all the markets and this was negotiated deal where the -- just those 2 were backed out? And when will we find out more about the potential deferred payments in New Jersey? I'll leave the last part to Mark.
As far as the markets when we started talking to them kind of in the last quarter those are the markets that we were very much more confident in leasing up the space and those are tighter markets.
So those are the markets that we could help them out at.
So those are the markets we let them out of those leases.
And in terms of -- Manny this is Mark.
In terms of any updates obviously for quarterly we can provide updates but I don't think it will be any time sooner than that.
We've positioned it where they can -- they're cash flow positive they can grow.
They've had a few wins lately with tenants and they continue to hustle to fill up what vacant space they have.
Our next question will come from Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Listen I guess I wanted to go a bit of a step back here.
You came through a year where you signed some very big wholesale or super wholesale deals in renewals yet the overall leasing volume was obviously pretty robust.
As we stand on February what -- the first week in February when we looked out over 2013 and you compare back to a year ago is the industry in a better position or worse position? How do you feel about trends today versus 12 months ago? Because the one thing I'm having a hard time getting is your sense of enthusiasm for this business versus what we've seen from you historically.
I guess I want to be conservative in my demeanor but I do feel like I said like 3 times that this has been our best year in leasing.
The amount of volume of leasing we've had has been unbelievable.
And if you had asked me a year ago "Would you have done 41.5 megawatts of leasing?" I would have said "No." even in my older enthusiastic ways.
I want to be -- I want to look at it more conservatively.
When we went public we had under 80 megawatts of leasing.
And right now this 1 year alone we did 41 megawatts.
When we went public we said we would get 12% unlevered returns on ACC6.
Even with the wholesale pricing we were getting 12% unlevered return.
So in that sense I'm very excited about these opportunities.
But we have gone through a period where there was talk of industry's changes so I want to be moderate about my demeanor.
And I think Jonathan -- this is Mark -- I mean we're trying to be moderate in terms of our capital deployment as well so that we can be poised to act in multiple markets if in fact leasing takes off.
So building in smaller phases allows us to control our capital cost so that we're not long in any one market.
We can be proactive in our 4 markets and potentially in a new market.
Research Division</strong> Mark I think it's a good point and I do think that your change in capital allocation strategy given particularly your ability to achieve certain goals in terms of overall facility quality and construction is a big positive change for you guys.
I agree.
And maybe that raises a different question which is the opportunity to allocate capital to markets that work and away from capital markets that may not have as good dynamics over a short period of time is somewhat limited as you look at a 4-market portfolio.
As you evaluate expansion opportunities either within the market footprints or potentially outside the market footprint what criteria are you looking at in terms of determining that decision? And are you looking at just kind of the near-term impact? Or are you also looking at kind of the long-term portfolio effect of the decision? Well I think we certainly are at this time not interested in Tier 2 markets.
The Tier 1 markets are literally a handful.
And so -- and those markets will always grow faster than the Tier 2 markets.
Those markets are where those tenants really want to be in.
So we're going to concentrate on those markets.
We will also in new markets look at pre-leasing opportunities to try and minimize risk to the shareholders.
Our next question will come from Jonathan Atkin of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes 2 questions.
First quickly for Mark.
Was there any change in the AFFO definition? I thought I saw some modest changes in kind of the verbiage.
And then secondly on New Jersey I'm just interested in a little bit of clarification.
Maybe you could comment on of the deals that could go away from you to other third-party data center providers what portion is going to other facilities in that New Jersey market versus go outside the region to other geographies? Yes Hossein will answer the second question first.
Okay.
From our leasing of the deals that we have seen we've been getting a fair amount of them.
There were some deals that were single source.
There were some deals that were tenants-type of occupants.
And there were some deals that were like a reseller going to a provider that they have leased from before.
From the 1- or 2-megawatt-type of deals that we could have had we've been getting a fair shot at all of them and we haven't really seen any deals that we've missed that we can go back and say it was because our product was different or because our leasing guys were not doing a good job.
We believe our product is the best product in the market and we've been told that by the 39% of tenants that are occupying them.
And don't forget it is a very very large data center.
1/3 or of 18 megawatts 6 or 7 megawatts kind of 6 or 7 megawatts that's like a whole entire Equinix-type of building.
So we've leased one entire type of building in terms of megawatts and we have 2 of those left.
It's just that the buildings that we have leased in Virginia have been instantaneous and have leased way beyond our expectations.
And Jon AFFO we did fine-tune that from Q3 to Q4 added a few new line items that are consistent with what other folks seem to be identifying as adjustments to AFFO.
So it really didn't move the needle.
Some went up some went down but we did expand that based on some analysis of some other REITs.
As you know a REIT doesn't necessarily define AFFO it defines FFO.
So we're just trying to play consistency with some of the other players.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there any historical reconciliation available? Or is the net number unchanged in prior quarters then? You mean for prior years? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think we will probably -- I don't know if we'll update that in the K but we can easily pull that together.
The next question will come from Young Ku of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Mark first question.
How does the lease restructuring reflect on the balance sheet? Well the bulk of the expense -- what we ran through the P&amp;L is sitting in other expenses.
And then there's a note sitting in other receivables.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
I didn't get that.
Can you say that one more time? On the P&amp;L -- obviously what we ran through the P&amp;L is sitting in other expenses.
And then in terms of what's sitting on the balance sheet it's a -- the bulk of it is sitting in note receivable in terms of what we've pulled together.
A little bit in deferred -- adjustment and deferred rent as well in the deferred rent line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And the notes receivable is in other assets line item? I'm sorry.
Repeat that Young.
LLC Research Division</strong> And the notes receivable is on the other asset [indiscernible]? Or is it...
No on the ARs and other receivables line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And just going back on the New Jersey comments a little bit.
Just a few months ago I know you guys were a little bit more bullish on New Jersey given what happened with Sandy.
Then you said that there were some prospects for leasing that up.
But it seems like you're a lot more cautious there.
When do you expect to lease New Jersey up? Well we did actually get one lease out of Sandy that happened.
It went straight -- they wanted to actually be out of the New York Metropolitan area.
And it was an existing tenant in our Jersey facility who was very happy with our quality of service and they leased a small pod in Chicago almost instantaneously.
So -- and then we are still evaluating 2 or 3 other prospects or they're evaluating us considering their options as to where to go from that.
But on the whole I think the idea of not putting any New Jersey in the 2013 guidance was to be conservative.
Mark do you have anything to add to that? Yes I think we leased less than a megawatt in '12 The idea of putting in numbers through '13 and then having to adjust it midyear I just think from my seat we -- I wanted to put out there here's where we -- very conservatively here's where we're going to be.
Anything upside we commence in New Jersey is a win-win.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you expect to lease it up by when? Did you mention it? No I don't think we have a date.
I mean I think we -- obviously we'd like to lease it up next quarter.
But it's going to take time and there are some big requirements there are some little requirements.
But -- and we continue to track "perceived demand" just like some of our competitors in that submarket but decision making is out of our control.
So at this point we're taking the conservative route.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And I do have one other question in New Jersey.
So what is the magnitude of kind of activity on New Jersey? I mean are you seeing a couple prospects or a couple of activities that you could potentially sign? Just a little bit more color there.
Yes we are tracking I would say a handful of deals that we're tracking and we're following them up.
And we are -- I just think that there is -- demand for the wholesale space is not where it is in Virginia where in Virginia we have tenants wanting 5 to 10 types of megawatts and then we have a whole bunch wanting 1 or 2 megawatts.
In New Jersey the decision making is slower.
The -- and the reason for a data center demand is not so much that there must -- where -- in Virginia the reason they need it is because they are growing so fast that they need additional data center space.
The reason in New Jersey is that -- where they need it is that their older data center needs to be redone and they need to move out of an older data center that could have problems in the future whereas not necessarily an immediate need that's going to affect those companies' bottom line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
That's helpful.
And just one more quick follow-up.
The $235 million in base rent over the next 12 months there's a lot of moving parts so I'm just trying to get a handle for where that would be if all of the leases that you've signed kind of commenced and was online.
What's kind of like a 12-month executed [ph] [indiscernible] that $235 million number? Well the $235 million base cash rent is forward '12 on executed leases as of 12/31.
So that includes leases that have not yet commenced.
They've been executed but not commenced.
Obviously it doesn't include any leases that are not yet executed.
So for -- to execute those leases we said in guidance base rent was roughly $7 million of base rent in 2013 guidance.
The question is when do they commence? What kind of ramp period do we give them? If they all commence as we planned and we shall see.
But again if you draw the line in the sand at the balance sheet date it excludes -- they also exclude -- it's just the operating properties at 12/31.
So Phase 2 of ACC6 which is 100% leased and 50% commenced on day 1 of '13 is not in those numbers.
So again we're just drawing the line at the balance sheet.
Here it is.
And then we have to add in -- again executed operating properties are in there; executed in the development property which wasn't open as of that date is not in there; plus anything new.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry I...
There is no speculative leasing in that number Correct.
Does that make sense? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Our next question will come from Bill Crow of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hossein you talked about how you identified the problem with net2EZ last quarter.
When was the most recent lease signed with them at any one of your facilities? I think...
It was back in '11.
Yes.
Nothing in '12 Bill.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So things kind of deteriorated pretty quickly? Or maybe they got over their SKUs [ph] a little too far? Yes as of 9/30 when we reported Q3 they were paid in full as of 9/30.
So it's really Q4 where they kind of had come to Jesus meaning that they needed to restructure.
They had a lot of leases not only with us but some other players that they -- from a cash flow perspective they just need to do a deal with.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Are there any other tenants on your watchlist currently Mark that you're worried about? No no not at all.
No no.
Not at all.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally I know New Jersey's been beaten to death but any change in the traffic volumes from when you had this call a quarter ago? No I would say there's probably no change in the traffic.
I mean obviously during the hurricane a couple weeks it probably slowed down.
But then it picked up and then the holidays hit.
But through the quarter I think the averages continue to be -- if you just look at our -- we do track all that in traffic and the challenge is traffic is one thing decision making is another.
And we signed one small deal.
We went from 36% to 39%.
So I would say we're like 40% leased up right now.
And we're cautiously optimistic about the market.
The tenants that do look at it and do take the time to look at the backside of the engineering do realize that it's a superior product.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
What is your return expectation for ACC7 unlevered return? We haven't quoted that but I would.
It's still in the range of -- in Virginia we could be in that 12% to 15% range Bill.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You're still comfortable even with the wholesale? Yes.
I mean it depends on what percentage of the data center is super wholesale and what percentage of the data center is typical wholesale.
So on a typical ACC6 where 80% of it was super wholesale will be at 12%.
If it was the reverse meaning 80% wholesale 20% super wholesale we'll be at 15%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
And finally for me Hossein I think getting into the acquisition business is interesting.
Getting into the international acquisition business is a little different.
Have you talked to your partners the shareholders out there their reaction to had you or would you go into Europe? And I'm just curious how you think that their reaction would be.
Well I think it depends on the risk factors involved on is it you're going into development is it that you're going into acquiring an income-producing property that is accretive and the level of accretion.
So we look at all 3 and also looking at the tenants' quality and the tenant base of it.
So we would look at it with all 3 of those risks involved.
And also Bill potentially with a JV partner it depends on the location overseas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes you're still open to that though I take it? Yes absolutely.
The next question will come from Rob Stevenson of Macquarie.
Mark if I think about the FFO per share you guys did $0.38 in the fourth quarter but it was really $0.43 if I add back the net2EZ and the debt deal cost.
So you're sitting there at $0.43.
You have -- from the release it looks like almost 9 megawatts of commencements in the first quarter of '13.
I don't know how much of that are deferred or free rent.
But can you help me reconcile that run rate to the sort of $0.38 to $0.40 that you're guiding to what steps the FFO backed down? Sure Rob.
I tried to explain that on the -- in my prepared remarks.
So if you go $0.38 plus $0.05 you're at $0.43.
You back off.
We didn't do the deal with the reseller until February 1.
So you got January that's going to roll into a note.
So the reserve hit there is $0.01.
You've got $0.02 of G&amp;A.
Because of the reserve hit we all took lower bonuses.
So the accrual for bonuses got taken down in Q4.
And in Q1 you have a restart of bonuses at 100%.
You have FICA kicking in for everybody who gets paid.
And then you have $0.02 roughly for ACC6 Phase 2.
If you think about it we open the doors we take a very conservative approach with interest we stop capitalization on 1/1 and we commence 50% of the 13 megawatts.
Well the other 50% has carrying costs that we as a company absorb until those leases commence which some of them commence later this year.
So that's at $0.05.
So it goes from $0.38 to $0.43 back to $0.38.
Okay.
And then on the -- and then you also have the -- when is the impact hit of the Chicago give-back? Or does that never -- so that was never in? That was never commenced because we -- it was an executed lease that had not commenced.
And so they had the option which they had to decide in mid-January.
One of those 2 commenced.
The other one did not.
Okay.
And then lastly what's the revenue magnitude and the megawatts involved at New Jersey 1 if they -- if that rolls into a loan or arrears for net2EZ? They were at -- they leased one room 2.275 one of the bigger rooms.
And the issue of the revenue -- I don't know if I have that handy but it's roughly x percent that amount leased.
You said it's 1.275 megawatts? 2.275.
2.275.
Out of the 18.2 that they lease from us.
The next question will come from John Stewart of Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hossein I was hoping you could help us understand why the -- what led to the deals you pursued in the fourth quarter falling apart? We did a lot of deals in the fourth quarter.
I'm not sure if I understand your question.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The dead deal costs.
Why were the acquisitions not consummated? Oh.
I think other people were willing to pay more for them and one of them they decided to go public themselves.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And in terms of deals that -- where others paid more what -- can you help us understand kind of market cap rates? The one deal that someone else paid more was in Europe and I think they paid an EBITDA multiple of 13.5.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with the net2EZ restructuring what does the revised return on NJ1 look like? Well I don't think we've -- the revised return is still north of 10%.
But we have to go lease the rest of the building so...
So it depends on what the rest of the building is leased at.
But the -- it's not like they're walking away from their responsibility.
It's just rolling into a note.
So they still have -- they've had some wins up there and they continue to -- we feed them deals that are smaller than we can absorb.
And so I think it's -- time will tell.
But obviously on an invested capital and what we spend and if you look at it from that perspective it's not pretty.
But in terms of where we eventually will get on a stabilized basis we still think it'd be north of 10%.
But there's no charge at all for New Jersey for that particular reseller.
No rent reduction either.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right got it.
Okay.
And Mark I think you guided to a 10% GAAP return on SC1.
What would -- and you also commented on how the spread between GAAP and cash is narrowing just across the portfolio.
But what is the current cash return on SC1? Some of those leases have not commenced.
It's definitely -- I don't know if I have that at fingertips John but the year 1 year 2 of any of our developments are typically not cash positive.
But that building does throw off on a cash-positive basis on what we've leased to date.
But in terms of the return I can't -- I don't anything handy to quote you that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Not cash.
I mean I expect there would obviously be a delta between cash and GAAP call it a couple of hundred basis points.
But it's -- well I can follow up with you offline.
Lastly just confirming.
The land for ACC7 is that held on balance sheet? Yes it is.
The next question will come from John Petersen of MLV &amp; Company.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> In terms of VA3 I want to focus on that for just a minute.
So we've now seen 2 tenants leave that space Yahoo! a few quarters ago and now the tenant this quarter.
If I kind of -- I guess between those tenants there's really no backfilling of that space.
Just looking at it on paper it was built in 2003 the square foot-to-megawatt ratio is the highest in your portfolio.
Your other properties in Northern Virginia seem to be leasing up just fine and you're moving ahead with ACC7.
Is the conclusion that that building is becoming I don't want to say obsolete but maybe inferior? And what's the road to leasing that up? Well there are 2 issues.
One it never really had a lobby and a proper entrance.
So there were some security issues which our newer building did not.
We have now -- are under construction to have the lobby finished and we hope to be done with it sometime in May of this year.
So that physical inferiority has gone away.
As far as the electrical and mechanical infrastructure it's in great shape.
And as far as the network connectivity standpoint it's probably one of the best areas in America.
It is -- it sits on Sunset Hills Road which has more fiber optic running down at it than probably any other road certainly on the East Coast.
The one issue -- the advantage that we do have at Ashburn is that we did -- we do have the tax abatement for servers that was passed for the Ashburn campus that we do not have that mapped for ASHRAE [ph].
So I think so long as we had space available the Ashburn was a better location.
But now that we have nothing left we're cautiously optimistic about VA3.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> That makes a lot of sense.
Is it possible to have more to upgrade the power in that building? I mean I'm looking at the 11 300 square feet per megawatt.
ACC5 is 4 800 per megawatt.
I mean if [indiscernible] more.
I mean -- you're right but that doesn't make any difference because we lease the available power up.
We don't lease the space.
So if you're leaving -- whether you leave 3 feet in between your racks or 6 feet in between your racks you're paying the same price to us.
Lewis &amp; Vlak LLC Research Division</strong> Oh no I understand that.
But I mean it seems like you can do 3 feet instead of 6 feet and cram more stuff in there and make more money.
Oh.
Yes yes.
It would -- we would need to upgrade all the electrical wires.
We would need to upgrade the cooling systems.
I mean essentially we would need to build a new building.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Dave Rodgers of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to the acquisitions and maybe not anything specific but as you think about moving more toward acquisitions on the horizon where are you comfortable with the initial going in returns for some of these assets? And how should we think about what you target aside from some of these larger companies? Some of the things we're looking at are -- Mark why don't you? I think Dave the -- in the development arena work we like 12% to 15% settle for 10% in California.
The issue of income-producing acquisitions typically in the 7% to 9% to win the deal.
I mean we looked hard at some things that we lost on and other folks who will want to pay a little bit higher price.
So if you pencil in some kind of yield it's 7% to 9% probably.
And it's not that we're going to stop our development no.
We're absolutely going to continue our development as well.
Research Division</strong> And I guess if you thought -- is that still the right risk premium given the success you've had in some markets? Do you consider compressing that a little bit relative to where acquisitions are to drive more business and perhaps enhance the net asset value? I think it depends on asset value and it depends on credit quality lease quality.
It depends on if the older leases are true triple-net.
It depends on growth prospects in that market.
It's hard to set a parameter without having the actual deals to look at.
Research Division</strong> Again I guess the last question on that line.
Would you continue to want to focus on a similar set of customers in the verticals where you are strong today? Or would you I guess actively use this as an opportunity to diversify those vertical exposures? I mean it would certainly diversify us on acquisitions because I think no one in the industry has the credit quality that -- the quality of the tenants that we typically have on the name brands.
So apart from that one tenant mentioned in the call today everybody else is very very high quality.
So one of the reasons we have not looked at acquisitions in the past has been asset quality and tenant quality.
So doing some acquisitions may -- we may not have the -- it depends on the acquisition.
And Dave I mean the benchmark at the IPO we were in one market.
Top 2 tenants were 86% of our annualized rent.
Today we're in 4 markets.
We've as we've talked early in the call grown the revenue line grown the EBITDA line grown the FFO line grown the AFFO line.
We issued one round of stock between the IPO and today.
So the growth story is there.
[Indiscernible] diversification today the top 2 tenants are less than 40%.
So yes the top 3 are 48% but we continue to diversify both geographically and tenants.
And that continues to be a good thing for the company.
The next question will come from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple more things.
Around the tenants that gave back space I mean on a megawatt basis it seems like it's roughly about 2.5% of total megawatts that have been leased.
Could you talk about that percentage? As a percentage of your total revenues how much exposure you have to them? Well I think the give-back in Chicago was an option that was always out there.
It was 1.3 megawatts of the 218 that we have.
So percentage-wise that's pretty low.
The give-back of the 1-point -- whatever it is 1.3 or so of...
1.2.
1.2 to the reseller that amount is -- that tenant is a top 10 tenant for us and they are doing well in these other markets.
So I think the issue of what's our exposure in the revenue line it's north of $0.10.
So I think we're poised to help them succeed and so we're -- that was part of the restructuring when they're a long-term partner with us and we want them to succeed.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But not top 10 tenant.
Are they overall 8% of your total revenues? Or what's that number? Well I think if it's $0.10 of FFO and we're in the $1.80...
You can calculate.
-- $1.83 so it's -- I don't have that at my fingertips Tayo.
I'll have it offline.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No worries at all I get it.
And then just in regards to the deals that you're tracking right now Hossein could you talk a little bit about pricing and where you kind of think pricing is going? Is it kind of stable? Is there some pricing pressure on the superuser side? Or what are you kind of seeing? No I think their pricing is stable and that we have established a price that we've discussed on our previous call for the super wholesale tenant.
And the general market price in -- for the non-super wholesale kind of 1-megawatt type of tenant is somewhere around $1.05 to $1.15 type of range.
Our next question will come from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions here.
First what's the cost per kilowatt of ACC7 versus say Santa Clara and New Jersey? How much lower? How much do you [indiscernible] to fill? I think again to be conservative well first of all I may add we have not finished our design yet.
We're still modifying that.
So I don't want to quote hard costs because the design is not finished yet.
But what we're targeting is to build the data center in smaller increments and not be higher than the current cost of our older data centers.
So if you look at the ACC type of campus we're all in approximately at $8.5 million a megawatt.
That includes capitalized interest.
And so if we're able to bring the data center in all in or about the same rate but not take into account inflation which is a few years have gone by and not to take into account the smaller incremental builds then I think that's the goal we're going for.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question.
Why didn't you tell your reseller tenant why didn't you just shove the signed lease in their face and say look you're an adult you signed this contract honor it.
Well I mean we looked at their financials.
We realized -- we look at all of our tenants as partners.
They -- we've gone through a long time with them where we had given them leads where they were too small for us.
They had referred once in a while a lead to us that was too big for them.
We want them to succeed.
And frankly we felt that if we shoved that lease there they wouldn't succeed.
So we've given them a second chance to be able to make that and we'll see.
We're cautiously optimistic that they'll make it.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Third question I have and I want to make sure I heard this right when somebody asked you Hossein about dead deal cost in the fourth quarter and acquisitions that you may have been pursuing I thought I heard you say that one of the things you were pursuing went away because they went public themselves.
Are you suggesting that you were talking to CyrusOne? I'm not prepared to answer that question.
[Indiscernible] Research Division</strong> I mean you already quasi-answered it by suggesting that an entity went public.
I'm just trying to get a sense of making sure I heard you said that correctly.
You heard what you heard right? You can repeat.
You can look at the transcript.
The next question is a follow-up from Emmanuel Korchman of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's Michael Bilerman speaking.
You said that the $0.10 is net2eEZ's total exposure after the give-back of the 1.2 megawatts.
And so it effectively is $8.2 million of NOI.
That's really at the revenue line and not the NOI line.
So roughly north of $0.10 of revenues that they generate for us.
Research Division</strong> And that is -- so effectively so call it about $10 million of -- it's a little bit higher than on an NOI basis given the probably positive spread on your recoveries and fees? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- and that's on the 6.25 going forward correct? Yes that's on the -- that's after the restructuring on what they currently have in Virginia and in New Jersey.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so what -- you said you sort of looked at their financials they were cash flow negative in the fourth quarter hence why you sort of gave back and put them into the black.
So what exactly -- I mean do they have any assets? What is -- what sort of security do they have for that note? Who's the financial backer? Things like that so that we can get comfort that not only the note that you have now is eventually going to be paid but also thinking about the security of this ongoing $10 million stream.
Mike I think most resellers do not have a "strong balance sheet." I mean they lease space they sublease the space out and they make a margin on the difference.
So you've got to be prudent about how you grow the business.
And the biggest line item expense is payments to guys like us.
So if they can control that continue to grow the revenue line fill up what they have it's a pretty profitable business.
That's why a lot of people are in the -- in -- it's a people-focused business but the idea that they have a balance sheet of strength is -- they make it.
They live by -- or eat what they kill.
But the idea that the notes -- we've been with these they've been with us and we've been with them for since the IPO and we want them to succeed.
So I think it's just they're cash flow positive with some restructuring in place.
And so they're going to manage their distributions they're going to manage their growth and we've given them a reprieve on what they owe us.
Research Division</strong> What's their utilization rate? And on -- if you think about the 7 4 5 that they had with you pre-restructuring what was their utilization rate on reselling that space? Was it a -- I guess was it a utilization issue or was it a price issue that they were failing on? I think they did not lease fast enough in those markets.
So it was a utilization issue.
Research Division</strong> And then do you know on the balance now at 6.25 where that utilization stands? No we do not.
Research Division</strong> And then...
If you walk the rooms and they -- there's definitely busy-ness and activity so...
Research Division</strong> Lights are flashing.
I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> The lights are flashing.
The lights are flashing.
I mean what we could say is that we believe that they're cash flow positive now from the financials that we've seen.
Research Division</strong> And then the note -- just the size of the note now so is -- how much and then -- and what's accruing then going forward just so I understand the math.
Well the note I believe at year end is roughly $1.6 million.
The deferred rent is obviously in there as well.
The additions to the note in January as well.
So it's going to grow north of -- actually it was $2.9 million at year end and then as you grow it'll grow north of $4 million by -- as we get further into the year depending on New Jersey.
Research Division</strong> And then just going back to the share repurchase program for a second I guess if you look at like yesterday's trading right in the afternoon would you have been able to be in the market when things like that happen? Or would you be blacked out because of earnings? As you know we set this up in November.
We did not put a 10b5 plan in place prior to our lockout which was December 15.
And so we could not -- we didn't -- we were not able to do anything during the course of December 15 through today.
So effective tomorrow the window opens and we can act on volatility.
We may decide to put in a share -- a 10b5-1 program but we have not done that yet.
That would allow us to purchase at any time.
Without that the window opens tomorrow.
Research Division</strong> Because you've announced the share purchase plan and you were effectively in blackout for earnings you couldn't act on your share repurchase plan? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> But if you had a 105b plan in place where you set a certain price to the -- an outside party to a broker they would be able to act on that behalf with the volatility? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> And then as you -- I guess as you've investigated a little bit do you have any sense of what occurred yesterday? It would seem pretty traumatic from a volume perspective on 0 news.
You know what Mike we can control the leasing we can control the development.
The idea of -- we did not get any phone calls.
We did not -- we don't have any color on that.
Research Division</strong> And so your specialist on the floor didn't sort of highlight to you that you crossed...
No they don't typically tell us who it is or why it is.
They normally trade through an intermediary and we don't understand why it was.
Research Division</strong> I mean does it concern -- I guess there has been some stuff that's happened in the past with trading in terms of some ex-board members.
Does it concern you at all the volume and the price action yesterday especially relative to the disclosure today? I mean does that -- does it give you pause that something else may be going on either outside the company or inside the company? No.
Not at all.
No not at all.
The next question will be a follow-up from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question.
I just wanted to confirm there are no other tenants that have the ability to put back space at their option? That's correct not at their option.
It'd have to be -- again no other tenants on a watchlist.
No other tenant is of concern.
So the answer's no.
Yes.
And Tayo the options of the tenant in Chicago we had disclosed that during every call.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time.
Thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to providing future leasing updates and showing continued growth in 2013 and 2014.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's call.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Welcome to DuPont Fabros Technology's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager for the company.
Mr.
Warnke you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's First Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are: Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Foster the company's Chief Accounting Officer.
Jeff will be filling today for Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer as he is out sick.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which the explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good morning everyone.
I'm glad you could be with us today as we review DFT's first quarter results and plans for continued growth.
Our strategy of developing ground up highly efficient data centers that cater to Fortune 1000 companies continues to pay off.
Our ability to execute on this strategy resulted in another quarter of solid growth.
FFO per share increased 18% and revenues increased 12% over the prior year.
We also have increased the midpoint of our 2013 FFO per share guidance by $0.04 per share.
We plan to continue our growth by leasing the balance of our portfolio and developing our pipeline.
First let us talk about leasing.
Our record leasing last year of 41 megawatts took down most of our available inventory.
Our total 218-megawatt portfolio is now 91% leased.
This leaves us with approximately 20 megawatts availability the bulk of which is located in NJ1 and VA3.
During the first quarter we signed one lease for 2.28 megawatts in Santa Clara with a prominent cloud-based company.
Experience has shown us that as our tenant's business grow their data center requirements also grow.
This provides considerable upside for DFT's organic growth.
We are optimistic that this new tenant fits into this pattern and will require additional space.
They're a wonderful addition to our roster.
We look forward to building our relationship with them and becoming their trusted data center provider.
With the new lease signed at Santa Clara we're now -- we now forecast our unleveraged return on investment in Phase I will be between 9% and 9.5%.
Santa Clara is currently 88% leased.
We are cautiously optimistic that the remaining available space will be leased up within the next quarter.
We are in discussions with tenants and providing tenant tours for space in Phase II of Santa Clara.
You should expect an announcement on Phase II development once we've signed a pre-lease.
Chicago continues to be a very strong market for us.
As you recall one of our tenants surrendered a 1.3-megawatt room to us in January of 2013.
This provided us with much-needed inventory within this market.
Subsequent to the quarter's end we leased the space to a current super wholesale customer which took space last quarter in 3 of the 4 markets.
Over and beyond the 1.3-megawatt lease in Chicago they also have pre-leased a 433-kilowatt room in Chicago which is currently leased to another tenant and scheduled to expire at the end of the year.
Due to the small size of the current tenants and their need to conserve cash early in the lease their cash rents were significantly above the current market rates.
One of our super wholesale tenants who leased approximately 35 megawatts of critical load from us has released the space effective January 1 2014.
This quick turnaround enabled us forego any vacancy capital expenditures and leasing commissions while meeting the needs of a very valuable customer.
Given the dynamics the cash-on-cash reduction for this individual lease is approximately 36% which aligns with our super wholesale pricing.
The new rate for this specific space only decreases the total building rent by 0.5%.
The gap decline is only 1% given the fact that the back end nature of the rent in the original lease structure.
This means total cash from the new lease is only 1% less than the total cash from the current lease and we upgraded the credit quality of the tenant.
To capture future demand of this market we need to secure lands and commence development of CH2.
Land in Elk Grove is readily available.
We've been looking at several sites over the last few months.
Our plan is to secure a parcel of land this year.
We will discuss the timing of CH2 after we have secured the site.
Our inventory in Northern Virginia consists primarily of 6.39 megawatts of critical load in VA3.
Within the past week we have completed an upgrade of VA3's lobby the building security entrance [indiscernible].
With the upgraded security features this facility is a first-class data center in every respect.
We're confident that with this upgrade available space will lease up.
The New Jersey market for wholesale data center space continues to be slow.
The remaining 39% leased -- we remain 39% leased as of today.
The current tenant who leased approximately 7 megawatts -- the current tenant who leased approximately 7 megawatts in NJ1 are comfortable with the design of the building.
Hurricane Sandy demonstrated the resiliency of the Iso Parallel design in New Jersey and convinced many of our customers that it is the best in class.
Current interest in NJ1 is coming from enterprise and financial services.
We have been conservative in our modeling and assume no additional earnings contribution from NJ1 in 2013.
That said we are bullish on its earnings capacity for 2014 and beyond.
In the interim it's worth noting that the property is held free and clear and carries no debt.
Next let me anticipate your questions on pricing.
We do not disclose individual tenant rents as it is bad for our business and doesn't help in our next lease negotiations.
It violates our nondisclosure agreement.
What we can say is that the pricing is holding and continues to provide us with our anticipated yields.
Our super wholesale tenants do not receive -- our super wholesale tenants do receive preferred pricing as they take down large amounts of space within our market.
Even at volume pricing we're able to maintain our spreads between our cost of debt and unleveraged returns.
Here are some examples.
80% of ACC6 critical load is consumed by 3 super wholesale tenants.
At the beginning of April 1 2014 when the ramp has expired on Phase I of ACC6 we will achieve a cash-on-cash ROI of 13%.
Beginning January 1 2015 when the ramp expires in Phase II of ACC6 the cash-on-cash return on investment will be approximately 11%.
The blended gap return for the building achieved an unleveraged return in excess of 12%.
Let me comment on our growth strategy and then announce a development structure.
As you know we are and continues to be a ground up developer of highly efficient data centers.
Our current focus remains on building out our current market -- in our current market.
This will give us the best risk-adjusted returns of capturing organic growth from our tenants.
We will continue to look at new markets.
However we would not enter any new market without the significant pre-lease in hand.
Additionally each market would need to be evaluated on its own merits.
We will continue to look at acquisitions it is only prudent for us to do so.
However many of them will not align with our criteria and pricing.
Nothing is on the horizon at this time.
In short we're speaking with our strategy of providing superior just-in-time inventory to Fortune 1000 customers in our core markets.
On that note we're pleased to announce that we have commenced development of ACC7 to capture customer demand in our best market.
We spent the last 2 years improving our design to lower our overall operating cost for our customers.
We expect 3 major benefits from the new design.
First we expect to achieve a PUE of 1.2 directly benefiting our tenant's overall expense structure.
Second moving to a single electrical ring bus provides more resiliency and help us decrease our development cost.
Third we're now capable of delivering our products in smaller increments as low as 5.9 megawatts which enables us to accurately match supply and demand while reducing the risk of CapEx spend and carrying costs.
Well the Ashburn campus leasing has been very strong.
Historically as we announced the building a considerable amount of space gets pre-leased prior to delivery.
Given the strength of this market we have commenced development of 11.89 megawatts of ACC7 and expected to be delivered in the second quarter of 2014.
This is an exciting time for our business.
We are confident in our strategy and ability to execute.
We stand by our investment theses and believe that our growth prospects are very promising.
We're backing up that confidence in 2 ways.
First starting in the second quarter we will increase our quarterly dividend from $0.20 per share to $0.25 per share.
This increase more than doubled the payout from this time last year.
Our financial performance supports the board's decision to increase our common dividend by 25%.
Second in the first quarter we purchased $38 million of DFT share.
The average stock price was $23.12 per share.
Late last year DFT's board authorized $80 million for a stock repurchase program.
Our current debt covenant allow us to repurchase up to $160 million.
With that I will turn over the call to Jeff who will discuss our financial performance.
Thank you Hossein.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to cover 4 main topics today: Our first quarter 2013 results a capital markets update a 2013 guidance update and lastly the dividend updates.
For the first quarter of 2013 company's FFO was $0.40 per share compared to $0.34 per share in the first quarter of 2012 an increase of 18%.
The $0.40 per share in the current quarter includes a $0.02 charge due to the one-time write-off of deferred loan cost related to the early pay off the agency 5 loans.
Excluding this charge FFO increased $0.08 per share or 24%.
AFFO was $0.38 per share for the first quarter compared to $0.31 per share quarter-over-quarter an increase of 23%.
These increases are primarily a result of the increased lease commencements in cash rents collected from tenants.
The gap between our FFO and AFFO is tightening as the ramp from recently commenced leases has burnt off.
Quarterly revenues were $87.8 million.
This is an increase of $9.4 million or 12% quarter-over-quarter.
Estimate capital markets update we closed on a new secured loan of $115 million at ACC3.
The proceeds of this loan combined with cash on hand went to pay off our secure loan of $138 million on ACC5.
The ACC loan -- the ACC3 loan has a lower interest rate than the ACC5 loans by 115 basis points.
This transaction also extended the maturity from December 2014 to March 2018.
Our next scheduled principal payment is not until December 2015 which is the first installment of $125 million on our $550 million unsecured bond.
As a reminder we have an option to pay off these bonds after December 15 2013 for a 4.25% premium.
At current interest rates this looks attractive to us.
We may be able to save approximately 300 basis points on the refinancing.
This could increase future FFO by approximately $0.20 per share.
Simultaneous with the closing of the ACC3 loan we moved ACC5 ACC6 and SC1 into our unencumbered pool creating $775 million of additional assets in this pool from which to borrow against.
As Hossein discussed during the first quarter we purchased approximately 1.6 million shares of our common stock totaling about $38 million at an average price of approximately $23 per share.
We utilized the lines of these purchases.
We have $42 million available from the $80 million program approved by the board last year.
We will purchase additional shares if we believe it is in the best interest of our shareholders maximizes our risk-adjusted returns for the company and it's the best use of our capital.
To date we've drawn $70 million on the $225 million line leaving $155 million available for future use.
We expect in the somewhere between $155 million to $160 million to construct the shell of ACC7 all underground conduits and place the first 11.89 megawatts in service.
Cash from operations and a portion of available ROI will be used to fund this development.
In our current assumptions of the completion of the ACC7 Phase I development we anticipate $70 million to $90 million to still be available on the line.
I would now like to discuss our 2013 guidance.
Our second quarter 2013 FFO guidance range is $0.45 to $0.47 per share.
We increased and tightened our full year FFO guidance range from $1.76 to $1.90 per share to $1.82 to $1.92 per share.
This increased the midpoint by $0.04 per share.
The increase in the midpoint is primarily due to earlier commencements of leases and forecasts the share buybacks in Q1 and the lower interest rate on the ACC3 loan partially offset by the $0.02 per share charge from the ACC5 loan payoff which was not included in our original guidance.
The lower end of the guidance range assumes no new leasing for the rest of 2013.
The overall guidance also assumes no new leasing in New Jersey.
ACC7 is the only development we've included in the 2013 guidance.
However we may commence SC1 Phase II if we can obtain a pre-lease.
The 2013 guidance continues to assume no new debt or equity raises for the remainder of this year and also assumes no additional buybacks of our common stock.
As Hossein mentioned previously we increased our quarterly dividend 25% from $0.20 per share in Q1 to $0.25 per share in Q2.
Our policy remains to distribute 100% of taxable income and all dividend increases must be approved by our board.
Our balance sheet continues to be strong and provides us with a foundation to grow the company.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Jeff.
But before we open up the call for questions let me offer 3 final comments.
First I would like to thank everyone at DFT for their continued dedication and hard work.
Second the success of our business have been developing highly efficient wholesale data center solutions.
This is our core business and foundation.
We will continue along this path and offer our tenants the best solution for their needs.
Lastly we believe in the fundamentals of the data center markets and are poised to capture our share of its future growth.
With that I'll open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Just looking at the second phase of Santa Clara how much would you need to get pre-leased to break ground on that? It depends on the credit quality and on the ramp but I think what we're thinking about is anywhere between 6 to 9 megawatts.
And then would you be building under the same small increments that you're going to be doing? Well I mean it depends on how much the pre-leasing is.
It will take us -- we believe delivery will be in the first quarter of 2014 depending on when we start.
So give it 8 months from the time we start.
So assuming a -- depending on when we start it'll be 8 months.
So we'll have 8 months of work to do on our leasing as well.
So given that we'll probably depending on the amount we may or may not build all of it or half of it.
Got you.
And then if we look at ACC7 was there an increase for the size of the total project to I guess that was 41.5 megawatts from 36 previously? Yes yes.
There was an increase.
And what strategy -- is that demand driving that? Yes I thought that's what you're asking.
The couple of things helped.
One is that it's more efficient to operate the larger buildings as we've said in the past.
Second the way our UPS modules worked down it's worked up to that exact number on the 5.
And thirdly we had the available land to be able to build a bigger build.
And on the efficiency comment there the fixed operating expenses inside the data center will now be spread over 41.6 megawatts versus 36.4 which will result in lower operating expenses for our tenants.
And then Hossein for my last one just -- in the past you had spoken about 4.5-megawatt build increments now you're talking about 5.9-megawatt build increments.
What has changed internally in your design...
We can still build 4.5.
We think it's more efficient to build 4 rooms rather than 3 rooms that's what drives it -- drove it.
But then not at all [indiscernible] either way.
But 4 large rooms would be more efficient too on a -- from a construction standpoint.
But from a technical standpoint we'll be able to each build 3 rooms but it's just the efficiency is more.
Our next question is from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just follow up on ACC7 the design specifically and then the expected yield as result of the greater scale.
One I'm curious is the spec of the new design similar to the existing prototype that was built in Northern Virginia and Santa Clara New Jersey in that -- in an N+2 design.
And second just what's the expected yield on cost? The electrical design is similar except that instead of having 2 electrical ring buses on either side of the building now we have one electrical ring bus.
The cooling design is modified so that we're getting to a 1.2 PUE.
The expected yield will be similar to ACC6 or maybe even slightly better depending on the amount of super wholesale leasing.
I would like to remind you that ACC6 was 80% super wholesale and we achieved a 12% unlevered yield and our expected construction costs here on the high end of the range is similar to ACC6.
Research Division</strong> So 12 unstabilized once fully developed would be the anticipation.
That is correct.
Research Division</strong> And would the same go for Santa Clara Phase II overall? I know you mentioned that Phase I is expected to be at a 9 to 9.5.
But how would you -- how should we think about Phase I? I think the overall building -- we expect the overall building at this time to be a 9 to 9.5 as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly plans on financing you've obviously got the bulk of the financing or all of the financing lined up or ACC7 Phase I.
Just under the revolver and with your cash flow I'm curious how would you fund if you were to start Santa Clara 1 Phase II as well as the acquisition of more land in Elk Grove? Okay.
This is Jeff Jordan.
Right now as I mentioned at the end of ACC7 we still think there'll be somewhere between $70 million to $90 million available on our line.
But as you know we would need more than that.
So our line has accordion feature that would allow us to take it up to $400 million so we certainly would look at that.
And also as I had mentioned at the end of this year we're definitely considering refinancing our bonds and we could upsize those bonds so probably just add ACC5 ACC6 and Santa Clara into the bond pool.
So it's -- so there's 3 options.
Our next question is from Matt Rand with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I understand you're not comfortable talking about the individual tenant leases.
I'll try to frame this away where you can maybe give some big picture color on the portfolio.
The gap rent on executed leases during the quarter fell to $104 per kilowatt per month from $108 previously.
The other change is there is an increase 12.8 megawatts in leased space.
If all you did during the quarter was add that 12.8 megawatts of new leases the implied gap rent would be just $46 per kilowatt per month.
So I assume there are other changes to the portfolio and namely the space that net2EZ gave up.
Can you talk about the moving pieces here a bit? What drove that...
Sure.
I think the $46 is you're doing something wrong there and you should follow-up with Jeff on that.
Research Division</strong> Well it's just subtracting the gap number from 12.31 -- just taking the 3.31 gap number subtract the 12.31 gap number divide it by the incremental change in megawatts.
Yes.
Matt this is Jeff.
So the biggest part of the change the 13-megawatt is that ACC6 Phase 2 is added to the operating portfolio and all 13 megawatts were super wholesale they certainly are not at a $46 rate.
What I think is that impeding the math is that not all of those 13 megawatts have commenced.
So over the next 12 months you're not going to get 12 months of rent for those 13 megawatts.
You make get 6 months so that will be driving your calculation down and we don't provide the details of that in our disclosures.
Yes and if you remember from my prepared remarks I mentioned that January 1 2015 the ramp on the Phase II of ACC6 runs out.
At that time is where the ramp is finished and everyone is paying a full rent.
But I can tell you the reason for the $108 to $104 is that the only thing that really came through is ACC6 Phase II and that building is 100% super wholesale.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
So it's not being skewed by tenants leaving it's more of a factor of the timing of commencements? Yes timing of the commencement and it just so happened the entire Phase II is 3 tenants and every one of them is super wholesale.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then given that more of your leasing seems to be going to super wholesale tenants and you talked about that 36% reduction on that one very tiny piece of space what's the mark-to-market across your portfolio right now? Well let me address that because I think I little bit botched up my prepared remarks on that.
That particular tenant was the first tenant that we ever signed up in Chicago.
And if you remember 5 years ago with every new market we have a slower type of start when enter a new market.
That particular tenant had a huge amount of a very long ramp or free rent which meant their ending rent was extraordinarily high.
So they ended up with a rent that finished in December 2013 which was super high and that resulted in a big drop going from less than 0.5 megawatt to a tenant that had leased over 35 megawatts with us.
So we were going from a tenant that increased in size by 70x the original lease.
So obviously that tenant is going to get a better lease.
And by the way that new tenant is a AAA type of credit where the original tenant was not.
So I think the -- if you look at all our leases I mentioned in the past the -- if they were to be mark-to-market today my estimate it would be -- that would be somewhere around -- under 8% -- 5% to 8% I would say.
But if you think about it it really has no effect on cost right now and it may never have an effect to us going forward because of the following reasons.
One the average lease term is 7.2 years out.
So we don't really -- will not recognize any of that for 7.2 years.
And if you take the 4 large tenants that are super wholesale we've disclosed in the past that 2 of them have already been repriced and they have -- or one of them has a 15-year lease so that's already been dealt with.
One of them is 1/3 of their leases got done April of last year so there leaves only 2/3 of their leases.
And that tenant does not expire -- their leases doesn't come off until the middle of 2018.
So the only tenant left is the [indiscernible].
And frankly I don't know what they're going to do on ACC2.
So when you look at it on overall we have the remainder -- that remains only 15% of our leases expire before 2017.
So the exposure is really minimal.
And by that time market rents may have gone up significantly.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
But on new developments the exposure will be kind of all of your space? Well on new development we still expect to get 12% unlevered returns as we did on ACC6 just a couple of quarters ago.
Our next question is from Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> My 2 questions first of all the 5-year lease term from the SC1 and Chicago 1 leases I'm just wondering is that kind of the new norm that we should expect going forward because it's a little bit below average? And then I wondered about your thoughts on introducing more connectivity into your buildings and featuring connectivity and peering a [ph] sort of an extension over your existing product as some of your peers have done? That's a really good question.
The -- no the 5 years we have always done 5 years and 10-year leases and sometimes 15.
But it depends on the credit quality it depends on the pricing of the lease and it depends upon how we feel about the tenants and its future prospects of growth.
So it's not necessarily the new norm.
It just so happened this way and the data we were drawing from right now was only a couple of leases.
The -- on the connectivity we do have a significant amount of carriers now and it's a great question.
In the Ashburn campus we've got 25 carriers; in the VA3 campus we have 12 carriers; in Chicago we've got 11; in New Jersey we have 17; and in Santa Clara we've got 6 carriers.
So our long term we do expect to put in a switch in each one of our 4 markets that allows our tenants to interconnect with each other and for potentially tenants outside our building to connect to our carriers.
It is less -- for our wholesale tenants and super wholesale tenants it is less important for them the connectivity because most of those tenants do have -- carry dark fiber and are connecting through their own dark fiber carriers because they want to pay less for connectivity.
So it's less important for -- the connectivity is less important for the wholesale tenants.
But long term we do expect to have a switch at each one of our markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then curious on the Chicago one lease was that an existing tenant upsizing the requirements or was that a new logo? Yes it was an existing tenant upsizing their requirement but I think I've mentioned that it was a tenant that had already had 35 megawatts or so with us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then any thoughts big picture on just a little competitive intensity? And has that changed at all since the last conference call in any of your 4 markets? Well I think as the supply has dried up in Santa Clara and in Chicago we expect those markets to tighten up.
Virginia has always held and New Jersey is what it is.
But we're not -- in our guidance we're showing no future leasing in New Jersey but we hope to do better than that obviously.
But we do feel that the markets -- or the supply has dried up in 3 of the 4 of our markets.
The next question is from Rob Stevenson with Macquarie.
Can you give your comments about commencements and the ramp over time? Can you talk a little bit about what the future revenue is that you have leased but has not yet commenced and what's going to commence in '13 and '14 and '15? Yes.
I just have '13 in front of me Rob.
This is Jeff.
So for 2013 when you look at what commenced in Q1 and what's going to happen in Q2 Q3 Q4 there's an additional $6 million of commencements in Q2 Q3 Q4 the $6 million of extra revenue for the year of those commencements.
And then any sort of even ballpark as to how meaningful it is in '14 and beyond? I don't have that with me I'm sorry.
Okay.
And then just a question on the IRR differential between Santa Clara and Ashburn I mean how much of the 300 basis points is just land costs given where you've been able to control the land? And over time how much of it is rental rate? And then how much of it is construction costs? And maybe additional seismic stuff that you need in Santa Clara that you might not need in Ashburn or any of the other markets? Well I think it's all of those things and the cost of labor in Santa Clara.
So we do seismic.
That's made the building more expensive.
The labor is more expensive in Santa Clara.
We have the higher capitalized interest costs in Santa Clara because of the start and stops in that market.
Jeff do you want to? Yes the cost of the SC1 Phase I is about 50% higher per megawatt than what we've put on the Ashburn campus for all the reasons you indicated.
And we just have to be able get rents that are 50% higher than the Ashburn campus to get to the same 12% return.
Where are sort of market rents Santa Clara versus Ashburn? Well I think on the super wholesale side we're getting exactly the same rent in Santa Clara and in Ashburn.
It's just our construction costs were around significantly different lower in Ashburn.
Your next question is from John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Jeff going back to last quarter I had been under the impression that perhaps we're going to see a carryover charge from the net2EZ situation perhaps the reserve restructuring.
Did that -- can you give us an update there and on the tenancy as well? Yes.
So in the fourth quarter of 2012 we took our reserve against net2EZ and we recorded about $3 million reserves.
And the first quarter January was the only month with net2EZ before we had the restructuring in place.
So in January we did the reserve and it was only around $300 000.
So there's a big decline there.
They have paid all their rents currently in February March and April and May at this time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Hossein question for you on NJ1.
What's the strategy with that asset in that market going forward? Is New Jersey a core market? Would you look to sell that asset? What's the thought process? No.
Our intent is to keep the asset.
It has no debt on it and we will continue to work on it leasing.
We didn't want to -- our strategy was to under-promise and hopefully over-deliver so I put 0 on our guidance up to -- and we hope to do better than 0.
But it's a great asset.
All the tenants of the building they have to understand the interest have understood this infrastructure love the asset and we believe the tenants in the building will grow with us.
And we are continuing to get tours on the asset so on -- our new tenants.
So it is a core market for us.
We also do feel that once tenants these financial services and financial reporting-type companies and enterprise-type companies when they do occupy a space like in New Jersey they will be stickier than the Internet-type.
So long term it will be a great market for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So assuming that one -- or once you do get NJ1 leased up what's the process for moving forward? Would you break ground on another project in New Jersey? Well I think once New Jersey 1 the first phase has leased up we will look for pre-leases to build parts of Phase II.
So we're not going to be looking for any new land but Phase II is available and part of incremental return on new investments will yield higher returns because part of the money on Phase II up on the shell [ph] on the land has already been spent.
So the incremental investment and the risk-adjusted returns on Phase II has always been better than the Phase I for us.
Our next question is from Young Ku with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hossein I think you mentioned this but you said that the potential start at SC1 Phase II would still be around 9% to 9.5% return? Yes.
So the entire -- what I said was the entire building would be 9% to 9.5%.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I mean is that the new norm in Santa Clara then? Because I remember when you first kick started Santa Clara there has been some irrational pricing in the market.
But it seems like you're okay with kind of like 9% to 9.5% churn going forward.
I think that's what we're predicting for now.
And I think we'd be -- see we look at a couple of things other than the rent.
We look at the tenant's prospect for growth and also credit quality.
The credit quality of the tenant we have in the first phase which we hope will expand to the second rate are possibly the best credit quality tenant in the market.
And with that type of credit quality we're okay with that type of return.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
And help me understand this a little bit.
I'm just trying to get my hands around macro picture.
How much have wholesale rents changed since you guys went IPO? Well I think I can comment.
What certainly happened is that there is a division between wholesale and super wholesale.
A tenant like one of our top 4 tenants that occupy the 8 megawatts 10 megawatts 15 megawatts or more that is able to build their own data center.
The rent has been reduced from somewhere around below 100 say 105 to -- say to mid- to low-80s.
But that tenant was one where the market thought would be going out long-term and doing their own.
We've proven the thesis wrong that we're still able to get 12% unlevered return and maintain and keep those tenants long-term.
So that's what happened in the market.
The -- on the regular type of tenants we're doing deals -- the regular 0.5-megawatt 1-megawatt tenants we're doing deals somewhere depending on the credit quality depending on what we need in Ashburn around 105.
LLC Research Division</strong> Does it concern you that super wholesale tenants the lease of renting way it might continue to go down? No I think they're holding at these levels and we -- the deals we did last year and the deals we did this year are up 2.5% to 3% from last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just one last quick question.
You talked about some financial tenants potentially looking for space in New Jersey.
There was a recent report saying that a major firm took a space in Orangeburg New York.
How was that market compared to New Jersey and do you see it as a threat? I don't really know which deal you're particularly talking about.
If we sell a multi-tenant-type building because there's always going to be a tenant especially the financial one that want a build-to-suit and want their own security and may not want to be a multi-tenant building.
So on and off we'll see a deal that will come and be taking the tires but the reality of it is they really want their own building or be a single-tenant building and that may have been one of those.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you don't see that as a major threat? No.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question is from Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
ACC7 just I guess one of the few instances in Virginia where you're kind of actually building without any pre-leasing just kind of wondering why you felt comfortable with that and generally what you're hearing in regards to demand for space in that market? That market has historically been our best market.
Anything we've leased be built in Ashburn have leased in very short order.
We have a embedded demand in the Ashburn campus from 100-plus megawatts of existing tenants that are asking and need to grow.
So we have an embedded organic growth in that market that we feel very comfortable with.
We also have the benefit of the sales tax in that market that will also accrue to the tenants in ACC7 where tenants occupying ACC7 will not have to pay sales tax on the server they purchased.
So with all those given factors and our historical track record in Ashburn we're comfortable putting out 11 megawatts 12 megawatts without any pre-lease.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then going back to SC1 I mean a quarter or 2 ago it seemed like the bookings [ph] for that asset was more a 10%.
Now we're talking 9% 9.5%.
Is that you acknowledging that pricing continues to remain under pressure in that market or what really changed? No I think the issue is -- look between 9.5% and 10% is not that much of a difference.
But when you look at it they're not just one category of tenants.
It is -- when you look at the tenants you look at their business model how fast they're going to grow.
Second you look at their credit quality.
Is it the Fortune 50 or Fortune 10 type of company that you know you'll always be collecting rent on time and you make sure that there are never any issues.
Sometimes when we look at a tenant and say look this tenant were willing to make an investment in the relationship and we really want this one particular tenant because we know they're really going to grow.
So when you look at the subset of tenants that we're looking at there are 2 or 3.
I can't tell you specifically what has affected market rent because it really hasn't.
If anything that market had tightened up.
But the opportunities we had we decided to make a deal with those tenants because we believe long-term that's the best prospect tenants for our business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then also last question on the VA3 space.
Now that the lobby and the renovation is done could you kind of give us a sense of what kind of interest you're seeing in that space given that it's lower-density space? Yes we're seeing good interest.
And lower density because we lease space per kilowatt doesn't necessarily mean that's less because it works very well for a reseller of the business because they need space for their corridors and whatnot.
But it also has the same flexibility for a wholesale or super wholesale type.
So I think the lobby renovation certainly helped.
And we're now poised to be able to lease that up.
And the fact that the market is so tight that we almost have no space left in Ashburn would direct all our tours towards VA3.
Our next question is from Bill Crow with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of topics.
First of all you did make a comment and we've seen historically that Phase IIs have done better than Phase Is given the infrastructure investment et cetera.
But that doesn't seem to be the case so much anymore ACC6 versus ACC Phase II of 6 because of the super wholesale.
It sounds like SC1 and SC2 Phase II are going to be similar in that 9% range.
Is it just that the lease up has become more challenging and dominated by the super wholesale tenants? I would disagree with you Bill because the ACC6 Phase II I believe we delivered it's 100% leased.
That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I'm looking at the yields versus -- what is the yield on that versus the yield on Phase I of ACC6.
Was it higher? They're about the same.
They're about in the 12%.
I think the comments you're referring to in the past was Hossein saying how much easier and quicker it is to lease up to say to -- not that we get more yield.
That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Historically there's been I thought 100 plus basis point difference in the yield that you got in the second.
No it's always been about the same yield.
But...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the second part of that question Hossein is if you're going to get a 9% on SC1 Phase II and you can get a 12% in Virginia and we trust that you're betting the tenants that you're not exposing us to increased risk just because you're in the East Coast.
Why would you do a Phase II at 9% versus something else in a different market Chicago Virginia that might yield you a 12%? Well I think there are 2 things: one our current tenants and customers want us to grow in the Phase II; two is don't forget the incremental investment meaning we've already spent just $60 million -- we've already spent $60 million on Phase I and Phase II on Ashburn.
So that $60 million is currently capitalizing Phase II but is already being spent.
So the incremental money that we spend on Phase II will yield a significantly higher return than 9.5%.
Yes and it should be 12% or above on the incremental cash.
So in -- so that's a terrific return with a credit quality we're getting on the 10%.
So are you with me Bill? I think I answered his question.
Yes the incremental investment on Phase IIs will have a higher yield than 9.5% and I think we can also do both do both the Virginia development and the Santa Clara development and we have the balance sheet and capacity to make both investments.
Our next question is from Jon Petersen with MLV Company (sic) [MLV &amp; Co.].
Research Division</strong> Question on build-to-suit.
I wonder if you guys have -- if you pursued any of those potential opportunities whether it's corporate enterprise or some of the internet users and if you actually have been doing that.
And then along the same line we've seen some sale leasebacks in the market with various corporate users.
Wondering if you guys pursued any of those opportunities.
I think we have looked at some and we'll continue to look at some.
Well those opportunities many of the times don't give up to the multi-tenant building.
Many of the build opportunities are typically single-tenant type.
We believe that long term owning a multi-tenant building that is like a Ashburn campus or a Santa Clara-type building those buildings long-term are more valuable because the tenants within the building can share the operating costs and that overall operating costs of the building will be lower and the tenants will be able to benefit from each other.
So I think depending on returns we'll look at build-to-suits but we will remain focused on our multi-tenant buildings in our core markets.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
And actually speaking of operating costs they seem to have declined sequentially and as a percent of revenue year-over-year.
I'm just kind of trying to figure out what's driving that.
I don't think you have talked about that.
Well I think the other point that I'd like to make it's a little bit of a follow-on onto Bill Crow's question as well is Phase IIs of the asset typically our operating costs will go down when the Phase II of the asset leases up.
So we may have for example labor of 6 people handle the entire Phase I.
When we double the size of the building and go to Phase II we may only increase by 1 additional person meaning 7 DFT staff and a security.
So -- but that labor force is spread over 36.4 megawatts.
So when you look at the operating costs when we hit the Phase II the operating costs of the building drop and we show that to some of our tenants and they very much appreciate and they almost expect that operating cost reduction when we go to the Phase IIs.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's a good insight.
And then just one more question.
On ACC7 you talked about a 1.2 PUE.
I'm just kind of curious how that compares with the rest of your portfolio maybe compared to ACC6 which is a more recent one and then maybe [ph] to VA3 which was built 10 years ago.
I'm just kind of figuring out how you're spending over time.
Sure actually even VA3 is not that bad.
But let me go to ACC6.
The -- it's also important to note that we quote PUE not at the theoretical load but at the typical average load of 65% for the building.
Typically our Ashburn campus the ACC buildings are about 1.31 versus the 1.2.
So that's the type of reductions that we're going to get.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does the lower PUE directly translate to higher base rents since I assume the tenants would [indiscernible] the overall costs.
Definitely it translates to overall operating cost.
But as an example as a 1.3 and $0.06 power comps a 1.31 PUE nets up approximately at $0.06 a kilowatt of power $0.08 -- I'm sorry $8 per kilowatt on the cooling load of the tenants.
Going from the 1.31 to a 1.2 that $8 which is the chiller load of the building will go to approximately $4.
So this is saving the tenants $4 per kilowatt on that tenant.
So if the tenant's overall rent was 100 they're going to end up being approximately all-in including at 80% load being around $180 per kilowatt is their total bill of rent operating expenses management crack load cooling and power so it'll be about $180.
Out of that $180 the cooling load will make it drop about $4 a kilowatt to about $176.
So a lot of it is also tenants wanting to be greener and save power.
So the metric of the dollars will save them about $4 a kilowatt from the $180.
Our next question is from Bill Crow with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Hossein the second part of my question really involves the fact you have very little lease rollover in the next few years.
So I think it's something you highlighted on the call today 15% I think you said through '15? I think it's through '16 till the end of '16 beginning of '17 I think I outlined.
Is that correct Jeff? That's correct.
Yes so to the beginning of '17 we've only got 15% but that is correct.
So -- and our leases have almost no outs at all and have a fixed rental escalator in all of them which are about 2% or 3%.
And our leases all are really true triple-neck in that 100% of the operating costs.
And we've been very religious about that model get passed through to the tenants.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I appreciate all that.
And that with the combination of your positive outlook and the markets with a little new supply et cetera my question is why would you lease any of that expiring space to super wholesale tenants? And maybe you won't but if they are pressuring rents you have so little rollover it may take you a month or 3 months longer.
But don't you at this point for the stabilized portfolio hold out for the higher rents? To some degree you can; to some degree you want to please your growing type of customers as well.
So it's a balance.
I'm not saying -- it's a balance and also taking -- sometimes taking the lease in hand that makes sense rather than waiting for the higher rents.
So we'll try and optimize in every which way we can but under the lever of taking something in hand and moving on especially if it's got tremendous credit quality.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I hear you.
The challenge we all face is trying to figure out what the true yields are and where they're heading so that's why I'm asking the question.
But I think you can assume that in Virginia we'll get 12% of better yields and we've outlined what they are in the other markets.
I think in Chicago we'll get 12% or better.
And then in Santa Clara about 9.5%.
So those are the unlevered yields we're getting which -- with tremendous credit quality which in my books with our cost of capital with our cost of debt well it yields up tremendous positive leverage.
Our next question is from Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> It's Rob.
I'm here for Jonathan.
Property operating costs seem to have declined as a percentage of revenue.
I was wondering if that's utilities and if that's a seasonal effect or if it's operating leverage and if it's sustainable.
It's mostly utilities and what we call direct to record [ph] the direct charges that we pass through to our tenants.
And a big portion of that is one of our larger super whole tenant -- super wholesale tenant from the Ashburn campus is doing a pretty large server refresh so they have a lot of their servers out of commission in the first quarter and then dropped the pass-through but had no impact on our margins.
But you saw it come down in the property operating costs and the recoveries from tenants weren't up to where they would've been otherwise.
One other thing to note is that we do get a 5% management fee which is calculated on 5% of rent and operating expenses.
So that could come out to $7 $8 a kilowatt as our portfolio leases up that you can look at that as additional rent rather than an offset of operating expense.
Our next question is a follow-up from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
If we look back to your comments on Santa Clara earlier in response to my previous question Hossein you made it sound like it would an 8-month build and then there's a potential for it being delivered at the beginning of 2014.
Did I mishear that or...? Well I think depending on when we start.
So I think maybe I misspoke.
My thought was to say 8 months we would deliver it but we would not start the process unless we had a significant pre-lease.
So you'll get an announcement -- when you get an announcement of the pre-lease and the start 8 months from then we'll be able to deliver.
Got it.
And if we go back to your comment about rents or market rents being 5% to 8% lower is that a cash-to-cash basis a GAAP-to-GAAP basis a mix of the 2? Maybe it's cash-to-cash statistics.
And then if we look at the New Jersey tour volumes have the volumes of tours there increased? And maybe kind of how many potential users are you kind of seeing in the market or at least...
In touring I want -- we're touring -- continue to tour 2 or 3 people or tenants a week.
Some -- many of those are repeat tenants and it's somewhat typical of a New Jersey tenant where in Virginia or in Santa Clara they have 2 tours and we have 3 guides being a decision maker of the major Fortune 50 company and needing additional space.
In New Jersey we're dealing with maybe 15 people making a decision within that company.
And instead of 2 or 3 tours we may have 10 tours of the same tenants before they make a decision.
Much of the growth in the 3 of our 4 markets is revenue-driven and where a tenant if they don't have additional data center space will impact revenue.
In New Jersey market many of the tenants' decision-making is solely surrounded on consolidation and trying to reduce cost by consolidating.
So it's a different tenant.
3 of the 4 markets are growing very rapidly and we're optimistic about it.
And Mike has a question as well for you guys.
Research Division</strong> Hossein and Jeff just a thing about your capital spend for a moment.
I guess ACC7 a total of $155 million to $160 million.
And it sounds like $65 million of that is a 2013 spend.
Is there anything else left to spend at New Jersey or ACC6 or the first phase of Santa Clara or VA3? Has all that capital been expensed at this point? Or is there more to come? They're pretty much all finished.
Michael this is Jeff.
VA3 we just finished the lobby so I'm sure we have one final bill to pay there but we're not talking millions we're talking hundreds of thousands.
And then in ACC6 Phase II we placed it in service in January and there's always a trickling of bills after that but most of that occurred in the first quarter.
So I don't really anticipate anything really additional coming there.
So to answer your question it's pretty much all spent.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so they're all like new capital committed without having -- it's just the ACC7 at least the first out of the 4 phases you want to build in terms of new capital.
And then you talked about looking for Chicago land.
Then you talked about potentially getting a pre-lease at Santa Clara.
How much would the second phase of Santa Clara be from a dollars perspective if you built that? Obviously I know you have a lot of in-placed cost already.
But how much incremental would that be? Out-of-pocket we think that's around $150 million.
Research Division</strong> And then I assume Chicago in terms of the size that you'd want to build would be the same sort of thing $150 million to $200 million in terms of total capital? Well I think in terms of total capital we don't have anything in our guidance right now.
The initial land would be something significantly less than that obviously.
So we don't anticipate a big capital spend in Chicago right now.
Research Division</strong> I guess and obviously the bond payout is obviously a hugely accretive event for you and just given where bond yields are.
But I guess how are you thinking about incremental equity at some point? Or what is the trigger point for you in terms of capital commitments right? So today you only got that $160 million on your books that you've committed to but obviously a few hundred million dollars of potential.
At what point do you have to think about equity and how would that equity come? Well I think at the moment we certainly don't need to think about equity in the near future.
I don't think we need equity right now in these foregoing 12 months so I don't anticipate any equity checks needed to be written.
We would expand right now with debt and with perpetual preferred.
Our initial thoughts are that's around -- and again nothing written in stone but when we refinance our bonds at December 15 we would upsize that from the $550 million to be able to pay down our entire line down to 0.
So assuming this $150 million spent we could upsize it to $700 million or even more to be able to pay our lines back down to 0 and then we'll have our line available which is $225 million now with the according going to $400 million.
And we have plenty -- we see our balance sheet really helping us to grow right now with -- and our intention is to do it without any equity dilution.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So I guess from your standpoint of balance sheet so under leverage today that you probably can spend I don't know let's say $500 million of incremental capital before you need $1 of new common equity? That's fair.
We don't need -- that is fair.
I wouldn't want to put a number on it but I don't anticipate any equity raises in the near future or even short-term future.
No further questions.
And I will give the call back to Mr.
Chris Warnke for closing.
Thank you.
As a reminder we will be hosting a data center tour of CH1.
That's located in Elk Grove Village Illinois on Monday June 3 beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Central Time.
Should you wish to attend please e-mail investorrelations@dft.com.
We hope to see you then.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
This concludes today's conference call.
At this time please disconnect your lines.
Welcome to DuPont Fabros Technology's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager for the company.
Mr.
Warnke you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's Second Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good afternoon everyone.
I'm glad you could join us today as we review DFT's second quarter results.
I would like to talk about leasing our plans for growth and DFT's beneficial approach to CapEx.
As you've noticed in our earnings release we have achieved the high end of our second quarter FFO guidance.
Mark will discuss this and other financial results later in the call.
At the quarter's end our overall portfolio was 91% leased.
As discussed on our last call we leased 1.73 megawatts in May which fully leases CH1.
This lease was with an Internet tenant who currently occupies data center space in 3 of our 4 markets.
They have continually grown and renewed their leases with us over the course of our 8-year partnership.
In Ashburn we reviewed one lease with a -- we renewed one lease with a systems integrator for 1.14 megawatts.
This lease was scheduled to expire on September 30 2013 and now has been extended to 2018.
As previously discussed we believe our portfolio mark-to-market is about 5% to 8% over market rates.
Cash and GAAP rent for this renewal will decrease 8% compared to its current market rent.
It's helpful to note that the average remaining lease term of our portfolio is 6.9 years.
Less than 4% of annualized base rent is up for renewal in the second quarter of 2014.
Our current availability is limited primarily to New Jersey and VA3.
Let's talk about New Jersey.
We are 39% leased on holding.
While we do not like the slow pace of customers' decision-making in this market we do like the trends we're seeing more towards a broader range of tenants and increase in the number of RFPs that we're responding to.
This is a terrific data center and has a proven design incorporating the utmost efficiency and robustness to accommodate most outsourcing.
We are totally committed to this market.
Remember there is no debt on this property and we have not included any additional leasing at NJ1 in our 2013 guidance.
Our sales team is very motivated to unlock the facility's potential.
For VA3 we have completed the lobby and security improvements to this building in May.
It has attracted positive response from our current and prospective tenants.
We remain confident that we'll be able to lease out the remaining 6.38 megawatts.
In Santa Clara we only have 2.28 megawatts of space left.
The market is strong for our product and there is considerable interest in our remaining space.
We're also touring tenants in the second half for Santa Clara.
Look for us to start an incremental development of Phase 2 as pre-leases are signed.
Prudent development of additional supply in our markets will fuel our growth.
In May we commenced development of the first phase of 11.9 megawatts at ACC7.
We expect to deliver the first phase in the second quarter of 2014.
When all the phases are complete ACC7 will total 41.6 megawatts of available critical load.
We spent several years fine-tuning and improving the design of our version 3.0 data center.
This architecture and design will allow customers significant flexibility on our computer room density and minimize their unusable critical load.
Once the building is stabilized we expect it to achieve a PUE of 1.2 or less the lowest in our portfolio.
We are confident this facility will attract new and existing customers who want to grow within our Ashburn campus.
Unlike other locations we do not have additional land in Chicago for development.
In order to capture the clear demand in this market we have identified several attractive sites for CH2.
Now let's turn to a topic of major interest in our industry CapEx.
I'd like to walk you through our lease structure and how CapEx and other items are recovered from our tenants.
Since we're a ground-up developer we have not acquired any properties with existing leases.
Every lease that we have signed is with a lease that we have written.
All our leases are triple-net.
This allows us to recover all our operating expenses.
Should these expenses go up we'll be reimbursed by our tenants.
Our triple-net lease structure protects us from unexpected increases in real estate taxes insurance utility cost and other expenses.
We take considerable steps to ensure that all our data centers are consistently maintained and operated efficiently to the benefit of the tenants' mission-critical requirements.
For example we have executed maintenance contracts with several equipment vendors and service providers for our diesel generators UPS and chilled water systems.
Most of these contracts act like extended warranties and provide for component replacements and overhaul at no additional cost.
Under these contracts the rotary UPS systems in most of our data centers are overhauled every 5 years.
This program is similar to a jet engine maintenance contract where the system is completely rebuilt.
The annual fee structures of these maintenance contracts reduce our periodic CapEx for wear and tear.
These expenses are passed through and reimbursed by our tenants in the leased space.
In the first half of 2013 maintenance on all our properties was 42% of our overall operating cost.
Although we do not incur significant CapEx related to our facilities our leases are structured to recover most CapEx incurred.
We recover these from our tenants on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the assets including a reasonable interest rate.
Here are a few examples.
New laws and regulations enacted after the facility is placed into service such as changes in environmental regulations.
We're able to recover CapEx incurred in order to comply with the new law.
An example would be if we needed to incorporate more stringent engine exhaust systems or diesel generators.
We're also able to recover enhancements that will decrease our tenants' operating costs.
Recently we replaced the fans in our track unit with variable speed drive in several of our data centers.
In doing so improved the operational efficiencies and lowered the tenant's cooling cost.
CapEx related to ordinary wear and tear is also recoverable.
An example would be a replacement of static batteries.
This recently occurred in our VA4 facility.
We replaced the batteries for the building and we're able to pass this replacement cost through to our tenants over the useful life of the batteries which is 12 years.
The strength of our lease structure allows us to recover the cost of maintenance contracts and most CapEx anyway.
It is useful to note that the average age of our data centers is just 5 years.
This results in minimal CapEx.
An example in 2012 we placed $4.8 million of capital projects into service.
Approximately 90% is recoverable over the useful life of the assets.
To date we spent $4.4 million of our projected $6 million CapEx budget.
This includes the enhancement to our VA3 lobby.
This is an item which we did not pass through to our tenants.
The 2013 recovery is projected to be 80%.
That's because we have excluded the VA3 lobby from recoveries.
So why do the tenants buy into our CapEx recovery program? It's simple.
It's in their best interest.
Our customers do not want us to be financially incentivized to cut corners on maintenance.
They want us to consistently maintain and renew our assets.
This assures them maximum efficiency and uninterrupted service.
With that I'll turn over the call to Mark.
Thank you Hossein.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to cover 4 main topics today: our second quarter 2013 results a capital markets update a guidance update and lastly our dividend.
For the second quarter of 2013 the company's FFO was $0.47 per share compared to $0.37 per share in the year-ago quarter an increase of 27%.
This increase was due primarily to higher operating income from lease commencements.
AFFO was $0.42 per share for the second quarter compared to $0.30 per share quarter-over-quarter an increase of 40%.
Our AFFO continues to increase as the ramp from previous lease signings burn off.
Quarterly revenues were $91.6 million our highest ever.
This is an increase of $8.9 million or 11% quarter-over-quarter.
Since 2009 we have continually increased our revenues each quarter and are poised to continue on that path.
As to our capital markets update we amended our unsecured line of credit increasing it from $225 million to $400 million.
Our borrowing rate remains at LIBOR plus 1.85%.
We are also -- we also included a new accordion feature to increase the line to $600 million if certain conditions are met.
While the key terms of the amendment remain unchanged we were able to add 4 new lenders to the syndication and certain existing lenders increased their commitment.
The new additional capacity enables us to fund 2 development projects without requiring additional sources of capital.
As you recall we have an option to pay off our unsecured bonds after December 15 2013 for a 4.25% premium.
We also have the ability to pay off the bonds prior to that date at a higher premium.
We are closely monitoring the capital markets and what is happening with current interest rates.
Our decision and timing to pay off these bonds will be based on our goals of minimizing the takeout premium and receiving a low interest rate on the new bonds.
Based on quotes received yesterday we believe a coupon rate of 5 1.4% to 5 1/2% remains viable for 8-year money [ph].
As noted on the 2013 guidance page of the earnings release this morning we would incur a onetime charge of $0.37 per share charged to FFO to take the bonds out on December 15 of this year.
To date we have drawn $80 million on the $400 million line leaving $320 million of additional capacity.
I now would like to discuss our third quarter and full year guidance.
Our third quarter 2013 FFO guidance range is $0.47 to $0.49 per share.
The full year FFO guidance range remains unchanged at $1.82 to $1.92 per share.
The bottom end of the guidance range assumes no additional leasing.
We have executed one lease for 4.33 megawatts commencing in Q3 and one in Q4 for 1.1 megawatts.
The interest capitalization for the development of ACC7 will increase each quarter as our spend increases.
We project $1.5 million for the remainder of 2013 $2.3 million in Q1 '14 and $2.6 million in Q2 of '14.
As we previously released we increased our quarterly dividend 25% from $0.20 per share to $0.25 per share which was paid on July 15.
This represents a current AFFO payout ratio of only 60%.
Since 2009 we have consistently increased our dividend as our financial position has improved.
Our current income stream enables us to maintain our current dividend and we are confident that when we -- when new leases are executed and commenced we will continue to increase our dividend.
Our balance sheet continues to be strong and provides us with a foundation to grow the company.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
Let me offer a few final comments and then we'll go to the questions.
On many occasions you've heard us use the phrase "leasing is lumpy." Well it is.
Customers' calendars rarely line up with public companies' earnings calls.
The important thing to note is regardless of timing of deals we're very enthusiastic about our leasing prospects.
We believe in the fundamentals of the data center market.
The Internet continues to grow and we're poised to capture our share of its growth.
We will continue to develop highly efficient wholesale data center solutions to meet current and future customers' demand.
It is our core business and how we intend to increase shareholder value.
My last comment today is to the DFT team.
Thank you for all your hard work.
Your commitment is greatly appreciated.
With that let's go to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just circle up in your last comment there Hossein on lumpy leasing.
I mean it's obviously -- there are quarters where you've had a very very significant amount of leasing and other quarters where it's been light.
So I'm just trying to dig into that to get a little bit of a better sense.
On a year-to-date basis it's obviously been a little bit light relative to your quarterly average pace of I don't know 6 or 7 megawatts per quarter since your IPO of leasing.
And I know it certainly hasn't been a straight line but that's about the average and you've done only maybe 4 megawatts year-to-date.
Could you maybe -- what gives you the confidence that there's more behind it? Are you seeing a lot of traffic no real changes? I'm just kind of curious.
Some of the competitors or peers that have reported have seen -- seem to have seen a little bit of slowing in particular lengthening of the leasing cycle particularly on the enterprise side.
And so I'm just curious about your thoughts on demand.
Sure.
I mean my enthusiasm is based on facts and fact says that our tours have increased.
We have -- we're responding to more RFPs.
We're seeing more traffic.
I can't go into the details of our Letters of Intent but we're very excited about our prospects going forward.
If you look at our history leasing like you said is lumpy.
Last year we did 41-and-change megawatts at least.
Now primarily 23 megawatts of that was in one quarter.
So it is certainly lumpy and some lumps will be small some lumps will be large.
I mean there are different aspects to what we do and I'm very excited about that is that parts of our business of being a real estate developer is buying a site.
Part of our -- the other part of it is designing and building optimizing the design constructing the design in the most efficient manner and then leasing and managing it.
So leasing is only one aspect of that comes through but we've been extremely busy with everything else.
Research Division</strong> Do you -- so you don't have nearly the availability you had a year ago but do you have confidence that this year's demand could be as significant as last year's? Well I mean I can't -- we don't have the availability just like you said.
We have very good prospects but we certainly feel like we could have had more leasing had we had products in our 2 best markets which were Ashburn and Chicago.
We're out of space there which is the great news.
Now we have to build more and we're working on that.
So yes I think -- I can't give you exact numbers on what we'll do for the year but I can tell you I'm just as optimistic this year as I was the same time last year.
What we'll do will also depend on how much product we have.
Research Division</strong> And is the traffic you're seeing -- how would you split that between new versus existing customers? Well in New Jersey it's certainly new customers.
In Virginia it is I would say 50% 70% existing customers.
In Santa Clara it's existing customers in some of our other markets.
And Chicago is a mix of both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question.
Can you maybe just give us a little bit of insight into the upcoming roll for 2014? I think you have 6 leases representing about 6 megawatts or so of power maturing next year.
Any insight into what will happen there and maybe where that exposure is market-wise? Jordan this is Mark.
Those are all in the second half of 2014 not the second quarter.
In terms of location it's primarily in the Ashburn market the ACC4 building the 5 building and one little lease at the VA3 building.
So it's all in the Virginia market and it's all second half loaded.
And there's 6 leases 4 tenants and it's early to call that at this point.
[indiscernible] Typically it depends on who the tenant is and I don't have it off hand.
We have said in our prepared remarks that we feel on the retail tenants we are -- not retail meaning retail for us which is typical wholesale.
It's about 5% to 8% off and this current renewal we just did is exactly at that rate.
Our next question is from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Maybe to follow up on Jordan's question Hossein if you would maybe share -- in terms of all of those RFPs and LOIs and stuff that you have out there what kind of drives the lumpiness? Is it that people are looking at several buildings and only going to pick one? Is it that they have sort of a shadow requirement and they're just out there sort of exploring what's available? Is it stuff that we will see come and it just hasn't? Sort of can you give us a little more color as to the themes that are happening with the leases? I mean I think the biggest issue with the lumpiness is that we only typically do a handful of deals every -- on the good quarters and the slower quarters.
So we only have 30-something tenants in our entire portfolio.
So when we do a deal that's very large and it's big.
So when you're only dealing with a subset of 6 or 7 tenants that you're working on at any one time depending on which quarter it'll come in will drive the lumpiness.
So you think that the stuff you're working on will lead to real leasing at some point over the next x [ph] quarters? Yes.
Great.
And then maybe a couple of questions for Mark.
What's the bond refinancing? I know in the past you had mentioned potentially doing something ahead of the December 15 either a swapping or otherwise fixing the rate.
Is that still in the plans? And if not what's going to make you sort of commit to a rate rather than just being at the will of the debt market? Well I think we look at it all the time.
We look at it daily weekly.
As you know it's been a crazy 60 days.
We did not do anything at this point.
We're sitting tight.
We're looking at all options and the good thing is we don't have to do anything.
I mean the 12/15 is a date that we can pull the trigger.
We still think we can pick up north of 300 basis points and we're still excited about that.
But the idea of pulling the trigger now or next month or in September that make-whole provision is real cash leaving the company permanently and I take that seriously and so does Hossein.
So I think we're still in the review cycle with a variety of banks helping us.
Great.
And then one maybe detailed question.
Your straight-line revenue seems to have changed significantly between 1Q and 2Q.
What's happening there? I think it's a -- there's only a couple of leases that started.
There's a lot of rent commencements that kicked in.
So there's only a couple left that have not commenced.
As I said one's in Q3 one's in Q4.
Our next question comes from Gabe Hilmoe with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Hossein you mentioned and you've spoken about this before about looking at a couple land parcels in Chicago.
I guess given the fact that that market's been a little tighter for you relative to maybe Santa Clara or Virginia how should we think about timing there and ultimately what's kind of the aggregate opportunity in Chicago as you see it today? I think Chicago that's only [ph] one of our best markets.
We are 100% leased and the core of our business is real estate development.
So like I said we are looking at several sites.
We like what we see.
Lucky for us we have several options.
It does make sense for us to develop close to our current campus because it makes it easier for our tenants personnel to travel back and forth between one place and the other because we do expect probably half of the tenants to be the same in the CH2 and CH1.
So without going into further details that I wouldn't be able to go into we have several sites and we are working on getting one of them.
And as soon as we do we'll be developing it right away.
Research Division</strong> I think Ross had a quick one too.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First is on the stock buyback.
I know you purchased stock in the first quarter when stock fell under $23.
You didn't do so in the second quarter.
What held you back from purchasing the stock when it fell at the end of June and are you inclined to do the same now that the stocks...
When Bernanke announced the whole market fell but at that time it was our period that we were locked out in that 45-day period.
Our standard window closes 10 or 15 days prior to quarter end Ross.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question Mark I don't know if this one's for you or not.
The OP unit count fell ever so slightly this quarter.
I think it was 41 000 OPUs and it looks like there was commensurate increase in the share count.
And that sort of followed a big change in the OP unit count in the first quarter and then a small one in the fourth quarter of last year.
Can you help us get our arms around who's converting units into shares? And why aren't we seeing Form 4s on that? Well because most of them are not -- they're part of the original investor group that were out there from the IPO.
There's at least 20 -- 15 20 25 different investors who invested in the company from the IPO.
They make their decisions on their own not necessarily with us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So this isn't Hossein or Lammot selling shares.
These are others who were -- who held -- you're saying held units at the formation of the company.
That's correct.
Our next question comes from Tayo Okusanya with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is David Shamis here for Tayo.
I just wanted to clarify.
I'm not sure if you mentioned this earlier.
The spike in the improvements to real estate CapEx is that all pretty much due to the VA3 lobby upgrade? As well as the batteries that we replaced out at VA4.
So those are the 2 big CapEx projects we had for the year.
So the $6 million that we budgeted for the year is still the right number.
So Q2 we just finished those 2 big projects.
Don't forget the batteries as I mentioned in my prepared remarks is recovered plus a reasonable interest rate.
We really shine on the CapEx issue.
DFT really shines because our leases have 0 leakage.
We even recover what some others may deem as CapEx.
For us it's recoverable.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And are you seeing any material increase in traffic at VA3 just from that upgrade being completed? Yes we do.
Our next question is from Young Ku with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question is in regard to guidance.
You guys kept it unchanged.
The low end it's pretty much all set.
But in terms of the upside generally speaking how long of a lead time is there between a lease sign and a commencement? For existing tenants that take additional space it's fairly quick.
The real lease is pretty much done.
It's an update.
New tenants do take time.
And so it's just a function of existing tenants versus new in that process.
LLC Research Division</strong> And in terms of the activity that you guys have just talked about how would you split that between existing versus new tenants? I know you broke it out kind of separately by markets but kind of overall.
Yes I think Hossein tried to explain that a little earlier.
I believe each market has its own differences.
At Ashburn we have obviously a lot more tenants so the traffic there tends to be a lot of existing.
If you look at our overall portfolio I would say back of the envelope kind of calculation approximately 60% [ph] of our leases come from existing tenants growing with us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last question regarding VA3.
Hossein I know you talked about that space being a good space for a reseller and you talked about activity there.
But are you seeing that the tenants that are potentially looking are gearing more towards kind of newer products maybe waiting for ACC7 to come online? Well ACC7 is in the second quarter of 2014 so it's quite is a ways off and we see some immediate demand that needs to also go in.
And it's not quite the same product.
VA3 is a terrific project.
Don't forget it sits on Sunset Hills Road.
There is more fiber next to VA3 on Sunset Hills Road than probably anywhere else in the country.
So from the respect of connectivity it's an optimum location.
LLC Research Division</strong> Are there meaningful rent differences between a product like VA3 and a product like ACC7? They're different.
No I would say VA3 does have a little bit higher operating expense.
So the full service rent is slightly lower.
But yet again some tenants that cannot use the density we have at the ACC campus can really use a lower-density product like VA3.
So for those tenants it's more valuable.
Our next question is from John Stewart with Green Street Advisors.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mark just for argument's sake what would the prepayment penalty be if you were to prepay the bonds before December 15? It will be the full 8.5%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Hossein you've obviously had good success in the past with your development projects particularly in Northern Virginia.
But could you please speak to the supply picture in that market? Sure.
I mean they're really us and 2 or 3 other players there that are active.
I think our product differentiates us nicely from the other players.
But having said that there is really room for all of us.
I'm always surprised at someone who comes in that is -- before Facebook became Facebook 5 years ago had you told me that their load is going to be in the hundreds of megawatts I would have said "No way." Now it certainly is.
So the Internet always surprises us at how fast a certain type of business model can grow and I've been surprised a number of times in a very positive way.
So on the supply and demand on the supply side I think it's got to a point where many of the private players cannot compete at the same cost of funds as we can.
Depth is still tough to get especially on the wholesale large type of data centers.
So I'm very optimistic about the market especially since at this time we're also able to build in smaller increments like we used to like we did not do in the past.
In the past we're building 18 megawatt-type increments.
That's been reduced to 11.5 megawatts on -- in Virginia we could have built smaller increments but obviously we feel that the demand is there and that's why we're putting out 11.5 megawatts.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Could I ask you to speak take a longer-term perspective and really describe the evolution of the industry? And the Facebook analogy is a good one.
But I guess specifically in terms of -- you mentioned CapEx and then the rents at expiration.
So would you mind giving us just your perspective on where we've come from over the last 5 years? And when we think about leasing velocity or activity it seems that perhaps the dynamic has changed.
And then when you look forward say over the next 10 years obviously the rents that will expire are above market and then we've got to think about the useful life at the end of that time.
Okay.
Let's take that question and I think it was few different questions.
So I'll try and answer the way I understood them.
On the longer term I think the Internet all of us agree is continuing to grow.
Let's take that as a given.
This is a 10-chapter book.
I would say we're in Chapter 3.
We still have a long way to go for demand to come through.
More and more businesses more and more handhelds are getting on the Internet.
We have not even begun to digitize health care the way it's supposed to be.
We -- that part of the business I see growing very very rapidly on the demand side.
On the supply side of the business our rents are locked in for 6.9 years.
Do I really know with clarity where market rents are going to be in 7 years' time? I really don't.
so -- but having said that typically we see 2% to 3% rent types of increases.
Our current portfolio I feel is 5% to 13% [ph] over market but I don't know how tight the market is going to be in 7 or 8 years.
Maybe you could repeat another part of your...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The CapEx and the useful life.
Oh yes on the CapEx issue and the useful life issue this is an issue where I'd like to challenge Green Street to come to one of our buildings and look at the different components and really annualize what is the useful life of the different components of it.
Our UPS which is our only moving part in that building is replaced at the cost paid by the annual maintenance cost every 4 or 5 years.
Everything within the building is maintained to such a degree that as soon as it's about to fail or even if there's an indication of failure that item is replaced and passed on to our tenants' operating costs.
And we can do that and maintain little operating cost because the buildings are so large.
So it's almost like a 747 that once everything is replaced that piece of aluminum can last 40 years.
It's a similar type of analogy.
And these data centers what we supply is power cooling and physical security.
On physical security well it is what it is.
It's labor and cameras.
On the power cost we already have 5% -- our loss factor on the UPS is only 5%.
So there is really very little loss there already so there's no really technology improvements that can change that dramatically.
At best it's going to go down a couple of percent.
And our cooling loads are important and we're achieving the lower PUEs but even with the lower PUEs the benefit to the tenant's overall rent is only about 4%.
So the useful life of these assets is extremely long as long as servers need power.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> We'd be happy to take you up on the offer to come out and take a tour.
Yes.
Please contact Chris and I'll take you through it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes will do.
Just lastly I mean my question was really I guess focused on the economic useful life as opposed to necessarily the physical useful life.
Well economically like I said servers will need power.
So as long as the servers -- what we supply when you have 1 kilowatt of energy going into a server it comes out as 1 kilowatt of heat.
And our buildings are engineered to cool what is supplied into the servers.
So the economic useful life as long as you believe that these buildings can supply uninterrupted power to the servers is as long as we can supply uninterrupted power.
And we can supply uninterrupted power to all the buildings potentially for 30 to 40 years as long as the buildings are maintained correctly because any item that's about to go wrong is replaced before it goes wrong and passed through to the tenants.
So your question more really means in our case is will servers continue to need power.
And my answer would be yes they do because in fact what the trend we've seen is the racks that used to 10 years ago use 3 kilowatts of power have gone to 6 to 9 and now they're 12 to 15 kilowatts per rack.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question is from Jonathan Pong with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to touch base on -- you talked about the leasing activity and some future developments and buying a land in Chicago et cetera.
But it seems like you've got a little bit more disciplined development strategy than we've seen in the last couple of years which I think is great.
Can you talk about maybe some more firm guidelines around pre-leasing and where you'd like to be in terms of getting those projects announced and out of the ground as opposed to coming out with specs we've seen historically? Well I think we've always been disciplined except where our engineering was such that to build the building we want to own as a landlord we have to build 18 megawatts.
Long term that was the most efficient building that I wanted to own 10 years from now is the building that has 18 megawatts on each phase.
In the last 12 to 18 months we figured out how to build that building in smaller increments engineering-wise.
So we've changed and now we'll be developing buildings on smaller increments but can operate holistically as a larger building once complete.
That's really what's changed.
We've always wanted to build slightly smaller type of increments except these large buildings when complete the operating cost it is so efficient.
The small building just cannot compete on that.
So that's where we were driving our development.
Our pre-leasing yes the amount we build will depend on how much pre-leasing we have.
So as an example Virginia is a little bit of an exception because we've always leased so well in there.
As an example theoretically if we had 4 or 5 megawatts of leasing in Santa Clara we would build 9.1 megawatts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fair.
And then I guess in the last several quarters you've talked maybe about acquisitions or looking for other options for growth that you continue to kind of go down that path.
Do you remain open to that or are you encouraged by the new design that you can kind of refocus your energies back within the portfolio and the existing assets? I think we always look at risk-adjusted returns and part of what makes us unique is that our product we think is -- we believe that it's superior in that one of the issues is this CapEx issue.
They're really -- one the product is superior.
The second is the CapEx issue.
On the CapEx issue we have -- the reason we haven't been able to -- one of the reasons we haven't been able to buy anything is that the portfolios we've looked at the leases have leakage in them in that if some of the leases we looked at the real estate taxes went up the landlord would eat it.
In one case if environmental regulations changed in the country and the costs went up the landlord would eat it.
In other cases if there needed to be replacement of batteries the landlord would eat it.
In our case it is very very clean with 0 leakage.
So when we look at portfolios to acquire typically they do not have the cleanliness of our leases.
So then we have to adjust the price accordingly.
Secondly we believe the redundancy we have in these portfolios in the portfolio of our assets is extremely good.
We haven't been able to see that quality assets.
Thirdly the scale of our building enable us to keep operating expenses low for -- as long as the building is fully leased as they remain very very low because we're dividing the operating expenses into 36 megawatts.
Even the largest Internet type of companies cannot match that in 1 year on their own.
So when we look at these things we have to adjust the price of the portfolios we're looking at and we haven't been able to make the price work.
But it would be not -- it wouldn't be prudent not to look so we'll continue to look.
Our next question is from Bill Crow with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quickies here.
Hossein have the market rents stopped going down? I mean the way -- it's tough for me to say exactly what it is.
Right now we're seeing deals like we said around 5% to 8% below our base average rent in our market and we're continuing to do deals in those rents.
So for us the answer would be yes.
The super wholesale deals that we're doing are going up 2% to 3% per year.
So the answer from a very small segment of the market that we deal with the answer would be yes.
But the market is much bigger than the small segment I'm dealing with.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I appreciate that.
The second question is do you have a feel for the total amount of megawatts leased in the New Jersey market and comparable space such as yours or Digital's or whoever? Do you know what the activity volume was in the second quarter? I don't have that at the tip of my hand but also it's difficult sometimes to know because of a couple of reasons to quantify because of a couple of reasons.
One is some of the space leased is going to resellers such as Savvis.
I don't really see that type of space as comparable to what we or some of our competitors have because it's a little bit formatted in a different way as to what others deem as turnkey type of space.
Some of the others is also -- what we're seeing is tenants may come and look at our space and then go out to build their own which is absorption where -- but it won't be documented anywhere in the market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
That's fair.
I wonder -- and you're talking about the lease structures in portfolios that you may look at or single assets you may look at acquiring and talk about the cleanliness of the leases.
Do you think your lease structure and the triple-net nature is putting you in a competitive disadvantage? Well it's good for you.
Does that make it more difficult to lease up to get your market share? Well I think it really hasn't.
If you look at last year we performed 41.5 megawatts of leases.
Last year we had record leasing and managed to keep 100% of our leases to the core of what we believe.
Now the way like I've said in my prepared remarks the way I and our sales team and our operating team sell this to tenants is that look do you really want us to be incentivized to penny-pinch on operating costs? Do you want us to replace any item before it goes wrong? Do you want us to make sure that everything is kept in tip-top condition? It's almost asking someone "Hey do you want to go into an operating room in a hospital that is penny-pinching or do you want to go into an operating room that's kept in tip-top condition?" Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I get that.
I mean we laugh about it but airplanes and data centers have to be as good in their 10th year as they...
Exactly absolutely.
And you exactly got it right Bill and that's how we sell it.
And we've been successful at selling it.
Look at our history.
Our next question is from Jon Petersen with MLV &amp; Co.
Research Division</strong> Just on the Santa Clara market it's fairly well known that Facebook's out there trying to sublease some of their lease space in the market as they move to some of their own data center space.
I know you guys -- at least to my understanding Facebook isn't a tenant in the Santa Clara market but from a competitive perspective are you aware of what pricing they're asking relative to what you're asking at SC1? No I don't.
And also you have to also bear in mind a couple of small things.
Our operating cost is the lowest one of the lowest in the market because the buildings are the largest buildings in the industry.
So tenants don't just look at base rent.
They also look at the overall full service rent.
So although our base rent may be higher our operating cost is lower and tenants do really look at the overall operating cost of the building.
Also some of the existing tenants we have they know that the network gear is already within DFT that the maintenance people not to double up on staff is already at DFT.
So a lot of times when you look at the overall picture it is not just the base rent.
When you look at the overall cost it's still more economical to be at DFT.
And John we'll confirm that they are not a tenant on the West Coast with us.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I understand that.
I understand the cost benefits that you guys provide.
I mean Facebook as a subleaser -- subleasers no matter what property type tend to be more aggressive in terms of pricing just to kind of get rid of space they don't need.
So I guess I'm just wondering if you guys are concerned about maybe them beating you out on pricing because traditionally you guys almost always win on pricing versus all your competitors.
Well there's available supply and our sales team is aware of it and...
I'll call it a shadow supply because also it depends on the terms of the lease but data centers are tough to sublease.
So there's also another layer of complexity which comes in that in that it will be easier if that tenant got out of the lease paid the fee and then the landlord took the new space because the complexities of mission-critical space it doesn't lend itself that well to sublease.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fair.
And this is one of the first things I think I heard of sublease in the space.
And then just one modeling question.
Tenant recoveries sequentially seemed to jump by $3 million or so.
I was just wondering is there anything onetime in there or is the $29 million the new run rate? I think it's just a function of the seasonality of things and the direct electric jump sometimes in the summer.
So I don't think -- I mean ACC6 is getting ramped up from the opening and so direct electric's probably the biggest piece of that.
Which is good news which means tenants are...
Pulling power.
Are pulling more and more power.
There are no further questions.
I will now give the call back over to Hossein Fateh.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you for joining us today.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good day and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Technology's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager for the company.
Mr.
Warnke you may begin your conference.
Thank you Jeff.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's Third Quarter 2013 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Wetzel the company's Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good afternoon everyone.
I'm happy that you could join us today as we discuss DFT's third quarter results.
As you noticed in our earnings release we delivered strong financial results increased our 2013 guidance and provided the low end guidance for next year.
Mark will provide details on the numbers later in the call.
Now I'd like to cover some of our leasing developments and balance sheet accomplishments.
Let's start with leasing.
During the quarter we signed 3 new leases and one pre-lease totaling 11.7 megawatts of critical load.
This brings our total leased operating portfolio to 94% leased which is up from last quarter's 91%.
On our last call we spent a fair amount of time talking about New Jersey.
Our work in this market is beginning to bear fruit.
In the third quarter we signed a 2.28 megawatts lease with a new Fortune 25 customer.
This tenant has the right to occupy 2 2.28 megawatts rooms during the term of their lease.
They can utilize all or a portion of their remaining available critical load up to 4.55 megawatts.
Should this occur they would pay for the additional critical load at the then-escalated rate.
If they don't utilize all the 4.55 megawatts of their critical load we can migrate their remaining capacity to Phase 2.
This is a great win for us.
It adds a new name to our tenant roster which we have been eyeing for some time.
We believe in this tenant and we're hopeful that as their requirements grow they will use DFT for their increased demand.
New Jersey is now 52% leased.
Let's move to Virginia.
As you know Virginia has been and continues to be our best market.
Our last development ACC6 opened 100% leased.
That left us with very limited inventory most of which is in Virginia -- is in VA3.
In the third quarter one of our top 4 tenants leased 2.6 megawatts of critical load at VA3.
This tenant occupies space in multiple buildings in 3 of our markets with varying degrees of tenancy.
This is a testament that one size does not fit all requirements.
Regardless of the application and the processes a tenant is running our portfolio can provide for the variable needs -- for their variable needs.
Case in point the same VA3 tenant leased 2.27 megawatts of additional space in Phase 1 of Santa Clara in the third quarter which completely filled up the building.
They also signed a pre-leased in the third quarter for 4.55 megawatts in Phase 2a of Santa Clara.
A discussion of leasing is not complete without addressing expiration.
DFT's lease expiration are less than 2% in 2014 and less than 11% over the next 4 years.
We prudently have staggered expiration dates and have been proactive with our tenants in discussing renewals.
This approach has proven successful.
During the third quarter we renewed 3 leases totaling 4.55 megawatts which were scheduled to expire in 2014.
These 3 leases are non-super wholesale tenants and require no CI and no free rent.
For these 3 renewals GAAP-based rent will increase 1% and cash-based rent will decrease 11.5%.
If you simply compare the initial base rent at the start of the lease to the initial base rent at the start of the renewal cash-based rent is basically flat.
The key point is that cash rent for these renewals are in the range of $108 to $120 per kilowatt per month which is very much in line with our expected returns.
Now let's talk about new developments.
We are active in our top 3 markets: Northern Virginia Santa Clara and Chicago.
In May we announced the commencement of ACC7.
The initial phase will be 11.89 megawatts.
We plan to deliver this capacity in the second quarter of 2014.
The new development is moving along as planned and is on budget.
We have limited available inventory in Northern Virginia.
Except for a small amount of space in ACC5 we're completely full in our Ashburn County.
Some of our current tenants within the campus will likely have additional space requirements.
We expect ACC7 will lease up in a similar fashion to our other Ashburn developments.
In September we commenced the development of 9.1 megawatts in Santa Clara.
We're calling this Phase 2a.
Our ability to develop in smaller increments enables us to match supply and demand decreasing our lease-up risk.
The 4.55 megawatts of pre-leasing we have in place mitigates this risk.
50% of the space we are delivering is already pre-leased.
Like the Ashburn development Santa Clara Phase 2a is scheduled for a second quarter 2014 delivery.
This takes us to Chicago.
In August we acquired a 15-acre parcel of land in Elk Grove Village to develop our CH2 facility.
This parcel is located across the street from our CH1 facility which provides an optimal growth plan.
Experience shows us that tenants like to take additional space within our campus as their requirements grow.
We have typically benefited from this embedded organic growth and we are poised to capture similar growth in CH2.
We are working on the design of CH2.
Due to the parcel shape size and the largest single load the utility can deliver we expect this building to approximately -- we expect this building to total approximately 26 megawatts of critical load.
We expect to commence development in the second quarter of 2014 to accommodate future tenant demand and expect to deliver the building in the summer of 2015.
We will build the entire shell.
Pre-leasing will determine how much space we will deliver.
We will be deploying our version 3.0 design for both ACC7 and CH2 while incorporating design elements of version 3.0 in the Phase 2 of Santa Clara.
This will increase the efficiency of the building and provide our tenants with flexible load solutions.
Let me give you an overview of our financial transactions.
In September we issued $600 million of unsecured bonds at 5.875%.
Given the uncertainty around macro issues and interest rates we believe it is best to act early locking in a sub 6 rate rather than wait until December to replace our of $550 million 8.25% unsecured notes.
This issuance extends our maturity by 4.5 years -- sorry by 4 years to 2021.
Additionally we obtained a new unsecured term loan due 2019 totaling $250 million at LIBOR plus 1.75%.
This is a great rate.
Both of these loans have greatly decreased our cost of debt and hence our cost of capital.
Combined with our free cash flow this provides us with enough capital to fund our new developments.
Let me take a final moment to discuss succession plans that we have announced in September.
No company's future planning is complete without a solid succession plan.
DFT is no exception.
As part of our long-term planning we've been considering deepening our bench.
We have engaged a nationally recognized search firm to help us identify the best available candidates who can bring complementary strategic acquisition and business development strengths to our team and at the appropriate time to take my role as CEO and I would move to the Executive Chair.
Our goal is to have a successful candidate in place as President by the end of first quarter 2014.
With that I will turn over the call to Mark.
Thank you Hossein.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to cover 4 main topics today: our third quarter 2013 results a capital markets update a guidance update and lastly our dividend.
For the third quarter of 2013 the company's FFO was $0.13 per share compared to $0.38 per share for the prior year quarter.
The $0.25 decrease was primarily from the $0.38 charge for the early termination of a portion of the 2017 senior notes.
Normalized FFO for the third quarter of 2013 was $0.51 per share compared to $0.38 per share of the same quarter in 2012.
The $0.13 increase is primarily due from the increased operating income excluding depreciation.
Normalized FFO which is new for us simply excludes the loss and debt extinguishment from FFO.
Adjusted FFO was $0.52 per share for the third quarter of 2013 compared to $0.32 per share in the prior year quarter an increase of 63%.
Our AFFO continues to increase as the ramp from previous lease signings burn off.
As of today we are 94% leased and 94% commenced with only a handful of recently commenced leases still in their free rent base period.
In addition for several of our existing mature leases cash base rents exceed our GAAP base rents driving the increase in AFFO.
Quarterly revenues were $96.3 million our highest ever.
This is an increase of $10.9 million or 13% quarter-over-quarter.
As to our capital markets update there are several highlights I would like to discuss.
The first one which Hossein previously mentioned was our 5.875% $600 million senior notes due 2021.
The proceeds of these -- of this issuance we used to fund the tender offer of our 8.5% $550 million senior notes due 2017.
As of today the old bond's tender and call process is complete and paid off in full.
Q3 has a onetime charge of $0.38 per share and the Q4 estimate is $0.11 per share.
The annual interest savings with $50 million of additional notes outstanding is $11.5 million or approximately $0.14 per share as we start 2014.
In September we entered into a $195 million unsecured term loan at LIBOR plus 1.75% which matures in early 2019 with no extension.
This loan included a delayed draw feature.
We drew only $120 million in September which was used to pay off $90 million on our unsecured line of credit.
We exercised the accordion feature of this loan earlier this month and increased the term loan to $55 million now totaling $250 million.
To date in the fourth quarter we have drawn an additional $34 million.
The remaining $96 million balance must be drawn by January 10 2014.
We continue to improve our balance sheet.
These 2 recent transactions have extended our debt maturities to 7.1 years and decreased our blended cost of debt to 4.8% with no debt maturities until 2018.
Our cash balance after today's call redemption is approximately $70 million.
We have $96 million still to be drawn on the unsecured term loan.
Our line of credit balance is 0.
Therefore we have the full $400 million available.
We have the capacity to fully fund the current developments as well as the Chicago development which we plan to start in the second quarter of 2014.
Both current projects are on time and on budget.
As a reminder the shell in Santa Clara is built which is already funded and paid for at $60 million cost.
We are completing the turnkey buildout of half of the completed shell with some funds spent in Phase 2b to ensure the redundancy of Phase 2a.
Phase 2a cost estimate is approximately $12 million per megawatt or $108 million.
Our pro forma estimate for Phase 2a is an unlevered return of between 9% and 9.5% on our invested capital based on the 50% pre-leased deal at hand.
In Ashburn Virginia we are building the complete shell in the parking lot for the entire 41.6 megawatts of ACC7 and the turnkey buildout of Phase 1 representing 11.9 megawatts or 29% of the available power.
The overall cost estimate is $7.5 million per megawatt excluding capitalized interest.
We expect to spend about $170 million to complete the entire shell and the initial 11.9 megawatts phase.
We have spent $68 million of this through September 30.
Our pro forma estimate is an unlevered return of between 12% and 14% on this overall project.
A quick note on our stock repurchase plan.
In September our Board approved a new $80 million stock repurchase plan which will now expire at the end of 2014.
There have been no stock repurchases in the third quarter.
Our strategy is simply to have this available as part of our overall capital allocation plan.
I now would like to discuss our fourth quarter and 2013 full year guidance and provide our 2014 low-end guidance.
Our fourth quarter 2013 FFO guidance range is $0.43 to $0.45 per share and our normalized FFO guidance range is $0.54 to $0.56 per share.
The $0.11 difference is a result from the early termination charge from the call of the remaining 2017 senior notes.
The full year 2013 FFO guidance range is $1.43 to $1.45 per share and our normalized FFO guidance range is $1.93 to $1.95 per share.
The $0.50 per share difference represents $0.48 per share from the early termination of the 2017 senior notes and $0.02 per share from the Q1 secured loan payoff.
Introducing 2014 guidance the full year low-end FFO guidance is $2.28 per share.
The assumptions are disclosed in today's earnings release on Page 4.
We expect revenues will exceed $400 million.
EBITDA margins should remain constant at around 63% and our free cash flow after our common dividend and before development spend should reach $100 million in 2014.
On October 15 we paid a $0.25 per share dividend to our shareholders.
This represents annualized normalized FFO and AFFO payout ratios of 49% and 48% respectively.
As new leases commence and cash flow increases our dividend will increase.
It is still our company policy to distribute 100% of taxable income.
The thought I would like to leave you with is our business is strong our balance sheet is secure and we are confident in our growth prospects.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein.
Thanks Mark.
Let me offer a few final comments and then we'll go to questions.
We had a terrific quarter and we're proud of our accomplishments.
We've always said that leasing is lumpy and our leasing results for the quarter proved that.
We're not going to rest on this success.
We're going to work even harder to fill up our remaining space and pre-lease our new development.
The fundamentals of our business remain strong.
The growth of the Internet is not slowing down.
Only about 10% of data center requirements are outsourced.
This leaves us a lot of business for our tenants to capture in which turn increases the demand for outsourced data center space.
My last comment today is to the DFT team.
Thank you all for your hard work in leasing in operating in developing in financing and growing our business.
Your commitment means a lot to me.
With that let's go to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Hossein going back to your comments on the President search.
Maybe -- I know you mentioned that you're looking for someone that would be a good strategic and a business development sort of skill set.
What else are you looking for in a candidate? Are you looking internally Board members? Could you give us any more color as to kind of what you're looking at? Sure.
We are -- we have a list of candidates that we've given to our search firm.
It could be a real estate person it could be an IT person it could be a business development person.
We would like to add someone that will broaden our management team.
And with that our search is primarily looking outside to broaden what we already have.
I look forward to sharing my knowledge of data centers.
We've been on the forefront of many things in data centers like looking at power per kilowatt looking at construction cost per megawatt latest is looking at rack density per vertical foot.
But I also look forward to learning from this person some of the things that we could be better at like acquisitions.
So we're excited to be able to have a new partner internally to work.
Maybe your last point is an interesting one and given sort of the 5-month time frame from here on out it's not a potential opportunity.
But could M&amp;A be the way you land someone or is that unlikely at this point? I mean everything is possible but we can't really comment on that.
Our next question is from Gabe Hilmoe with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Mark on the development at CH2 maybe I missed this.
I think you talked about ACC7 in Santa Clara but can you add any more color in terms of expected spend pre-leasing needed for the buildout anticipated yields et cetera? Well it's roughly a 25-megawatt building.
Chicago tends to cost somewhere between Virginia and California.
So probably $10 million a megawatt's the number.
The buildout -- we'll build the complete shell probably at $150 a square foot on the shell and then the buildout of whatever we decide internally it will be a smaller piece.
You could call it anywhere from 25% to 40% of the buildout inside the building on a turnkey basis.
So that's kind of the parameters around that.
Returns we would expect to be in that 12% -- 12% to 13% 12% to 14% range similar to CH1.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess Hossein kind of a bigger high-level question but just looking at kind of framing price in your markets.
I guess I'm trying to get a sense on when maybe you're going up against the competitor for deal and how is DFT competing in those deals? In which market? Research Division</strong> Santa Clara.
In Santa Clara the majority of the tenants we have in that building are super wholesale tenants.
We are competing very well right now.
We're 100% full and we have leased 50% of the space we're delivering.
So obviously we've had enormous amount of success.
We've done better than we've expected in competing for deals.
We think our product is certainly superior and we believe that our operations -- and that doesn't necessarily mean me it means the guys on the ground running the building -- are superior to anything out there.
And we've had experiences where tenants have gone to someone outside of the DFT when we initially competed for a deal and now they're back because of the advantages that we provide.
Research Division</strong> Okay I guess has your ability to maintain price remained pretty flat over say the last 6 months? Yes.
I think that's correct.
And in fact we've had a little bit of an uptick in Virginia on price.
Our next question is from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to see if I could get a sense of guidance a little bit.
You gave this low-end number which is a healthy bar to be setting.
But could you maybe frame up the opportunity in terms of the high end what that might look like if you were to actually assume some level of leasing? Well Jordan obviously that's what we're going to work on over the next 90 days.
The issue is we don't have a lot of inventory to lease so we're bringing on 2 buildings in the second quarter of '14.
So we're -- if they opened 100% full we only have a half year run rate on those 2 buildings.
And then a little bit of lease-up in VA3 will help.
And then New Jersey probably similar to this year to '14 we may not put any guidance in there for '14 for New Jersey as we did this year.
So the high end is still a work in progress.
We wanted to get out there and put a low end because we're pretty comfortable with it.
And as in the past several years we had kind of goal post of $0.10 to $0.15.
That's probably close.
But we'll fine tune that over the next 90 days.
Research Division</strong> What are the prospects -- so it sounded Hossein like in your commentary that New Jersey was picking up I think you were making reference to at least on the quarter.
But is that -- you see something more behind that? And maybe could you also sort of frame up the traffic and potential to sort of backfill the rest of VA3? Sure.
Let's start with New Jersey.
Our experience has generally been that we delivered that building for financial tenants and we delivered it in the midst of the financial crisis.
So now we've got more than 50% of the building leased.
The second half of the building and always the second phase of each building leases faster than the initial phase of each building.
And we're in that time frame where we're starting to see not only financial tenants be touring the building but also we're seeing some traction from organically growing within our existing 9.1 megawatts.
So I'm cautiously optimistic that the second half of the building will lease much faster than the first.
And with reference to VA3 I think we barely have 3 megawatts of space left.
And we have no space delivering in Virginia until probably close to end of the second quarter of next year.
So with only approximately 3 megawatts that's not much inventory to work with.
I mean in reality I wish we had more space in Virginia because in the last year while we were optimizing the delivery of ACC7 we've certainly lost tenants due to having no space available.
And Jordan we're on commenced leases.
I mean we commenced roughly 32 megawatts of capacity in 2012.
With the lease that just commenced October 1 that put us at 94% commenced we're at 30 -- we have 33 megawatts of leases commencing so far in '13.
It's going to be hard to replicate that in '14 until we get this inventory out there and available.
This is being our best quarter ever in terms of leases commenced.
Best year.
Best year ever in terms of leases commenced.
Our next question is from Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes I'm interested in what you're seeing in terms of power densities requested by customers whether that's changed over time and in particular whether there's any notable differences by markets.
And I guess where I'm leading here is just how you deal with demand that maybe had a lower power density than what you've engineered the building for and does that limit your revenue potential at particular sites and maybe influence some of your design decisions going forward? Well I think we need to look at New Jersey separately from the other 3 markets.
In the other 3 markets we are seeing power density typically going higher and higher and higher.
And we're now with the advent of the superthin server used our buildings will remain the highest quality buildings and they really are the most dense in the market as far as power density.
So the longevity and usefulness of our buildings are the best in the market.
In terms of New Jersey yes we're having -- we almost have too good a product in terms of power densities.
But what we've managed to do engineering-wise is rent parts of the building out at lower densities and then shift the available load to the Phase 2 of the building.
That's what we did with this last tenant and it worked out extremely successfully.
We can move both the cooling load and the electric load of the building anything that remains in Phase 1 into Phase 2 assuming they don't use all of it in Phase 1.
So all in all we're in a great position Jon.
Our next question is from Bill Crow with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Mark could you just close the gap of -- you gave us the low end of guidance for next year and you talked about paying out 100% of taxable income.
Where does that put the dividend next year at a 100% taxable income based on the low end of guidance? It's a pretty strong increase at this point Bill.
We've got drafts of what we think that is.
I'm not going to stick a number out there yet.
But at a 50% payout ratio assuming that's the right track you can do the math to get there.
But it's -- it'll be a sizable increase as we think about dividend for next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Hossein one more time.
I think we've discussed this before but I think you said 9.5% unlevered return on the second Santa Clara project.
Is that correct? That's about right but also it's important to note what our return will be on the new invested money because we've already have $60 million invested in the shell and the underground features and parts of the substation in Phase 2.
So the new money invested in Phase 2 will give us approximately 14% unlevered money.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I guess I understand that but you got to put it against the total expenditure.
Sure.
Absolutely.
If you look at the total 9% to 9.5% is about right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So as you think about future capital allocation would you tend to aggregate your investments more in the Midwest and Virginia where you can still reach unlevered returns of 11% or 12% or 13%? I mean why allocate -- beyond this next phase why go into California if it's going to be 9.5%? Well I think returns will go up and down based on market vacancy and based on demand.
Those things will shift.
I think it's important for our customers that we're active across the country.
As you've known in the past we have many tenants that rent with us in 3 of -- 3 of the 4 markets.
And those customers like signing one deal and with one handshake and having a platform to be able to expand across the country.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then finally is -- did I understand correctly that at least over the last few quarters rental rates that you're seeing out there whether they're in the market your portfolio or other is it fair to say that rents have at least stabilized here that we're not seeing continued pressure downward? We're certainly seeing that yes.
Our next question comes from Young Ku with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe this question's for Hossein.
We've been hearing that there is a major tenant of yours that subleases their space or at least looking to sublease their space.
Just wondering if you can comment on the subleased kind of trend and how that has trended recently and whether you see that as a potential long-term risk.
I'm glad you asked that question because we're seeing some of that noise in the market and I wanted to differentiate markets.
In California it's well-publicized that Facebook has a significant amount of market space on the sublease market in Northern California.
And -- but for us we have leased approximately 15 megawatts of space since that time to other tenants.
Subleased space it is difficult to lease out because it really in many instances needs a tri-party agreement between the landlord the old tenant and the new tenant.
So it's a little bit more difficult.
It's certainly more difficult than renting out primary space in mission-critical space like data centers.
Now let's go to Virginia.
In Virginia we haven't seen any of that tenant looking for -- putting any space into the market.
In fact that tenant is having a difficult time keeping up with their own demand on the East Coast.
I think that answers your question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay now that's helpful but just following up on that.
So the yields in Santa Clara at 9% to 9.5% is lower than kind of Virginia and Chicago at 12% to 14%.
And it looks like there's a sublease kind of flag in Santa Clara then even if you got that 50% pre-leased deal at SC1 Phase 2 I mean does it make sense to spend your incremental capital there? I think that is exactly the question that was asked.
I believe yes it does.
We did get that pre-leased and 50%.
So the way we're analyze -- the way we're dealing with our risk is to build in smaller increments.
We're building 9.1 megawatts where half of it is pre-leased.
What our customers really want is the -- what our customers really want is a platform to build across the U.S.
in each market where they can take space in multiple markets.
Also bear in mind that the new money invested in Santa Clara is going to earn a 14% return because we've already have $60 million invested in that market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure okay.
That's helpful.
And did I hear you correctly that rents in Virginia actually went up? I mean it's tough to say when we're talking about a such a small subset.
But we have seen that rents have stabilized and they're ticking up yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So they are picking up.
What do you think is driving that? Is that kind of demand accelerating or is there kind of lack of supply in that market? I think maybe a bit of both.
Our next question comes from Rob Stevenson from Macquarie Capital.
This is Van Kett [ph] in for Rob.
Your renewals this quarter had lease terms between 3 and 5 years and the new leases were around 6 years.
Just wondering is 3 to 6 years where the tenants are driving lease length these days or is there something peculiar about this quarter? Well I think -- I'm glad you asked that question Rob in that the particular tenants you're talking about is a 5-year lease.
But they have an early termination in year 3 with a penalty.
So because of the size of that penalty we counted it as a 3-year lease.
So I don't think there's anything new with that.
Lease terms are a function of price and credit and how much we want that new tenant.
All in all we do believe that the large multi-tenant buildings can accommodate lower lease terms.
And if our tenants really want lowered lease terms to be able to outsource their requirements that's where we should be going.
And that gets the tenant to be able to approve these leases with a lower level of approvals than going all the way to the CEO or the Board.
If it's a 3- or 5-year lease it's a lower commitment for that company than a 10- to 15-year lease.
And that with -- so they can take advantage of outsourcing and we're an outsourcing company.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I just wanted to get this right Mark.
Was in terms of thinking about where we are today to bridging to your bottom end of the guidance for next year I'm looking -- I think you only have like 1.7 megawatts of stuff that was sold and not commenced.
And maybe you indicated in the call that something had commenced in the beginning of October.
So I'm just trying to get a sense as to what is not commenced at this point and then maybe to help us understand what's going on maybe give us a sense as to what's moving from a noncash to kind of the cash pay on the commencement side? And then my second question has to just do with kind of sort of connectivity.
I noticed that you guys placed somebody on the Open-IX Board and just wondering what your perspective on Open-IX is? As well as maybe interconnecting your facilities either within region or across regions as some of your competitors are doing.
Sure Jonathan.
Well Q4 is what it's going to be a $0.55 multiply that by 4 and that's $2.20.
So to get to $2.20 is not really big stretch.
The -- we are 94% leased and commenced as of October 1.
So we have the 4.5 -- 4.55 megawatts commencing the day we open the doors in Santa Clara which we hope to be either April 1 May 1 worst case June 1.
So that will commence immediately and run the rest of the year.
The escalations around all the leases that we have are in place.
The capitalized interest for Q4 should on a run-rate basis match the overall capitalization for 2014.
It's heavily weighted in Qs 1 and 2 because of these 2 developments but those are the main drivers to get to where we need to be and then obviously the interest savings overall.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was wondering about that.
If you're going to be launching construction of Chicago in the middle of the year why would capital interest -- capitalized interest be taking such a big step down? Because all we're capitalizing on is the 15 million of land and then the Bell curve spend doesn't really start until July.
So we're spending money on designing the building but the big -- the heavy lifting doesn't take place until the building starts to go vertical and the equipment is ordered which honestly will be in the second half late in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I understand.
And maybe Hossein or Mark if you can offer some color commentary on the Open-IX and interconnection stuff that'd be great.
We certainly believe that it's the right thing for the U.S.
market to endorse some form of Open-IX.
It makes a lot of sense.
Many of the customers are demanding it.
If you look at the Board of Open-IX it's really who's who of the Internet is on there.
And we believe some form that makes absolute sense and we are working to try and get some of the European exchanges and some of our data centers.
And be on hold for announcements that we'll make in that regard.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And the interconnecting of facilities either across your campuses say in Nova or across the U.S.
as some of the competitors have done have you guys considered that at all? Well that's exactly the announcement I was referring to.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Jon Petersen with MLV &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick modeling question.
In terms of straight-line rents they went positive in the quarter which really helps to boost your AFFO.
I'm just trying to get a idea is there anything one time in there that we need to consider? And then going forward with all the leases you signed.
Is there any free rent up front or anything like that to consider as we look at straight-line rent over the next 4 quarters or so? Yes there's still a little bit of burn-off on some additional leases but AFFO has turned.
It should stay that way as we think about the next couple of quarters.
But it's really a function of the commenced.
The one commenced lease at October will affect a little bit of Q4 and then there's some burn off of some additional ones that will happen as we think about the first quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in the new leases you signed is there any free rent in any of them the 11.7 megawatts? Well 4.5 of that was pre-leased starting in Q2 of '14 but there's none on that.
So the super wholesale tends to not have any but a couple of them -- several of them have a couple of months free but that's about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a question for Hossein.
In terms of your some of the larger like Internet super wholesale tenants obviously a headwind is a lot of these guys building their own data centers.
It's been talked about time and time again.
Facebook is out there subleasing space but from what the market says Microsoft is one of the people that recently signed a lease with you guys.
I know you won't talk about specific tenants but just wanted to get your thoughts on some of these Internet super wholesale tenants why when they are building some of their own data centers why they're also leasing from you guys? And maybe kind of highlight some of the benefits they get from leasing your locations versus maybe some of the locations that they're in secondary and tertiary markets.
Just trying to get a sense of how these guys think from your conversations with them.
Sure.
First of all from any company also has an internal charge when they build their own of the cost of their own money.
That's not -- that charge typically is much higher than what they are earning in the cash sitting in the bank.
So that's how they internally look at it.
From one of my conversations with one of our super wholesale tenants I'm told what we're charging them in a super wholesale rate it comes to about the same as what they internally charge themselves.
But we're giving them more flexibility in many instances.
Sometimes in terms of a 5-year lease sometimes it's in terms of a just-in-time inventory.
That we build -- whatever -- 50 megawatts across our platform where they may not be building 50 megawatts.
Suddenly if they have a spike of demand and they have an acquisition and they have a product that takes off they can come to us and get space immediately as just in time.
There are other times that they need to be in a geographical location that they're not in and that geographical location because of some latency issues is where they want to be.
And they don't necessarily have space in that location.
So all in all I think that outsourcing is here to stay with the large tenants as well as the small tenants.
Research Division</strong> Okay how important do you think the location the geographical location is? Because you look at where a lot of them are building in Prineville Oregon North Carolina it's not the main data center hub markets that you guys are located in.
How important is that? It depends on application right? Some applications need to be right there call it trading.
Some applications need to be within a city's geographical location.
Some applications can be up and down the East Coast.
So it really depends what application they're running which will determine where how sensitive that location is.
Our next question comes from Dave Rodgers with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Yes Hossein if you could address this if you did already I apologize but I didn't hear it.
Can you talk about kind of what the acquisition market looks like today given kind of what happened to the data center REIT stocks this year? I mean does that had any kind of change in how the private market has viewed data centers just kind of given the relative comp? And I guess I'd also say is there any relative change given DLR's recent announcement of the credit tenant trade that they had put out there? I actually have very little to say about that because we really have not done anything so far in that market.
I think I mean the only thing I can say is that the -- any acquisition that would happen under private market the public guys look at what their valuations are and look at their multiples.
And of course they'll want to have some incremental accretion to their own stock when they make those acquisitions.
And obviously we all know the multiples are not what they were 5 years ago.
So -- but having said that we've seen very little activity in the last 6 months to speak of.
So with so little activity I can't really say -- I don't really have much data on it.
Dave this is Mark.
We've seen a few packages come across our desk on a sale-leaseback basis but they tend to be single-tenanted buildings.
So it's really just quality of the building obviously but the price as well.
Does it make sense and how long of the lease can we get? But as you can appreciate single-tenanted buildings have a different set of risk factors than our multi-tenanted.
We like multi-tenanted and that's been a strategy since the IPO.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could on the CEO search I mean the announcement in itself a little bit unusual in that you're essentially finding a replacement as opposed to a successor kind of in my view.
And I'm wondering in terms of has the Board put out any packages in term of strategic alternatives? Have they had any discussions around strategic alternatives have you thought about that? And maybe asked it a different way why is the successor route a better opportunity right now than a strategic alternative for DFT? Well we believe that the company is a great time for growth right now.
It's a great time right now for our company.
As a core founder as a cofounder of the company I think of DFT as really one of my own children.
In the last 6 years we have built a campus environment in 4 geographical locations.
In that campus we survived the financial crisis.
We issued no dilutive equity during the financial crisis.
We have issued bonds recently have a very strong balance sheet that we're issuing bonds below 6%.
Our version 3.0 data centers are just coming out which we've worked the last 5 years in getting.
So it's with all these things done the next step of having a great company is to have a good succession plan in place.
So that's where I can really comment on that the timing of the succession is right because we've done everything else correctly so far.
With reference to strategic alternatives we feel it's a great time for growing our business and we're focused on that.
Our next question comes from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to circle back to the succession plan a little bit if I could.
Hossein I think you gave a little bit of color in terms of the type of person.
You said it sounds like it's definitely an external search in terms of trying to broaden or deepen the bench.
So could you confirm that #1? And then separately does this person have real estate experience or is it TMT experience? What sort of requisite what does this person bring to bear that diversifies the skill set? What would -- that you've told the search firm to look for? We're having a very broad search and that's one of the reasons we think it will take some time to find the right person.
We have -- it's mostly regarded externally because we want to deepen our capabilities.
And as far as -- we're looking for the right candidate.
We want to make sure that that candidate blends in well with the culture and with the rest of the management here.
And we are -- we have given some names ourselves to the search firm and those names some of those guys are real estate guys.
Some of those guys are business development guys.
Some of those guys are more in the IT or data center world.
So we want to make sure it's the right person.
Of course real estate and data center experience will help.
But until -- it's a little bit Jordan like a looking for a wife.
So when you have the right person we'll know it.
But beforehand it's difficult to put the...
Research Division</strong> To spell out all the characters.
Exactly.
To develop all the categories.
Research Division</strong> That's fair I guess.
So the other question I had and I may have missed this.
I apologize.
On the upcoming lease roll the remaining 4 leases in '14 are those expected to see a similar trend to the ones that were renewed in the quarter the plus 1% GAAP down 11.5% cash? Yes.
Jordan.
There's 3 tenants it's 4 leases.
One of them expires on November 30.
The other 3 on 12/31.
So it's really no effect on '14.
It's really about '15 and we would -- they're non-super wholesale.
So there's some smaller tenants.
We would expect it to be similar.
Research Division</strong> Similar okay.
And it sounds like you have a pretty good bead on them right now because you're saying you expect to renew them all.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> So I assume you've had discussions and it's going well.
It's early in the game but we -- they're using the space they're pulling power they are refreshing their rooms.
So we feel good about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then lastly Hossein could you maybe speak to the land valuation in Chicago? I know you took down this piece of land to develop it.
And on a per acre basis it kind of seems like a significant number and yet this is not necessarily big enough acreage to build the blueprint the prototype development so you've got to sort of alter the design a little bit.
Can you maybe just...
Well I mean the location for a data center is nearly as strategic.
Being directly across the street you could throw a tennis ball from this side of the street to the other and hit it.
That's where we really want to be.
Did we maybe a little bit pay a premium to get it from ProLogis? Yes probably.
Do I feel that it was worth the premium because it was strategic? Yes absolutely.
The campus environment of the data center where we have consistent organic growth from one campus one data center to the other is where the leasing becomes easier and where we create.
And that's where we need the easy money and the low hanging fruit.
To pay for that low hanging fruit when the cost of land is less than 3% of the overall cost of the data center the strategic nature of it it's definitely worthwhile to pay a little bit more and get the location you need.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's -- is that a raw land price? I'm sorry.
Could you repeat that.
Research Division</strong> Is that the price for raw land? Yes exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay there's no I mean there is no improvements right? No no.
It's raw land.
There was a building on there.
It's being taken down.
So it's raw land.
Our next question is from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Hey Hossein a couple of questions.
One when you talk about your super wholesale deals especially with large Internet tenants or your current tenant base you mentioned that depending on the application that would drive their location et cetera.
So when they come to you do they typically sort of talk to you about a specific application? Try to get into a specific asset or do they internally bundle and say "Yes we need to put a search engine in this facility and we need to put a picture hosting engine in this facility and we need to do a mapping application in this facility." And they come to you and say "We as user XYZ need this much space." Well sometimes we know the application sometimes we don't.
That depends on the tenants and depends on who we're talking to.
And some of these guys change from one tenant to the other.
So sometimes we have that visibility and sometimes we don't.
Typically after the fact that the tenant occupy after a year or 2 of our people working together we have a better concept of what application is in there.
Got it.
And then as we sort of look at your portfolio you're certainly geographically concentrated in your core markets.
And we've spoken at length in previous conversations about new potential markets is that something that's sort of possible in the near term or is it as open as it's ever been? Not in the near term.
I mean at the moment right now we're in a very exciting time to capture low hanging fruit.
This is the moment that Lammot and I set out to be in 6 years ago when we went public where we have a mature campuses across 4 geographic locations.
We can expand right now in 3 of the 4 locations and we'll have organic growth from our other tenants.
So this is really the time to reap the benefits of the low hanging fruit.
So at the moment if we have a solid pre-lease we may go to a new market.
Otherwise we're focused on picking up those low hanging fruits.
And so looking forward we should kind of be modeling 1 to 2 new developments in existing markets a year is that sort of appropriate? Not new markets the existing markets.
Yes That's correct.
In the near term.
There appears to be no further questions at this time so I'd like to turn the conference back over to Hossein Fateh for closing comments.
Thank you all for joining us today.
Thank you very much.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Technology Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Gary.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's fourth quarter 2013 results conference call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; Jeff Foster the company's Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Davis the company's Executive Vice President of Operations.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
[Operator Instructions] I now will turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good afternoon everyone.
I'm happy that you could join us today as we discuss DFT's fourth quarter and full year results and provide guidance for 2014.
As you noticed in our earnings release we delivered strong fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial results.
We increased our dividend by 40% from $0.25 per share to $0.35 per share and provided our 2014 guidance which forecasts normalized FFO per share growth of 19% over 2013.
I'd like to start today with a leasing update.
We are 94% leased.
And while that is great news it leaves us with a good problem of having very limited available space.
There are only 2 operating properties out of 10 that have available space: New Jersey with approximately 9 megawatts and VA3 in Western Virginia with approximately 4 megawatts available.
Last quarter we announced that we have signed 2 leases for space in these properties totaling 4.9 megawatts.
We continue to respond to several RFPs provided to us and are in discussions with potential customers regarding available space within these 2 buildings.
Although we have very limited space for new leases we continue to renew existing leases prior to expiration.
During the fourth quarter we renewed 2 leases scheduled to expire in 2014 totaling 1.17 megawatts of critical load.
The renewal rates averaged at 6% decrease on a cash basis when compared to rates at the end of the original lease.
The renewal rates increased 9% on a GAAP basis based on our recent leases and renewal rates.
I believe that pricing in our markets has stabilized.
Let's talk about our new -- let's talk about our data center in New Jersey and this houses the bulk of our inventory.
It is 52% leased on a critical load basis and 64% leased on a computer room square footage.
And 8 customers within the facility account for 9 megawatts of critical load.
The majority of them are enterprise customers.
The power requirements for these customers are much smaller than we have seen from our Internet customers in other markets.
As an example the average customer size in our ACC4 ACC5 and ACC6 buildings is 3.5 megawatts compared to 1.1 megawatts in New Jersey.
We have talked about the benefits of organic growth within our campus environments.
A number of our enterprise customers which tend to be stickier have now been within our New Jersey facility for 2 to 3 years.
These increases the likelihood that some of them may require additional space at the future.
There continues to be new demand in New Jersey and we're optimistic that we will get our fair share.
We are confident that NJ1 will be a great long-term asset for us.
To be conservative however we maintain our forecast of no new leases in New Jersey for 2014.
Each new lease we sign for space in New Jersey will provide upside to our guidance.
The only other remaining space available within our portfolio is VA3.
The facility increased from 51% leased in February 2000 -- in February to 71% leased as of today.
We are actively touring this facility and are optimistic in our ability to fully lease out.
Now let's discuss our 3 new projects: ACC7 Phase 1 in Northern Virginia Phase 2a of Santa Clara and our site in Elk Grove Village on which we will develop our CH2 facility.
This summer we plan to deliver ACC7 with 11.89 megawatts of critical load.
This building incorporates our version 3.0 design and will eventually total 41.6 megawatts when fully dealt out.
We are very proud of the new engineering and design elements incorporated within this new facility.
It will be the most efficient data center we have ever built.
We expect that the cost for ACC7 to be 7.4 million per megawatt excluding capitalized interest.
This is a savings of about 400 000 per megawatt compared to ACC5's costs a savings of approximately 5%.
ACC7 is complete enough to begin customer tours which should facilitate increased leasing interest.
So where will the demand from ACC7 come from? From both new and existing customers.
Within our Ashburn campus we have 20 customers 60% of whom have taken additional space with us within the campus.
We have had great success in our Ashburn -- in Ashburn and are optimistic that some of our current Ashburn campus customers will take space with us in our new facility.
ACC7 is also eligible for the sales tax exemption that all of our customers enjoy in the Ashburn campus.
Phase 2a of Santa Clara is scheduled to be delivered at the end of May.
We are currently building out 50% or 9.1 megawatts of the planned 18.2 of critical load for Phase 2.
Our top 3 customers which leases space in the 3 of our 4 markets is expanding in this facility and has pre-leased 4.55 megawatts of critical load.
We have been conducting tours for our existing and new customers for the remaining space.
Both ACC7 Phase 1 and Phase 2a of Santa Clara are currently on time and on budget.
This takes us to Chicago.
We acquired a 15-acre parcel of land in August of 2013 directly across the street from our CH1 facility to build CH2.
Building a campus environment will support the future growth of our customers.
We are currently working on design and permitting for this facility.
We have designed CH2 to total 25.6 megawatts of available critical load while incorporating the same 3.0 design element.
With this new design we expect CH2's PUE to be around 1.15 compared to CH1's PUE of 1.30.
Chicago has been a very robust market and we need capacity in order to capture current and future customer demands.
We expect to begin development of the first phase of CH2 in the second quarter of this year.
Now let's discuss Open-IX.
In November we executed an agreement with the London Internet Exchange or LINX at our ACC5 facility.
We also signed up the Amsterdam Internet Exchange at our New Jersey facility.
These exchanges will provide a local peering fabric in each of these geographical areas.
Both exchanges are currently building out their infrastructures and are preparing to go live this quarter.
This will take some time -- or it will take some time for Open-IX's peering fabric to obtain critical mass.
Why is Open-IX beneficial to DFT? Well we believe this is a good opportunity to step into a cabinet-based offer where customers can lease one or more cabinet connect to fiber provider of their choice and to one of the Open-IX switches and subscribe to our Level 1 IT support should they need assistance.
These services will include bracket stack server reboots shipping and handling of equipment network cross connects and cable.
This will be DFT's version of retail.
The initial launch will be at ACC5 and NJ1 and will total less than 0.5% of our current portfolio approximately 0.8 megawatts across these 2 markets.
This initial launch will allow us time to build out the infrastructure needed to support a robust retail product while taking a prudent approach into this offer.
As you know we have customers in several of our facilities offering retail so we know our facilities are suitable for this level of service.
We expect to have our cabinet-based offering on the market in the second quarter of this year.
Let me take a final moment to discuss the progress on our succession planning.
We are searching for a candidate who will deepen our executive branch add new skills and help me develop and implement new strategies to further grow the company.
I like the range of candidates we're seeing and look forward to making an announcement once our final candidate has been selected.
With that I will turn over the call to Scott Davis our Executive Vice President of Operations who will discuss the new design at ACC7.
Thank you Hossein.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'm pleased to join this call today to discuss some of the exciting innovations in our latest data center design.
We have refined our product to achieve improved levels of efficiency while simultaneously reducing our cost to construct on a per megawatt basis and further aligning ourselves with our clients' corporate social responsibilities.
Most importantly we accomplished this without sacrificing the reliability and resiliency that our customers have come to expect and rely on from our facilities.
We are currently at various stages of design and construction on 3 properties: Phase 1 of ACC7 in Ashburn Virginia; Phase 2a of SC1 in Santa Clara California; and CH2 in Elk Grove Village Illinois.
ACC7 and CH2 are new greenfield projects while Phase 2 of SC1 is the planned expansion of our existing data center.
I would like to start with ACC7 which is our new prototype data center design that we have been developing for years.
The goal of this new design was to fully analyze the latest trends in the data center industry and to create an enhanced product that aligns with these trends that exhibits a high degree of flexibility and appeals to a broad spectrum of both existing and prospect customers.
We expect all new greenfield designs including CH2 to be based on the ACC7 design premise.
Let me highlight a few of the key features of the design.
Please bear with me as I get a little technical here but I think you'll see why we are so excited about DFT's new product.
Our data centers have always been in the top echelon when it comes to industry-leading efficiency.
However the ACC7 design achieves new greater level of efficiency.
The calculated annualized PUE for ACC7 is less than 1.14 at 75% load levels and sub 1.13 for 100% load level compared to a 1.30 PUE at our existing ACC5 facility.
This is achieved in large part from our new cooling plant design a waterside economization plant with chiller assist that maximizes our opportunities for free cooling.
The key words here being chiller assist because chilled water is produced primarily from the waterside economizers from which we receive year-round contribution.
We expect to supplement chilled water production from the chillers only during peak demand times which may be less than 25% of the year.
Secondly advances in electrical distribution technology further afford us opportunities to innovate.
Recent advances in medium-voltage switch gear design and circuit breaker technology have significantly improved the reliability of these products to the point they may now be considered permission critical applications.
For the first time we are able to move from a low-voltage distribution to a medium-voltage distribution within the facility.
This allows us to significantly reduce the size of our electrical feeders by a factor greater than 7x.
It also spawned the creation of a new highly efficient PDU or power distribution unit that is 99.6% efficient which is nearly 2 full percentage points more efficient than conventional PDU.
These PDUs will be located outside of the computer room proper further increasing the available computing cabinet space within the rooms.
The PDUs and downstream distribution are configured to provide a complete 2-end architecture.
The secondary voltage of the PDUs is at 240 volts versus the conventional 120 volts and will further provide cost savings to our customers in their branch circuit design.
This PDU architecture enables our customers to fully utilize the power within their computer rooms as power is not stranded or what we in the industry call air pockets.
This increases the overall efficiency of power utilization for our customers which is what we always strive to achieve.
We have further enhanced the flexibility of our product by making the power densities within the computer rooms variable.
We can deliver densities in the range of 120 watts to 230 watts per square foot.
We will offer one room size but we'll have the ability to divide the room into smaller offerings depending on our customers' load requirements.
We will also be able to provide segregated equipment galleries for customers with increased security requirements.
We have eliminated the race and have provided a highly efficient and customizable LED lighting solutions that is activated and controlled by occupancy sensors.
Lastly ACC7 is a green design.
We've discussed the energy efficiency.
In addition the facility will be LEED certified.
And as a result of our medium-voltage solution we are using less copper steel and PVC than ever before.
Also we have recently converted our entire Ashburn campus over to a newly available reclaimed water service which will be the water source to ACC7's cooling plant and irrigation needs.
Next I would like to discuss our SC1 Phase 2 design.
The original design for Phase 2 was based on the Phase 1 design.
However in light of our efforts in designing ACC7 we wanted to enhance the Phase 2 design and incorporate many of the progressive elements from the ACC7 concept.
These elements include adopting the waterside economization with chiller-assist cooling plants emulating the new 2-end PDU design with 240-volt secondary distribution improved overall efficiency with calculated annualized PUE for Phase 2 at less than 1.16 at 75% load levels and sub-1.15 for 100% load level compared to a 1.30 PUE in Phase 1.
We also have variable power densities within the computer room's optional equipment galleries and LED lighting and control.
In summary we're extremely excited about the direction of our new data center designs.
We've brought forward the isolated parallel UPS design to policy which has proven to be extraordinary in delivering reliable critical power while we made advances in several other areas that will provide us with an innovative green product that is cutting edge in the data center industry.
With that I would like to turn it over to Jeff Foster our CFO who will take you through our financial performance.
Thank you Scott and good afternoon everyone.
I want to cover 4 main topics today: our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results a capital markets update 2014 guidance and our dividend.
Normalized FFO for the fourth quarter of 2013 was $0.57 per share compared to $0.38 per share for the year-ago quarter an increase of 50%.
The $0.19 per share increase is primarily due to increased operating income and lower interest expense.
Normalized FFO for Q4 2013 excludes the loss from debt extinguishment of $0.11 per share from calling our remaining 8.5% 2017 senior notes.
Normalized FFO for the year was $1.96 per share compared to $1.48 per share in 2012.
The increase of $0.48 per share or 32% is primarily due to higher operating income.
Normalized FFO for 2013 excludes a $0.50 per share loss from the debt extinguishment on our 2017 senior notes and the early payoff of our ACC5 term loan.
Our AFFO increased -- continues to increase as GAAP revenue and cash revenue are now in step as the ramp from our 2012 and 2013 leases has pretty much burned off.
AFFO for the quarter was $0.56 per share compared to $0.37 per share for the same quarter of 2012 an increase of 51%.
For the year AFFO was $1.87 per share compared to $1.29 per share for 2012 an increase of 45%.
Quarterly revenues were $99.4 million our highest ever.
This is an increase of $13.5 million or 16% quarter-over-quarter.
For the full year 2013 revenues were $375.1 million.
This is an increase of $42.7 million or 13% over the prior year.
Cash from operations in 2013 was $193.8 million an increase of $61 million or 46% in 2012.
After common preferred dividends we generated $93.7 million of cash in 2013 that is being used to fund our current developments.
This is an increase of approximately $31 million over 2012.
We had $5.8 million of capital expenditures on our operating properties in 2013 and we will build 80% of this to our customers under the capital expenditure recovery clause at our leases.
Most of the amounts not being billed are for the upgrades of the VA3 lobby which was completed in the second quarter of 2013.
Our estimate for 2014 is $4 million for the expenditures of which 95% will be billed back to customers.
As you note in the earnings release we reclassified the management fee that we collect from customers from recoveries from tenants to base rent on our income statements.
The impetus for this change is a change in our go-to-market strategy on our wholesale leases.
Our existing leases contain a management fee cost stating that customer will pay DFT 5% of base rent plus operating expenses as the management fee.
This fee is locked in for the life of the lease.
We will be eliminating the management fee in our new leases.
Because of this I feel the new classification will more accurately reflect the true nature of our management fee which is additional rent for the company with no offsetting expenses.
Also it will allow patch results to be comparable with the results produced from our new market strategy.
In a fully leased building base rent will now represent our NOI since all operating expenses are recovered under our triple-net model.
Because of this change we are now exposing annualized base rent for leases signed in 2013 inclusive of the management fee and are often including management fee in annualized base rent over the next 12 months in the operating property table footnotes.
This reclassification did not change total revenues operating income net income earnings per share FFO normalized FFO or AFFO.
As to the capital markets update we drew the remaining $96 million earlier this month on our $250 million senior unsecured term loan.
This money along with the cash on our balance sheet and free cash flow will fully fund both of our current developments ACC7 Phase 1 and Santa Clara Phase 2a.
The Phase 2 developments will be funded by a combination by cash generated by operations and our untapped $400 million line of credit.
Current projections call for about $50 million to be drawn on the line at the end of 2014.
After our bond refinancing our weighted average cost of debt is 4.7% at December 31 2013 which is 260 basis points lower than a year ago.
Our first debt maturity is not until 2018.
We continue to improve our balance sheet and have ample capacity to grow and fund our business.
I now would like to discuss our 2014 guidance.
Our first quarter 2014 normalized FFO guidance range is $0.56 to $0.58 per share.
The midpoint of the range is equal to the $0.57 per share we earned in the fourth quarter of 2013 as we had no leases scheduled to commence in the first quarter of 2014.
The full year 2014 normalized FFO guidance range is $2.28 to $2.38 per share.
As in the past the low end of the range assumes no additional leasing in 2014.
The assumptions are disclosed in today's earnings release on Page 15.
Here are some highlights.
Revenues are forecasted to exceed $400 million.
For the first time ever cash-based rent is forecasted to exceed GAAP base rent by an estimated $4 million to $9 million.
EBITDA margins should remain constant at around 63% to 64%.
And our cash flow after our common dividend and before development spend is forecasted to be about $90 million again in 2014 even after taking into account the 40% increase in our common dividend.
G&amp;A expenses forecasted to increase $1 million to $3 million versus 2013.
This increase is primarily due to increased compensation expense resulting from our anticipated hiring of a new president and the new infrastructure costs that support our exploration into the cabinet-based offering.
After the 2 lease renewals that Hossein mentioned we only have 2 leases scheduled to expire in 2014.
Both are in the fourth quarter.
The impact of the mark-to-market on these renewals is negligible to our 2014 and 2015 FFO.
In 2015 we have one notable expiration on September 30 at ACC2 for 10.4 megawatts.
This lease is currently at market when compared to our current wholesale rate and is about 20% above our current super wholesale rates.
Last but not least let's discuss the dividend.
As previously mentioned we increased our quarterly dividend from $0.25 per share to $0.35 per share an increase of 40%.
This represents an estimated normalized FFO payout ratio of 50% at the midpoint of our guidance.
For comparison the normalized FFO payout ratio in 2013 was 48% and the AFFO payout ratio was 51%.
Our dividend increase is consistent with our company policy to distribute 100% of taxable income.
The thought I would like to leave you with is our business is strong our balance sheet is secure and we are confident in our growth prospects.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein who will provide some final comments.
Thank you Jeff.
Let me offer a few final thoughts and then we will go to questions.
2013 was a record year for lease commencements totaling over 33 megawatts.
We are on time and on budget to deliver our 2 new developments: ACC7 Phase 1 and Phase 2a of Santa Clara.
We are finalizing the design and obtaining permitting for CH2 and we are working hard to fill up our remaining existing inventory and to pre-release our new developments.
The fundamentals of our business remain strong.
The growth of the Internet is not slowing down.
This leaves us with a lot of business for our customers to capture which in turn increases the demand for outsourced data center space.
In closing I'd like to thank the DFT team.
I'm proud of your hard work.
Your commitment means a lot to me.
With that let's go to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So Hossein maybe we can go back to your previous comments on the RFPs that you have out there.
Are those for the sort of the builds you have in progress or future phases? And if we look at those tenants are they existing to the portfolio or sort of new potential banners that are out there? The RFPs we're working on for the majority of the part right now are new customers.
Our existing customers typically don't go to an RFP.
They just come directly to us and pretty much all of them are for the 4 markets we're in.
None of them are for any new market.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then as we think about the retail offering I think it's sort of new that you sort of given a timing and sort of jumping in there.
Have you discussed that retail offering with your current tenants that have a retail product? Maybe you could share the reactions start there.
Yes.
Most of our tenants do not have necessarily a retail product.
They may have 1 or 2 cabinets for interconnection in a co-location facility.
Well our tenants typically are much larger for that.
So the majority of those tenants will be new tenants.
I also want to emphasize this retail product as I mentioned in my prepared remarks it's only less than 0.5% of our entire portfolio.
Yes.
Was your question related to discussing this with our existing retail resellers? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Especially if we look at an asset like New Jersey where there's probably good room for you to put in the product but your current sort of tenancy there does offer that product.
Oh yes.
I mean they know we're offering it Manny and we're not really concerned frankly.
There are customers even within say a server central that could potentially compete with a server central.
So it happens all the time.
Research Division</strong> And then Jeff maybe one for you.
On the management fee reclassifications can you just give that in dollars for 4Q as to what was transferred between the 2 buckets? And then did I hear you correctly you said it's not going to be part of new leases and maybe you can elaborate on why? Okay.
In the fourth quarter our management fee was about $4 million.
And for the full year 2013 it was about $15 million.
For why we're not going to include it in new releases it's part of our new go-to-market strategy.
Today when we -- maybe Hossein will want to explain on this...
Yes.
Today for example if one of our leases Manny is at say 105 the tenants really looks at that lease really more like 113 anyway.
They model that management fee in their assumptions as rent.
So we've come to the conclusion better late than never because they're modeling at base rent and we have no operating expenses against it.
We might as well call it base rent.
That's how they're looking at.
Research Division</strong> So there will be 0 net economic impact it's just sort of classification on the proposal? Yes.
That's correct.
The next question comes from Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I'm interested to hear a little bit more about the retail offering just specifically what it is you're building out.
Who's leading the charge in terms of this initiative how many people? And I mean I think you gave a little bit of color about what the offering will be Level 1 service and server reboots rack and stack shipping and handling of equipment that were cross connects.
But I'm just kind of curious if you could sort of flesh out the offering as you're envisioning it and then the timing of the launch.
Sure.
That's a very good question.
The impetus for really the offering is the going live dates for the Amsterdam Exchange and the London Internet Exchange.
Those exchanges putting a switch in our data center will make available for customers to connect to that switch and basically for the initial term of the content to have that connectivity for free.
For our wholesale customers and super wholesale we don't really need a peering fabric and that's why we haven't done it so far.
The fact that this switch is now available and is going live in two of our data centers it makes sense for us or why not offer a retail product that in the long term we're hoping -- we want to be really ready for a retail product in 2017 '18 and '19 that when and if some of those lease has come up in ACC4 we'll be able to re-lease some of that space getting a decent same-store rent growth rather than a decrease in same-store rent growth if some of those leases go to super wholesale.
So that's where we're getting prepared to be ready for that period.
As far as how many people are going to be in our retail offering Jeff has already baked that into our G&amp;A for what we need and we also will be outsourcing some of those people.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Well from a numbers perspective I'm interested to hear what the numbers are that are baked in for the president and the retail offering in the G&amp;A number for certain.
But I'm kind of curious strategically how many people who's leading -- how big of an operation is this? Well it's going to be a very small operation less than 0.8 megawatts.
So in Virginia we're talking less than 40 racks.
Research Division</strong> Are you hiring 2 people though to do this or? We're hiring a couple of people to do this and we're outsourcing these [indiscernible] for the moment.
At the moment we don't envision it to be a large part of our business at all.
Through that combination of our people and the outsourced people once it's fully up and running and we have some customers online we'd anticipate sort of between 5 to 10 people.
But that includes the outsourced labor.
Yes.
But again it's less than 0.5% of our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> What's the -- right but the idea is for it to be significantly greater than 0.5% as a percent of revenue.
Well we're going to see how -- we're going to respond to market demand.
We are not necessarily going to go full scale.
We will grow the demand as the market allows us.
The only space we're making available for it right now is 0.5% of our portfolio.
Assuming the market responds well to our offering well we can make more space available for us.
But at the moment the 0.5% does not represent a changing strategy.
Research Division</strong> And what was the cost Jeff you said you were -- that you baked in for retail? For the president and for the retail offering there's an increase in G&amp;A of an extra $1 million to $3 million.
The reason for the range happens to be on the timing of when all these people come on board.
So when the president come on board in the model and also when do we ramp up our hiring for the retail.
The thought process is in ACC4 we've got leases coming up 13.85 megawatts in 2017 '18 and '19 is to really have a decent product in those years to be able to re-lease part or some of that space in a rack-based offering.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the search Hossein do you still expect to be able to announce something in the first quarter or toward the end of the first quarter? We have -- we really like -- I really like the candidates we have.
The search process is going according to plan.
The interview process is on schedule.
I'm more now focused on getting the right candidates the right partner for me rather than necessarily hitting the timing of getting someone on board at the end of first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And has there been a thought process to try and kill 2 birds with 1 stone here a little bit in terms of the retail offering and the president? Maybe there are some several small companies out there that are involved in the retail business already sometimes a capable person at the helm.
Has that been -- have those people been on the radar in terms of a potential search? I don't want to go into kind of details of our search to that level but I can say that eventually we will need a head of retail and a president.
So is -- could there be a head of retail that could later be promoted? Maybe.
But I believe that having some retail experience for the president could be helpful absolutely.
It's a skill set that long term we'd like to have.
But I do believe long term we'll need both candidates a head of retail and a president.
The next question comes from Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Kind of a macro question on the Virginia market given the land purchase and certainly by far was one.
And I don't know of the timing of when they plan to come online but kind of what are your thoughts on how that affected dynamics in Northern Virginia given the entry of a new player? And then in Santa Clara I was just interested I wanted to confirm the low end of your guidance does incorporate the pre-leased demand that would come online this year.
Is that correct? Yes Jon and this is Jeff.
I'll handle that last one there.
The 2 28 has baked into it the revenue from that pre-leased.
LLC Research Division</strong> So is there a possibility of upside if the installations occur sooner than expected or is all of that contractually somewhat rigid at this point in terms of how that would flow to future revenues? I would say given where we are on our construction schedule we had it baked in pretty accurately right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes.
Let me take the first part of the question.
We pretty much dominate the Northern Virginia market and the wholesale and super wholesale categories of data centers.
We have -- in all the buildings we have in Ashburn and Northern Virginia we don't believe anybody else can really compete as effectively with us.
We typically set price and 2 [ph] levels for our returns.
And typically that may -- the market will follow where we are.
So I'm really not afraid in this market of competition.
I think our product and our operating staff speaks for itself.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then on New Jersey you made a comment about 2 to 3 years is if the customer life cycle sometimes customers look to take down more space.
Was that more of a kind of a general comment employing to the possibility of further leasing in New Jersey or are there specific indications that you're hearing from your customers if they may in fact looks to do that? There are no indications.
I mean I wouldn't tell you if there were indications from the customers.
However that goes to -- that comment is based on 2 things.
One typically when a customer first signs a lease the second question they ask is what do we do in 2 or 3 years when we're full? So we're now in that time frame.
The second part of it is that we see IT loads and we can watch loads of our tenants.
And we see where some of our tenants in New Jersey are now using a good part of their electric loads.
So hence they may need more space.
Some of them.
Does that answer your questions regarding our [indiscernible]? The next question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Hossein so 3 questions here if I may.
First in terms of the change of accounting I think it makes a lot of sense actually what you're saying about moving the management fee into the base rent especially as we think about some of the comparative pricing in the market versus your peers that maybe don't have triple-net and the management fee.
I just wanted to get a little more context in terms of some of the commentary you gave about pricing stabilization and the mark-to-market some to 2 renewals.
I don't understand if you're comparing that to the prior base rents or you're comparing it to the prior base rents where you've rolled in now the management fee.
Absolutely I was comparing it to prior base rents including management fee.
Our tenants typically look at the management fee as base rent.
So if for example we're talking about super wholesale pricing that base rent was in the low 80s.
Now we're saying it's in the mid to high 80s.
If you're comparing it to wholesale rents that were previously 105 to 110 you would need to add $8 to that to have a base rent and management fee built in.
Those rents have stabilized.
So just to point of clarification there Jonathan on a renewal the customer already has an existing lease with us with the structure laid out.
So we wouldn't be changing the structure on a renewal or on an amendment to an existing lease just on brand-new leases.
We treat management fee as base rent so do our customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the management fee is just on top of the base rent or is it -- you got a management fee also on the reimbursements for the OpEx? Well I think that's where it becomes more clear for the customers.
The management fee has always been 5% of base rent and operating expenses.
So right now in some of our leases we have had pushed back that okay if operating expense goes up you're making a fee on that.
And now that's not going to exist that's 5% of that fee we're not going to make it.
We're just going to build in all the management fee upfront into the rent.
And it's also Jonathan the other thing it does well for us is we are very proud that our operating expenses in our properties are the lowest in the industry because of the size of the assets which is not rocket science.
The bigger they are the average per kilowatt per month operating expenses is lower.
Taking the management fee which is base rent putting it in the base rent category will outline more clearly how low on operating expenses we have had over the term of the properties.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
You talked a little bit about Open-IX and the opportunity there and you previously announced the M6 and the LINX relationships.
Just to understand the economics of those relationships are you then providing the space for those guys to put their switch and equipment in for free and that's why you were highlighting what you've taken out of your portfolio to allocate to this project? Or are they separately paying you as customers and then you're building around that? What they are -- these -- both of those are going to take a couple of racks.
So whatever we charge them or even if it's 0 it's so nominal it's irrelevant.
What I was emphasizing is the availability of the switch which is a couple of racks in our data centers.
And just to be clear they do have some free rent for the initial period but it's only on 2 racks enables us to be able to have a cabinet-based offering that is ancillary next to those switches.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then finally Jeff just to get a little bit of clarification.
You talked about sort of seeing FFO and AFFO converge.
And I wasn't sure if you were sort of telling us that we should think about those as sort of similar numbers as we look into '14? Or are you just talking about growth sort of being in lockstep between the 2 numbers? I'm talking in that context about 2013.
But when you think about 2014 while we don't give specific AFFO guidance the one key number in AFFO is always been the straight line.
And for the first time ever the cash base rent will exceed the GAAP base rent which means the straight line will add to FFO.
And therefore AFFO should be higher.
The next question comes from Dave Rodgers with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just want to go back to the 3 projects you talked about in the development pipeline and I guess they'd be focusing on ACC7 and SC1 Phase 2a.
I guess first can you remind me of the timing of the move-ins at 2a in terms of when they start paying rent and when they move and are committed to the space? Then I guess second tying out to your comments earlier Hossein about no real pressure anymore on rents.
Are the negotiations that you're hearing in these discussions for these spaces in these developments consistent with your most recent rents? I mean on the bigger spaces are you continuing to see any pressure? Any color on that would be helpful.
I'll let Jeff answer the first question.
I believe it's May Jeff? Yes.
We have modeled it late May early June for the move-in date at Santa Clara when the lease will commence.
And then the second part of your question the -- we are in our Ashburn campus except for this 0.5 megawatt of available space 100% full and the 0.5 megawatt is what we're dedicating to this cabinet-based offering so we're essentially 100% full.
Where we are is we don't see any real downward pressure on rents it's on the deals that we're negotiating.
We are certainly getting the returns we expected or higher and those are the RFPs and really the negotiations we're at on ACC7.
Research Division</strong> And for Santa Clara? And for Santa Clara yes.
Similar to our -- the rents that we're seeing is similar to the rents in Phase 1 and the recent deals we've done on super wholesale deals.
The next question comes from Young Ku of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Maybe this is for Hossein.
I just want to go back to your 2015 expiration for roughly 10 megawatts that's going to renew or is going to expire.
Have you gotten any indication one way or another on what you thought the tenant would do do you think they would likely renew? You're talking about the ACC2 correct? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
2015 with...
Yes.
It's in September of 2000 -- that's a good question September of 2015.
Now we -- our discussions have been that we've asked for the space back and they -- although they're not really using the space we've asked for it back early because we did have a customer for it.
They refused to give us the space back.
We have not had a formal notice whether they are renewing or not but I can diverge that I do expect to -- although we have not had any formal notice I can tell you they're not using a big part of their load and so that means they may give it back but we've not had a formal notice.
LLC Research Division</strong> So if you were to get that space back how long do you think it would take it to back-fill that space? I think it depends but we have said the space works very well for super wholesale tenants.
And I've also indicated in my prepared remarks that super wholesale rents are about 20% less then this tenant is in there at the end of the term of that lease.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just going back to your retail offering a little bit.
What kind of rent rate differences are there between retail base and larger wholesale type of customers? We're still working through.
I don't want to quote those numbers yet on the call.
We're still working through our offering.
But what has been indicated -- when we see some of our competitors we see that the net-net rent we can achieve from the retail offering even with the greater G&amp;A and the lower margins than we have typically our margins are in the 60 percentile.
The retail margins are in the 40 percentile.
Even with the lower margins what we see is that some of the guys in the retail world are getting higher net rent than wholesale space which would mean if we can achieve that as well for some of the space coming in in ACC4 we'll be able to achieve higher same-store sales for the same amount of space.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's a little bit higher.
Just maybe you can just educate us a little bit.
I'm not too familiar with the retail space.
The super wholesale rents has to come down pretty meaningfully over the past couple years.
How have the retailers held up? It's not retail.
I think what you mean is the -- our wholesale rents right? LLC Research Division</strong> The wholesale rents have come down but in terms of the market cabinet-based space offerings you have an indication on how much rent have come down over the past couple years? I do believe they're going to continue to come down with us and some of the REIT going into the space.
There's more and more competition to the incumbents in that space.
But we still see a healthy margin for us because our cost to build the data centers is -- per megawatt is lower than the incumbents in that space.
Our next question comes from Jon Petersen with MLV &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> In terms of -- I realize the retail platform is extremely small at this point and the plan is for it to be very small but as part of the G&amp;A are you going to hire sales people in most of the co-location companies have pretty robust sales forces or can you rely on the broker community to bring potential? No.
We would have to have a hire a couple of sales rep.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the dividend payout I mean it's still low as relative to whether you look at FFO or AFFO.
I mean how should we expect that to trend over time? I know taxable income tends to be a little bit of a black box for REIT.
But do you expect if you look forward 3 5 years for that percentage to increase over time just based on how the accounting and taxes work? Yes.
This is Jeff.
On the taxable income it does increase as our cash revenues increase.
So as we've seen in the last year our cash revenues have increased quite a bit with AFFO going up and we would expect that trend to continue in the future.
The other point I'd like to add here that I'm particularly proud of is that our dividend payout is as Jeff pointed out in his prepared remarks only 60% of our FFO and Jeff indicated that AFFO is slightly higher.
So it would be a lower percentage than 60% on our AFFO.
And even after our dividend payout we have $90 million of cash.
So essentially we can build more than 9 megawatts just with our free cash flow.
Research Division</strong> So I guess if I'm hearing you right you expect it to grow with your AFFO but the percentage the 60% you expect to remain relatively constant over the next few years? Well the percentage has gone up.
So as taxable income increases the percentages will go up also.
It's just a function of how the 2 interact.
So we don't really get a lot of specific guidance on our dividend other than the state it's currently at $0.35 and we expect it will go up as our taxable income increases.
The next question comes from David Shamis with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering what you guys are hearing about Facebook and their subleasing progress in Santa Clara if that's having any impact on your leasing negotiations for Phase 2? We really haven't.
We've heard they've had some marginal success in subleasing.
In my opinion subleasing data center space is extremely difficult especially if it's a shorter term lease.
You almost always need a tri-party agreement between landlord old tenants and new tenants.
This is mission-critical space.
So I'm not sure how you would do it without a tri-party agreement or without the landlord's complete buy-in.
Almost always the new tenant needs something from the landlord.
So we don't have any Facebook space on the West Coast and we're currently -- for whatever the amount that we've built we're 100% full.
On the -- I just also want to point out that its a good opportunity.
There were some analyst reports that Facebook is subleasing space in Northern Virginia and I want to confirm on this call that that is not true.
We've had discussions with them and they have said it is not true we're not subleasing our space.
And from what we see they're actually utilizing pretty much all their space.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just also wondering what you're hearing from your tenants the potential tenants with respect to cloud and kind of how they're thinking about their data center needs overall be it wholesale or co-location or using something like AWS or Google cloud.
Cloud is a complete additive to our business.
I see DFT as being a provider for the cloud.
It's -- AWS is a very successful cloud operator but they are one part of the cloud.
Almost all of our customers are using cloud-virtualized platforms.
So whether it is Salesforce.com whether it's Microsoft all of these guys are providing different forms of cloud and in a virtualized platform.
Now what really makes sense what I see often if it's a game operator when a game is successful they use private cloud either with us or one of our competitors and have their own data centers.
And then when they have spikes in demand they may use a Rackspace or an Amazon for that spike in demand of a new game or on when their games outgrow their own functionality.
But we see the cloud only helping the wholesale data center providers.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just one more for Jeff.
I guess a little bit more detail on the guidance and I know you said the low end of guidance doesn't include any additional leasing and guidance overall doesn't include additional leasing at NJ1.
Just wondering kind of what gets you to the high end from the low end? Yes.
David to get to the high end we need to do some leasing in our existing space and in the 2 developments that we'll be putting online this year.
Our range this year is pretty tight at $0.10 and that reflects that our 2 main chunks of space that we're going to put online this year 21 megawatts of which we've pre-leased about 4.5 of that don't come on until the middle of the year.
So the opportunity to gain additional leasing there is only for the second half of the year.
For the first half of the year as Hossein mentioned we had 13 megawatts available in our current data centers.
So the $0.10 reflects that we could lease up some of that 13 megawatts and give some new leases at our development that will be coming online.
The next question comes from Michael Knott with Green Street Advisors.
John Mischani [ph] here.
I have a quick question on your share repurchase plan that you guys put in place late last year.
So last year you were repurchasing stock at about $23 a share.
Since then you've done a lot of leasing you've increased the value of your portfolio.
So at this point how do you and the board look at share repurchases as the capital allocation option? Well we still have that as an option.
The board renewed our share repurchase plan.
We have about $120 million available this year.
We look at the stock price and we look at our other potential uses of cash and this year we're looking at around $250 million of development spend.
So we have to balance those 2 together based on where our stock price is at and what our internal cash needs are.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Emmanuel Korchman with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Jeff maybe I missed this but in October you guys had given 4Q guidance of $0.54 to $0.56 and it came in at $0.57.
In that sort of short 2 months what change do you guys were able to get another $0.02 or $0.025 of FFO out of the quarter? Well when we gave that guidance we thought we might trend towards high end of that guidance the $0.56.
The extra $0.01 was for some compensation that we did have to pay to my predecessor when he departed.
The next question comes from Jon Petersen with MLV &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the London Internet Exchange in Northern Virginia and Amsterdam and New Jersey and how it's kind of positive for retail.
I imagine that you're going to have a lot of your wholesale tenants that would want to connect to those exchanges as well too.
Do you have any sense of kind of what percentage of your current wholesale tenants would take advantage of the opportunity of having those guys there? I think they will and I believe they'll connect.
But most of the -- I just think I believe that they'll connect as an ancillary or as a redundancy.
Don't forget we only have 38 customers.
And most of them are so large that they buy a big pipe or dark fiber and do their connectivity themselves.
What has happened is because of the dominance in one or more of the peering fabric what the customers really want is redundancy in peering.
So I believe our larger customers will connect to the switch certainly for redundancy.
But I don't think there's going to be a major move away from the incumbent.
That's going to be over a long term.
As we have no further questions this does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Hossein Fateh for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to updating you in the next quarter.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Technology First Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Chris Warnke Investor Relations Manager for the company.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's first quarter 2014 results conference call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Foster the company's Chief Financial Officer.
Certain matters discussed today during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good afternoon everyone.
I'm happy that you could join us today as we discuss DFT's first quarter results.
As you have noticed in our earnings release we again delivered strong first quarter results which exceeded the top end of our first quarter FFO guidance range.
This led us to increase the midpoint of our 2014 by $0.03 per share which Jeff will discuss later in the call.
I would like to begin by discussing our recent leasing activity and leasing environment in our markets.
As you are aware our only availability is at VA3 and New Jersey.
In the first quarter we executed a lease with a new communications customer for 0.49 megawatts in our VA3 sector.
Subsequent to the first quarter we executed a new lease with one of our super wholesale customers for 2.6 megawatts also within our VA3 sector.
This customer also extended their 1.3-megawatt lease in this facility by an additional 9 months.
While this extension did not change the cash base rent it did increase GAAP base rent by 1.2%.
The GAAP rents on these leases are approximately 30% higher than VA3 GAAP rents at the time of the initial public offering over 6 years ago.
Both these customers are very sophisticated technology companies.
They have the ability to build their own data centers but choose to rely on DFT to provide their outsourcing requirements.
Our facilities are maintained to the highest degree and built to provide the efficiencies and cost savings our customers demand.
The 2 leases I mentioned bring VA3 to 95% leased on a square footage basis up from 71% at the end of the year.
Our guidance has VA3 fully leased by the end of the year a goal we're close to accomplishing.
Our entire portfolio is now 95% leased on critical load and 97% leased based on square footage a great achievement.
During the quarter we commenced 2 leases totaling 0.92 megawatts of space.
One was the 0.49 megawatts in VA3 the other was the re-lease of space at CH1.
The previous customer vacated on December 31 and the new customer took possession the next day.
This required no downtime or capital improvement expense.
As we discussed during the quarter Yahoo! is trying to sublease their Northern Virginia space with us.
They have 10.4 megawatts at ACC2 scheduled to expire in September 2015 and a total of 13.6 megawatts at ACC4 scheduled to expire at 3 increments in 2017 '18 and '19.
As a reminder these leases have no outs and Yahoo! is fully responsible for full payments until their lease expiration.
I believe subleasing this space may be difficult.
Here is why: first customers typically want 10 to -- 5 to 10 years excuse me of term.
Yahoo! tells us they're not vacating ACC2 until the end of the year leaving only 9 months of term.
The remaining term at ACC4 is between 3 and 5 years.
Customers require 3 to 6 months to build out and design their computer room purchase equipment and connect to fiber.
The average investment may be $17 million to $18 million a megawatt.
Customers who spend this much capital require a longer lease term and visibility for extension rights to justify that expense.
Second many customers are running mission-critical applications applications that are the heart of their business.
This generally results in them wanting a direct relationship with the landlords.
This is not like leasing office space or retail space.
In order for data center subleases to really work a tri-party agreement is almost always required.
All parties would have to agree to the terms and conditions within our data center leases and extension periods.
It is not impossible but difficult to achieve.
Third as you may recall in May 2012 we helped pass legislation in Virginia providing a sales tax exemption on computer room servers and computer room equipment through 2020.
Our Ashburn customers are eligible to receive this sales tax exemption.
However there is specific language within the legislation that there must be a direct relationship between the landlord and customer in order to receive the benefits.
Any subleasee that requires the Yahoo! space would not be eligible to receive this substantial cost saving.
For example if a customer spends $17 million a megawatt and turning their servers every 3.5 years the sales tax incentive is worth approximately $20 a kilowatt per month.
If you are asking how Yahoo! sublease activity would impact us we do not believe it will adversely affect us.
Since 2009 we have leased 76 megawatts of space in Northern Virginia and renewed 43 megawatts.
Northern Virginia continues to be one of the best if not the very best market for outsourcing data center space.
We have captured a considerable amount of this demand and do not see it slowing down.
In fact we review their announcement positively.
Prior to Yahoo!'s announcement we were not able to efficiently market ACC2.
Now we have an additional 9 months to re-lease the space.
The density of ACC2 is around 200 watts per square foot ideal for a super wholesale company.
It's unfortunate that we do not have any availability in Ashburn -- excuse me it's unfortunate we did not have any availability in Ashburn last year as we lost 2 potential large deals.
We're confident there are customers who desire this dense space.
This takes me to New Jersey which has 8.8 of our 9.5 megawatts of current available inventory.
It continues to be 52% leased on a critical-load basis and 64% leased based on computer room square footage.
Our sales team is tracking new demand and we're responding to RFPs.
We remain optimistic this market -- we remain optimistic in this market and long term NJ1 will be a great asset for us.
To reiterate our guidance provides no new leases signed in New Jersey for 2014.
Each new lease executed will provide upside to our guidance.
Now let's move on to Open-IX.
In February the London Internet Exchange or LINX finished their buildout and went on -- and went live at our ACC5 facility.
Last month we received our Open-IX certification.
And for ACC5 have applied for certification for New Jersey.
We expect to receive that within the next few weeks.
The Amsterdam Internet Exchange has almost completed their buildout at New Jersey and is ready to go live next week.
So what are the benefits of having Open-IX in our data center? First it will drastically reduce the cost for exchanging traffic to all the participants at the exchange.
This is a direct cost savings for our customers.
Second it reduces latency.
Based on the proven and successful model in Europe we believe it will provide the same benefits to our customers once the peering network has been achieved.
Scale won't be achieved overnight.
However being part of the first 2 East Coast Open-IX providers gives us a first-mover advantage.
Open-IX makes our building more valuable and provides us a good opportunity to introduce our cabinet-based retail product.
As discussed on the call we're tracking to deliver our retail product this quarter at ACC5 and New Jersey.
It will total approximately 0.8 megawatts less than 0.5% of our current inventory.
Before I turn over the call to Jeff let's talk about our succession plan.
There are 3 closely linked topics we should cover: timing the candidate the transition.
First let's talk about timing.
As you may recall we had a bond offering in September of last year.
Any issuance of securities should include an announcement of what the company is thinking.
Since we have started planning for succession it was important to share that information with you even if it was a bit ahead of schedule.
Next our plan was to take a methodical approach casting a wide net for the perfect candidate.
We're looking at people from real estate technology and across the various business segments related to data centers.
We are in discussions with candidates with diverse and useful backgrounds.
As far as the transition some of you might legitimately ask if my ongoing involvement would narrow the appeal of the job for the top candidate.
Let me reiterate that the timing of the transition is entirely candidate-dependent.
If we select a candidate with a strong data center skill set development background and sales that transition could happen more quickly.
If the candidate needed a longer ramp up I'm here to aid that education process.
At the end of the day I'm planning to serve as Executive Chairman using my industry experience and customer contacts to support business development and shareholder value.
With that I'll turn it over to Jeff.
Thank you Hossein and good afternoon everyone.
I want to cover 4 main topics today: our first quarter results the development in capital markets update our 2014 guidance and our dividend.
Our first quarter 2014 normalized FFO was $0.59 per share compared to $0.42 per share for the year-ago quarter an increase of 40%.
This exceeded the upper end of our guidance range by $0.01 per share.
The $0.17 per share increase over the prior year quarter is primarily due to increased operating income and lower interest expense.
Our AFFO continues to increase and for the first time ever surpassed our FFO.
This is a direct result of having cash-based rent exceed GAAP-based rent.
AFFO for the quarter was $0.62 per share compared to $0.38 per share for the same quarter of 2013 an increase of 63%.
Quarterly revenues were $102.1 million our highest ever.
This is an increase of $14.3 million or 16% quarter-over-quarter.
Due to rather cold weather in the first quarter in several of our markets 3 of our properties experienced substantial increases in their utility rates compared to their Q4 rates as their electricity is purchased on the spot market.
This totaled $2.5 million of additional expense and explains the increase in recoveries from tenants and property operating cost on our income statement.
As you know we sub-meter all of our customers' computing and cooling power and pass their usage on with no utility markup.
Having all of our leases triple-net ensures that we are fully reimbursed for this expense in our 100% leased data centers unlike some other data center leases or operating agreements in the market.
I would now like to provide you with an update on our development projects.
They are ACC7 Phase 1 Phase 2 of Santa Clara and CH2.
We are on track and on budget to deliver 11.89 megawatts at ACC7 this summer.
In January we were able to begin tours with existing and prospective customers.
We received excellent feedback on the new design and the building has toured extremely well.
We firmly believe that with the engineering incorporated within this facility the embedded organic growth on our campus and the current demand in Northern Virginia that ACC7 will lease up in a similar time frame as our existing Ashburn building.
Phase 2a of Santa Clara is on budget and on schedule to be delivered next month.
50% or 4.55 megawatts is pre-leased.
We have considerable interest for the remaining 4.55 megawatts.
In order to capture our share of demand in this market we plan to commence development of Phase 2b once Phase 2a is delivered.
We anticipate delivering 9.1 megawatts in Phase 2b late in the first quarter of 2015.
This will bring the total building load to 36.4 megawatts.
You may have noted that we increased the midpoint of ACC7 Phase 1 development costs by $12.5 million and SC1 Phase 2 by $7 million in our development table.
We have shifted to include capitalized interest in these estimates which accounts for $6.5 million of the increase at ACC7 and $4 million of the increase at SC1.
The remaining $6 million increase at ACC7 and $3 million increase at SC1 Phase 2 is due to performing more work on future phases now than originally forecasted.
Let me be clear this is just an acceleration of the work stream.
The total cost per megawatt for the entire building has not changed.
This takes us to Chicago.
We have finalized the building design and are acquiring our permits.
The plan calls for 25.6 megawatts of available critical load and incorporates the same design elements and efficiencies as ACC7.
Like our other developments we will construct the entire shell of the building lay all the underground conduits and build out the infrastructure in phases.
Given the robust demand in this market we plan to commence development of 7.1 megawatts in Phase 1 this quarter and anticipate delivering this in the middle of 2015.
We need this capacity to capture our share of customer demand in this market.
The projected cash spend for CH2 Phase 1 will be in the range of $170 million to $190 million.
And we anticipate total costs excluding capitalized interest of $10.3 million to $11.3 million per megawatt for the entire development.
Also the projected cash cost to complete Phase 2b of Santa Clara is $45 million to $50 million.
Both of these developments will be funded by a combination of cash generated by operations and our untapped $400 million line of credit.
Current projections call for approximately $100 million to be drawn on our line at the end of 2014.
We have ample capacity to grow and fund our business using this untapped $400 million line.
I now would like to discuss our second quarter and revised full year 2014 guidance.
Our second quarter 2014 normalized FFO guidance range is $0.59 to $0.60 per share.
We increased the full year 2014 normalized FFO guidance range from $2.28 to $2.38 per share to $2.32 to $2.40 per share.
This is an increase in the midpoint of $0.03 per share which is being driven by increased capitalized interest due to starting development of SC1 Phase 2b and leasing year-to-date exceeding our expectation.
As in the past the low end of the range assumes no additional leasing in 2014.
The remaining assumptions are disclosed in today's earnings release on Page 15.
A quick comment on lease expiration.
Over the next 3 years our lease expirations only total 10% of our annualized base rent with Yahoo! at ACC2 representing roughly 5% of our annualized base rent.
As Hossein mentioned we are actively marketing this space which is ideal for a super wholesale customer.
We anticipate the cash decline in rent will be about 20% on this property.
Last but not least let's discuss the dividend.
It was paid on April 15.
As previously mentioned we increased our quarterly dividend from $0.25 per share to $0.35 per share an increase of 40%.
This represents an estimated normalized FFO payout ratio of 59% at the midpoint of our guidance.
As leases are executed and commenced our dividend should increase accordingly.
We have strong financial metrics of which most are investment-grade.
Our balance sheet is secure and we will utilize that strength to further grow the company.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein who will provide some final comments.
Thank you Jeff.
Let me offer a few final thoughts and then we'll go to questions.
Our portfolio is 97% leased on a square footage basis.
We are on track and on budget to deliver ACC7 Phase 1 Santa Clara Phase 2a this quarter.
We will commence development of CH2 Phase 1 and Santa Clara Phase 2b this summer.
These new projects will allow us to deliver 21 megawatts in 2014 and 16.2 megawatts in 2015 enabling us to capture the robust demand in both markets.
The fundamentals of our business remain strong as the exponential growth of the Internet is not slowing down.
I believe that if the growth of the Internet was a 12-chapter book we're only on Chapter 3.
This leaves us with a lot of business for our customers to capture in which turn increases demand for outsourced data center space.
Lastly I'd like to thank the DFT team for all your dedication and hard work.
It gives me great honor to work alongside you.
With that let's go to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Jordan Sadler from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you a question about the development start here in Santa Clara.
I guess I'm surmising that from your comments and some of the text in the release that you're very close to backfilling Phase 2a of Santa Clara 1? And just I'd be interested in your comment there because I am a little bit surprised that Phase 2b was launched or will be launched at the same time or ahead of Chicago given that there is no incremental leasing in the books here as far as this release is concerned.
We start projects based on how we feel and how we're tracking the demand in the market.
It's perceptive of you to think that we are -- have a handful of deals that we're working on and we feel terrific about the Santa Clara market.
But beyond that I can't really say anything more.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I guess maybe you could provide some context.
I know your existing portfolio is extremely well-leased if we look at the stabilized portfolio.
But availability is substantially higher and going to be driven even substantially higher than that to be as high as call it 15-plus percent of your overall portfolio including the ongoing development when you include Phase 2b ACC7 the Yahoo! space expiring next year that you're trying to backfill plus New Jersey and Chicago.
So there's quite a bit of availability.
And a lot of the bigger requirements can be national as we now know.
So just curious why you would feel the need to have that level of overall availability.
I think it just goes to show we believe we'll have tremendous growth.
We believe that in the next year we're going to have great leasing and it will help us grow.
We're going to have -- ACC7 is a fantastic product.
It's our new best new data center.
And with that we've incorporated some of those elements into Santa Clara.
We obviously feel very confident about our future leasing and our future growth to put that much products out.
And we can do all of that and issue no new equity.
We have no requirements to issue equity and grow.
Research Division</strong> Well that's helpful color.
Can you maybe give us a sense of what you're seeing in terms of market rents? Any incremental pressure either to the upside given the demand that you're talking about? I don't think there is huge pressure on the upside but I also don't see any pressure on the downside.
I feel very good and in fact I want to address something you came out and talked about the rent at VA3 in your write-up this morning.
Let's address that since you're on the line.
VA3 you perceptively calculated that rents were at $75 per kilowatt.
But I do want to address that because that building is unique in 2 things that differentiate it from Ashburn in that the first one is it's a 13-megawatt building which the operating expenses are $35 per kilowatt per month where the Ashburn buildings are 36.4 megawatts and the operating expenses are now around $20 per kilowatt.
So there's a $15 difference in operating expenses between the 2 buildings.
Secondly as I said in my prepared remarks the sales tax incentive at $17 million a megawatt is worth approximately $20 a kilowatt per month.
VA3 does not qualify for that sales tax incentive.
So apples-to-apples the cost of -- total tenant cost of occupancy is approximately $35 a kilowatt between Ashburn and VA3.
So if you look at that rent of $75 a kilowatt that you very well calculated you have to add $35 a kilowatt to look at the same rent in the Ashburn building.
So it comes to $110.
And Jordan one more data point that Hossein mentioned in his script that $75 rate is about 30% higher than what we were getting from that building at the time of our IPO 6 years ago.
Research Division</strong> Right.
What was the cash-to-cash number Jeff from the outgoing tenant to the new incoming number? Well the outgoing tenant left a couple of years ago so I don't really have that number in front of me.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other quick one maybe Hossein.
On the CEO search I really appreciate your commentary and addressing that upfront.
In terms of the timing it's not clear to me where you stand in the process and the timing felt like -- from your comments it kind of seemed more indefinite than it has at any other point since you've kind of initially brought it up.
And so is this still a 2014 event? Oh yes.
I believe it will be a 2014 event and I'm hoping that it will be sooner than that.
The -- it has gone on a little bit longer than I'd hoped and it would be -- let me address the thought that it would be a president that would eventually become CEO.
That was our press release last September.
It's gone on a little bit longer but we're focused on the right candidate rather than an immediate candidate.
And so I will -- I believe the president we'll find him this year or her this year.
We have some very exciting candidates we have a handful that we believe are qualified.
And we're going to hold the interview process.
Our next question comes from Gabriel Hilmoe at UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just a question for Jeff.
On the guidance not incorporating any incremental leasing for the remainder of the year does the range include the potential OpEx drag from ACC7 if nothing is executed this year? Yes it does.
So in other words Gabe if we don't achieve any additional leasing this year we would expect to hit the lower end of that guidance which includes the burden of carrying the OpEx for the unleased development.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the full drag is built in there at the bottom end right now? Yes it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess maybe just following up from an earlier question Hossein and just touching on the succession planning.
I appreciate the comments you made but has there been any increased challenge in terms of finding a viable candidate given one of your larger competitors is now looking for a new CEO as well? It's interesting.
I can't really comment on that.
We actually started our search way before that announcement.
And our candidate -- our competitor there is a $30 billion-enterprise-value company and we're like a $3 billion.
I don't think necessarily we're looking at the same candidates.
But that hasn't really come into our plans I would like to say.
Our next question comes from Emmanuel Korchman from Citi.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just quickly on the succession search just for one more minute.
You've been talking about having a handful of candidates for a while.
I think Hossein you just mentioned that you're -- it sounded like you're going to start interviewing unless that was just not what you meant to say.
Is the hold up on finding the right person or is the hold up on them having sort of either commitment or a scope issue or sort of what stage of negotiation if you will is the process at? Yes.
I'm glad you asked that so I can clarify.
Some candidates have gone through multiple interviews.
The interviews would be obviously with senior management here the board members showing them the properties.
Then there were some new names added to the candidates.
So to say -- and some of the newer candidates haven't interviewed with everyone.
We're a very small tight group.
We're only 94 people in the entire company.
Senior management is just a handful of people.
We want to make sure that the right candidate fits into the culture of the company perfectly and is the leader that we're looking for.
And so because we're focused on that we want to let the newer names that were added to the hat also go through all the interview process that the older names have gone through so we can make the right choice.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Maybe turning to your retail buildout.
I thought that there was going to be some of that buildout in 2014.
But now sort of without any available space anywhere except from New Jersey does that mean that that's going to be in either New Jersey or ACC7? Well Manny just one thing.
In ACC5 we still have 0.5 megawatt of space that we're planning to use for retail.
We just don't report it as available because we've now reserved it for retail.
That's correct.
So we have 0.5 megawatt in New Jersey -- I'm sorry 0.5 megawatt in ACC5.
And we have a little bit of space in New Jersey dedicated both to the Open-IX and to the retail.
But having said that ACC7 is -- can work for the hybrid between retail and wholesale.
We have a couple of RFPs that we're looking at that are around 200 kilowatts.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe on ACC7 have the negotiations or the potential negotiations changed with the Yahoo! news just because -- not even because it's been put on sublease but now there's certainty to the fact that that will be coming back to the market? Are people...
Not really at all.
I'm glad you asked that too.
It's not really -- subleasing data center space is extremely difficult because of all the extension periods and what is required.
People talk about it.
There's noise but it hasn't changed the dynamic especially because some of that space doesn't even come up for some multiple years.
So I don't see it affecting us at all and I haven't even seen anyone mention it in any negotiations.
Research Division</strong> So sort of a guaranteed expiration of ACC2 later next year hasn't been used as sort of a leverage point.
No not at all.
I mean people don't -- or customers don't really say "Oh I'm looking for space at the end of 2015.
Let's talk about it now." They talk about space they need now and then want to maybe grow into space by the end of 2015.
Our next call comes from Jonathan Atkin from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
I wondered if you can talk a little bit about the competitive environment.
The most obvious one being Virginia with new supply coming on from multiple parties as well as the new coverage of the market at CyrusOne.
And then maybe any commentary around Chicago or Santa Clara.
Northern Virginia is our best market.
We see a huge amount of demand from Internet from financial reporting smaller to large customers super wholesale market.
Chicago I can't really give you that much commentary except that I'm excited about it because we haven't had space there for a very long time.
Santa Clara obviously we feel very good about it because we are starting right now.
On today's call we've announced that we're starting an additional 9.1 megawatts of space.
The New Jersey space is our lesser-performing space.
However the tenants are extremely sticky.
They're consistent but it's slower to lease up.
What we have announced in the last couple of quarters is that we're taking a lower-density space and we'll have additional power left after Phase 1 is 100% leased.
And that will enable us to build parts of Phase 2 with significantly less electrical and mechanical infrastructure.
So that we'll use the power that is not leased in Phase 1 for Phase 2.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I might have missed this but the leasing activity subsequent to the end of the quarter what was the lease term on that? About 5 years Jonathan.
Our next call comes from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions guys.
The first thing is just trying to understand the lease that was signed subsequent to the quarter and also the lease that was signed this quarter.
The lease life is fairly short.
Was there any kind of unique to those 2 leases? You mean the leases going into VA3? Research Division</strong> Yes one's 6 one's 5 [ph].
Everything's shorter than usual.
Just wondering why.
I mean 5 is -- we're getting -- 5 is fairly normal 3 is a little bit shorter.
Frankly that tenant was a spin-off of an existing tenant and so we decided to accommodate.
But I don't think it's unusual and I fully expect to also have 10-year leases going forward as well.
So it's -- whatever -- it depends on the tenant's profile what they need their credit quality how much we want them all those things go into negotiations of the lease term.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just in Santa Clara I mean SC1 Phase 2a 50% pre-leased and again 50% pre-leased for a couple of quarters.
Just curious what you're seeing out there that gives you confidence in starting up Phase 2b.
Yes.
I kind of answered that before with Jordan as well.
I mean it obviously means that we see a big amount of demand in that market.
And the 50% don't forget we're not cutting it in quarters right? So we have 4.55 megawatts available and we're adding 9.1 megawatts available.
So we feel very good about that market.
We have a handful of deals we're working on and we see that market at least for our products I'm not saying every other product be very tight.
We've also heard from Facebook that they've taken off the market a considerable amount of their sublease space because they don't believe that they'll be successful in subleasing a lot of it.
So what that means is that the perception of the demand in the market also becomes tighter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then again just lastly on the CEO transition.
I know you've gotten quite a few questions on the call.
But again as you kind of look through these candidates and it could be a utopian question but kind of what are the 2 or 3 kind of really key skill sets that you're hoping this person brings that you currently don't have within the DFT management bench? I think the DFT management bench -- acquisition would be great.
We haven't done one yet.
So M&amp;A and some experience there would be great.
I would want someone who has some sales experience because over the term I'd like to be able to step up to Executive Chairman.
The -- some data center experience would be useful.
I think the team here is very strong in financial experience and real estate so I don't think we necessarily need those skills.
And culturally we're looking for someone who can get very fast used to the -- to working with the great team we have here.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That is helpful.
And just to clarify I noticed that you kind of talked about M&amp;A and sales experience first rather than data center or real estate experience.
Is that kind of the order of importance for you? I don't think that's meant in any particular order.
I was more looking at things that we haven't done rather than things that we have a strong bench strength on.
Yes I think Tayo the question was things that we're looking to add to our team and M&amp;A is one that we don't have a lot of experience in.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Great.
A couple of questions if I may.
Hossein I just wanted to understand if I heard you correctly about spot rate pricing.
I know you only have a handful of markets and there's only a limited amount of available capacity.
But it sounded like "yes we have some pressure on some of the mark-to-markets " but in terms of the spot rate pricing that it was stable to potentially positive.
And then I have a just a couple questions after that.
Well I think yes I see spot rate pricing stable or going up a couple of percent a year.
That's where we see it.
But again I only have a limited sort of deals to pull that from.
And I gave earlier on the call kind of Jordan's example of the rental rates that we have leased at VA3 and how that would translate to Ashburn.
Research Division</strong> Understood understood.
All right.
So 2 other questions.
First as you prepare to launch your retail business could you give us a sense of what incremental costs or staffing you're planning around that and how we might think about any potential implications if that's very successful or not so successful in terms of the financials? And then lastly and I understand that with your triple-net approach this won't be a big issue for you but we're hearing more and more about some of the data center properties out there being revisited from a tax base purpose on the real estate tax side and I'm just wondering from the geographies in which you operate whether you've seen any of that activity.
Okay I think you have several questions so I'll take them one at a time as I remember.
The -- I'll address them backwards.
On the tax side of the data center all of our leases are triple-net.
And yes we did experience an increase in real estate taxes in New Jersey and we did experience some in Santa Clara.
But on the opposite side of that as Santa Clara data center has grown our operating costs have also dropped.
The cost of operating a 36-megawatt data center is very different than operating a 10-megawatt data center.
And that's how we build these data centers so they can expand.
We're using the same security the same -- growing from a 10-megawatt data center to a 36 you may need 5 people that may increase to 7 people.
So the operating expenses drop significantly and that mitigates the cost increase of the data center.
Now I'll give you an example.
ACC7 is now -- we're projecting today the operating costs at 11.9 megawatts that we're putting out.
We're estimating that building will have approximately $30 per kilowatt in operating costs.
But in today's dollars when that building is a 41.5-megawatt building at that point we're projecting the operating cost to be approximately $18 a kilowatt.
So we could -- the real estate taxes there could be significant but our operating costs with our triple-net model are even going down because the size of the building will increase over 4 phases.
Sorry I lost your first question now.
Research Division</strong> The question was on the incremental staffing that you're doing around the retail operation.
And then...
Sure.
Sure.
Sorry.
Yes.
I want to reiterate again the amount of kilowatts that we're putting out and dedicating to retail is -- we're going out very slowly and we're putting out less than 0.5% of our entire portfolio.
That's the amount we're dedicating to retail.
Now I'll turn it over to Jeff to talk about the costs that I know are in the guidance.
Yes Jonathan.
In the guidance we included about $1 million to $2 million of costs in G&amp;A to staff up sales sales engineers and the personnel who would actually deliver the product to the customers.
So that's in there at $1 million to $2 million.
We did not project any revenue from the product to be overly conservative in our guidance.
So all revenue from the product would be upside.
Our next question comes from Kevin Smithen at Macquarie.
I wondered if you could walk us through your capital markets funding strategy and capital structure overview for the next couple of years.
It's Jeff Kevin.
Our strategy today is this year after paying all expenses in our preferred and common dividends we'll have $90 million of cash still left.
And we'll plow that $90 million of cash into our developments which we're now estimating this year between $270 million and $300 million.
The remainder of that would be funded through debt.
We drew $96 million in the first quarter on our unsecured term loan and then we anticipate drawing another $100 million on our line of credit.
Going into next year we will again generate positive cash flow after payment of dividends.
We haven't released a number but let's just use $90 million again as an example.
And in addition to that we would continue to borrow on the line to finish up CH2 Phase 1 and Santa Clara Phase 2b.
So we would continue to draw on the line.
When the line hit a certain level of drawing it's a $400 million line right now so somewhere between 50% and 75% drawn we would look to get permanent financing on that.
Our first thought would be preferred equity to turn it into that.
Great.
And Jeff maybe reiterate what we presume -- what we expect our leverage to be at the end of the year.
Oh yes.
On a net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio we expect the leverage at the end of this year to be about 3.5.
Our next question comes from Colby Synesael at Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
A few questions if I may.
First off as it relates to New Jersey and the foot traffic you've talked about that you're seeing through that facility is it your sense that if you were to get one of those customers to sign that they'd be able to commence that lease fairly quickly? So effectively we could see within a quarter's time not just the signing but actually the commencement.
So just trying to get a sense of what the potential magnitude could be on guidance if you were successful there.
The second thing and I noticed that the extension at VA3 that was expired -- that was expected to expire in 2018 it was only extended by as you mentioned 9 months.
It seems like a very short extension.
Just curious what may have happened there.
And then just one more if I can just get it in.
For Yahoo! is there a sense -- is that -- was that extra capacity that they just never ended up using anywhere? And I know they didn't use it in your facility but are they actually moving somewhere else or is it just -- it's kind of they over-provisioned what their expectations were for their overall strategy and that's not really shifting anywhere else whether it's internally or potentially to another competitor? Just trying to get some context there.
Okay on the lease extension the lease that we signed subsequent to the first quarter that customer already had space at VA3 and they just wanted their 2 leases to expire at the same time.
So their original lease was extended by 9 months.
That's why it was so short.
On New Jersey when a building is already open the way our leases are structured we give immediate access to the space and immediate use of power to the customer.
So that's our 2 criteria as to when the lease would commence.
Once those are met it commences.
For buildings that are already open I'd say 90% of the time they commence upon lease signing.
So we could get some significant pickup if we were able to sign a lease up there under the terms I just described.
I'll turn it over to Hossein on Yahoo!.
Yes on Yahoo! they have built a data center in Upstate New York close to Niagara where they have commitments I believe for a certain amount of job creation.
So some of it is going to that data center.
But as to how far their business is growing and where their search functions are going and how much their business is growing compared to their competitors I don't know.
Over time they have reduced significant amount of load in our data center.
But as to if it's shrinking or going all to Niagara I don't really -- I can't give you a good answer on that.
Our next question comes from Young Ku at Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Just a couple quick questions for me.
Jeff could you provide the estimated yield on the SC1 2b project? Yes.
Similar to SC1 Phase 1 and SC1 Phase 2a we expect the GAAP yield on the total cost we're spending there to be 9% to 9.5%.
But on the new cash that we're putting in the $45 million to $50 million we expect that new cash would return about 20%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful and one final question for me.
Hossein I know that you talked about kind of the sublease market being a difficult one in Northern Virginia and it feels as if you're okay with that.
My sense would be that you would rather have them kind of have some subleasing done before they move out to take some leasing risk away from you.
I'm just wondering why you think it's good for you guys that the sublease market a little bit difficult? Well I think if they do subleasing we'll obviously be happy to work with them.
If they do sublease the space I'll be excited to work with them depending on who they want to sublease it to the credit quality and how much that end customer is growing.
If they have a space absolutely.
If we're happy with all those terms we're happy to work with them.
I think ACC2 to my view will be impossible to sublease.
Because it is so close [ph].
LLC Research Division</strong> If you had a decision to lease ACC2 ACC4 and ACC7 which one would you choose to lease up first? Well ACC2 is the closest one so I would rather lease up ACC2 first because it's the closest one to expiration right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> So ACC2 before ACC7? I mean if I had a customer myself -- no before ACC7? Yes he threw that in there.
Oh I didn't hear you throw that ACC7.
It depends on the product.
Like ACC2 works better for a single-tenant building.
If we had a customer that wanted to be a single-tenant building I'd rather have them in ACC2 because it works better for that customer.
If it was a 1-megawatt tenant that wanted to grow over to 5 megawatts over 4 years I'd rather have them in ACC7.
So it depends on the -- what that tenant is doing and their growth profile.
LLC Research Division</strong> And the rents would be comparable to [indiscernible]? The rents would be comparable depending on the super wholesale versus not-super-wholesale nature of the tenant.
There is a difference between a 10-megawatt tenant and a 1-megawatt tenant.
But I don't think a 1-megawatt tenant would ever go into ACC2.
It's not suited -- it's not very-well suited for that.
Our next question comes from Charles Croson at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I'm filling in for Ross today.
So just a couple of quick ones since most of mine seem to have been asked at this point.
Just turning back to the Yahoo! subleases if they're going to have such a challenging time with this space why have they chosen just not to give it up at this point given you guys had a potential tenant there and you were willing to work with them on that? That's a very good question but that product from our understanding that we had in ACC -- they have in ACC2 was extremely sensitive and couldn't be moved.
So that application couldn't be moved last year whereas this year we believe it will be moved at the end of this year.
I even offered to say "Look I will move that application for you live.
Let's move because there are 2 rooms let's move it all to one room and just give me one room." They said "No absolutely you cannot touch it.
It's been internally ordered that you cannot touch it.
So we can't give you the space back." Research Division</strong> I see.
So it's just sort of a timing thing and they just can't work around that.
They just can't work around it because that particular application was so sensitive.
And I don't know what that application was.
And even if I knew I couldn't say it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
Just one more quick one here.
In terms of your actual product platform let's say 2 to 3 years out what do you see the portfolio being in terms of percentage of super wholesale wholesale like sort of a mid-wholesale and then a retail rent? What's your sort of target with all those different buckets? Yes I want to add here that -- to address that.
We already have with our subtenants with our tenants net2EZ and ServerCentral probably approximately about 10% of our portfolio is retail in that those tenants are already doing retail.
It's just that those tenants are getting the benefit of the upside.
So we are already in some ways in that business.
So super wholesale I think is like a good anchor tenant in a shopping center.
Like to have them some level super wholesale within our portfolio.
Those tenants will also sign longer-term leases.
Many of the -- some of the leases we signed at the beginning of last year were 20-year leases.
So those tenants are great anchors and long term work very well with us.
The 1- to 3-megawatt customers pay higher rent and some of those companies also have extremely high growth.
So ideally if I was going to say something if you could have half super wholesale -- say 40% super wholesale 40% regular wholesale and 20% retail including our subtenants in 3 to 4 years that would be ideal scenario.
I mean including the tenants that we lease to and they go ahead and lease to retail.
Does that make sense? Research Division</strong> No that's very helpful.
I appreciate the detail.
If I can just sneak one more in here.
In terms of the -- because you spoke about it with the CEO succession in terms of M&amp;A.
You mentioned acquisitions are something you haven't done.
What about in terms of capital recycling? Would you look to do something like that particularly on maybe some more of your older assets now that they're pretty much fully leased somewhere? I think we view our assets as total core assets.
So I would say no not necessarily that would not work.
Also a huge amount of dividend would need to be paid out if we did that.
So I'm not sure it really helps that much in the long-term balance sheet of the company.
Yes.
Going into the IPO so going way back in time Hossein and Lammot our other founder had already decided which were the core assets and sold off the noncore.
That happened years ago.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from John Bejjani at Green Street Advisors.
Please correct me if I'm wrong but I think it's taken about 2 years to backfill around 6 megawatts of Yahoo! vacancy out of VA3? That's correct.
Hossein you touched on this a bit in your discussion of ACC2 being a single-tenant asset primarily.
How do you expect the challenge and timing of re-leasing VA3 to compare to what it'll take to do the 24 megawatts at ACC2 and 4? Well 2 -- 4 let's address later.
Let me just address 2.
2 is within our Ashburn campus.
Already Jeff can correct me but I believe probably 60% to 70% of our leases is from organic growth.
So the organic growth within the Ashburn campus is enormous.
So having a campus that now by the end of this quarter will have 135 megawatts within the campus leasing an additional 10 megawatts to a super wholesale tenant I don't believe will be a problem for us at all on ACC2.
We see a huge amount of demand from super-wholesale-type customers running one form or another of cloud applications.
On the ACC4 if Yahoo! is available to sublease it in 3 to 5 years that's great.
If they're not it's something that we'll think about in 3 to 5 years.
I can't predict -- project that long for us right now because it's that far away.
And just one more differentiator there Hossein mentioned this in his script it was April 2012 when Yahoo! vacated VA3.
1 week later we had a sales tax exemption in Ashburn.
Therefore the demand went to Ashburn because of that $20 a kw amount difference that Hossein noted.
So if you take market rents at $100 for wholesale customers and that $20 would make it -- that's a big difference.
It's 20% of base rent.
Right yes.
That makes sense.
I guess a follow up on ACC2.
So do you think the fact that -- I guess the nature of demand out there right now the fact that you don't have a tenant in ACC2 to just grow organically within that building do you see ACC2 leasing up in small steps over time like a couple megawatts at one point and that same super wholesale tenant another couple megawatts a few years later and sort of step into that 10 over time? I see it leasing up in big chunks.
And don't forget it's -- these buildings really op -- the entire Ashburn campus really operates as one big building because all the buildings are within a tennis ball throw of each other.
So the other buildings in the campus that have embedded demand that super wholesale tenant those are the ones that we're targeting for ACC2.
Our next question comes from Dave Rodgers from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Jeff a question for you on the dividend and kind of AFFO and where cash flow is headed.
Obviously a big increase in the first quarter.
As you look forward do you expect -- AFFO now has surpassed FFO do you expect that to continue? Will AFFO likely outperform FFO over the next year or 2? And when you increased the dividend did you give yourself sufficient room to get through 2015 as well or are we still sitting kind of at near the taxable threshold for 2014? Okay.
Thanks for that question Dave.
So with AFFO we do not give specific guidance on that but we have guided that it would be higher than FFO this year which we've already achieved here in Q1 and expect that to continue.
The cash rents are growing faster than the GAAP rents due to our escalators in the leases and our super wholesale product not really giving a lot of ramp or free rent at the beginning of a lease.
So that trend we expect to continue.
We have plenty of room in our payout ratios 59% for our normalized FFO payout ratio.
Obviously AFFO would be less since it's a higher number.
So we have plenty of room to continue to grow the dividend as your taxable income increases or we just feel the need to grow the dividend.
So there's plenty of upside for that going into 2015 but we haven't given any specific guidance on that.
Research Division</strong> If anything next year looks like it'll be a much larger development completion year than we've seen from you in a couple of years.
Anything next year that you've contemplated in terms of either additional bonus depreciation or accelerated depreciation that could kind of keep that dividend lower and allow you to keep that cash? Or should we really continue to expect it to grow at the same pace of AFFO or income? Well just one thing.
This year we're putting 22 megawatts online and next year 16.
So next year is actually a little less.
But being a REIT we don't use bonus depreciation or accelerated depreciation for our real estate property.
We do it over the 39- to 40-year life that REITs are allowed to do.
Our next question comes from Jordan Sadler at KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's Austin Wurschmidt here with Jordan.
Just 2 quick ones.
You mentioned that leasing at ACC7 was going to be consistent with the historical lease-up at the Ashburn campus.
Could you just give us a sense of what the time frame might be? Is that 18 months 24 months? We've gone anywhere from ACC6 Phase 2 at 0 months it was 100% leased at opening to 18 months.
So that's kind of our range on that campus.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
And then with regard to the demand that you're seeing in Santa Clara can you just discuss what's driving that demand and the types of tenants you're seeing? Different forms of cloud applications is a lot of it.
Whether it's storage processing some of the newer companies in the Bay Area got a handful.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Hossein Fateh for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the upcoming NAREIT in June.
Thank you.
This now concludes our conference.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke the Manager of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's Second Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Foster the company's Chief Financial Officer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris.
And thank you for joining DFT on our second quarter call.
What a great quarter we have.
We doubled our leasing volume from the same period last year.
We renewed our remaining 2014 lease expirations.
We delivered 21 megawatts of new inventory.
We commenced 2 new developments and we reduced the cost of 3 major components of our debt.
Taken together these strong results allowed us to exceed the top end of the second quarter FFO guidance range.
As a result we are raising the midpoint of our 2014 guidance by $0.05 a share.
Jeff will share the components of the increase with you in his prepared remarks later in the call.
Right now let's focus on leasing the key driver of growth of our business and shareholder value.
Momentum was strong in the second quarter for every type of lease on existing space on pre-leases for new development and renewals of expiring leases.
In sum we leased 7.1 megawatts of new critical load.
In Virginia we benefited from organic growth as one of our existing customers took 2.6 megawatts of additional space at VA3.
This customer currently in -- this customer is currently in 3 of our 4 markets.
They have taken a considerable amount of space with us over the last 2 years.
This lease takes VA3 to 95% leased on a critical load basis.
We have only 700 kilowatts of remaining load to bring the facility to 100% leased.
As a side note this customer extended its existing 1.3-megawatt lease in VA3 by an additional 9 months.
Now their leases run in sync.
In California another existing Internet customer expanded their relationship with us by 2.5 megawatts in Phase 2a of Santa Clara.
This lease takes Phase 2a to 77% leased on a critical load basis.
Moving to Ashburn.
We signed our first pre-lease for 2 megawatts of critical load in ACC7 our newest data center in the campus.
It's a 12-year term with a new Internet customer.
This is an excellent rapidly growing company a great new logo for DFT.
Once we started getting towards ACC7 activity increased substantially.
Customers wanted to see the new design get in there and kick the tires.
The feedback makes us very optimistic about our ability to sign additional leases to fill Phase 1 which is currently 17% leased on a critical load basis.
I'm extremely proud of the state-of-the-art facility and all the efficiency that ACC7 brings.
It has flexible power densities and an extremely low PUE that translates to improved customer cost of occupancy.
And speaking of new customers we signed a 1.275-megawatt lease after the quarter closed with a new financial analytics customer in New Jersey.
This deal was a good example of the requirement we're seeing at NJ1 for space in the 200 kilowatt to 2 megawatt range.
New Jersey requirements are different from our other markets.
For example we have 9 customers in New Jersey representing approximately 11 megawatts of critical load.
This compares to ACC6 where we have 6 customers representing 26 megawatts of critical load.
The important thing is that we understand our customer needs and are able to deliver the flexible power densities required in this market.
All in all we're very pleased with the level of leasing we're achieving.
At 8.86 megawatts leased year-to-date we have more than doubled the activity we achieved in the same period last year.
One of the most gratifying aspects of leasing is customers' stickiness.
During the quarter we extended both of our remaining 2014 lease expirations by an average of 3 years.
The cash rent marginally decreased by less than 1% while the GAAP rent increased 6%.
Our next lease expiration isn't until June of 2015.
Adding to our organic growth 2 existing customers took more space with us.
That's a credit not only to the quality and efficiency of our data centers but to the service and responsiveness of our operations team.
We continually work to strengthen our relationships with existing customers.
Our goal is to always be in a position to satisfy their data center needs.
That brings our portfolio to 95% leased on critical load and 96% leased on square footage a great achievement.
Before I leave the leasing topic let me give you a quick update on Yahoo!'s subleasing efforts in Ashburn.
To date none of the 24 megawatts has been subleased.
As discussed getting the space subleased will most likely require a tri-party agreement.
As beneficial opportunities to our shareholders emerge we will cooperate with Yahoo! to sublease this space.
Now let's move to a development update.
In the last year the lack of inventory dampened our growth prospects.
With this quarter we have ensured we can meet future demand in multiple markets.
In May we placed Santa Clara Phase 2a in service with 9.1 megawatts of critical load.
We have commenced development on Phase 2b with an additional 9.1 megawatts.
We expect to deliver this space at the end of the first quarter 2015.
That will complete the build-out of Santa Clara 1 for a total of 36.4 megawatts of critical load.
We are bringing capacity to other markets as well.
We can now meet additional customer requirements in Virginia with ACC7.
In Chicago we plan to deliver 7.1 megawatts of critical load in the first phase of CH2 in the third quarter of 2015.
Now let's talk about Open-IX.
It's live at 2 DFT locations and is the first step in our retail offering.
An Open-IX exchange is now offered -- is now operating in both ACC5 and NJ1.
In each data center we have designated separate cabinet growth which we're calling the network growth.
Here customers can connect to each exchange within our facilities.
Currently we have one customer who's ordered a port with LINX at ACC5 and 2 customers who ordered ports with the Amsterdam Internet Exchange at NJ1.
Obtaining critical mass to the exchanges will take time.
However we're in a position to capitalize on these anticipated success of the exchanges.
Establishing the network exchanges and network growth have paved the way for the delivery of DFT's retail products.
We're getting great feedback from our customers on ways we can make this offering more valuable for them.
As we've mentioned we are starting very small at 0.5% of our total portfolio or 800 kilowatts.
This size enables us to scale as demand warrants.
Our target here is to have a full spectrum of data center solutions available for customers who have leases expiring in 2017 2018 and 2019.
Before I turn over the call to Jeff I want to update you on our succession planning.
The amount of time we've dedicated to the process may have some of you with questions you may ask.
Is the process taking too long? Am I hesitant to turn over the reins? Are candidates concerned about my willingness to transition from CEO to Executive Chairman? All these are fair questions and I'm happy to address them.
First let's talk about timing.
We run a very lean team here at DFT.
Corporate culture really matters to us.
As a result we've been very methodical in our selection process.
Board members and all of the executive team have taken time to get to know each candidate.
We want to get this just right.
Second let me address my motivations.
As the CEO cofounder and a large shareholder I'm passionately committed to the company's performance and prospects.
I strongly believe there's a new role in my future.
A deep bench is essential for our growth and I believe that the additional skills and experience needed will come with our chosen candidate.
And frankly the quality of the people that we're seeing leads me to believe that the transition will be brief.
I'm really looking forward to putting my data center knowledge and customer contacts to work as Executive Chairman.
We have advanced to a very positive stage in the process and believe you'll be pleased with the outcome.
And Jordan this time Godot will arrive.
With that I'll turn it over to Jeff.
Good one Hossein.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to cover 4 main topics today: our second quarter results a capital markets update our revised 2014 guidance and our dividend.
Our second quarter 2014 normalized FFO was $0.61 per share compared to $0.47 per share for the year-ago quarter an increase of 30%.
This exceeded the upper end of our guidance range by $0.01 per share which was primarily due to lower expenses.
Our AFFO per share continues to increase and have surpassed our normalized FFO per share.
This is a direct result of having cash base rent exceed GAAP base rent.
AFFO for the second quarter was $0.62 per share compared to $0.42 per share for the same quarter of 2013 an increase of 48%.
Quarterly revenues were $102 million.
This is an increase of $10.4 million or 11% quarter-over-quarter.
In comparing our first and second quarter revenues you will see a slight decrease of $137 000.
As you may recall from last quarter's call there was rather cold weather in the first quarter in several of our markets which increased utility rates at certain of our data centers.
This totaled approximately $2.5 million of additional utility expense which floated additional revenue in the recoveries from tenants' line items.
So the second quarter saw a return to more normal utility rates and resulting recoveries.
This leads me to our capital markets update.
As previously disclosed in May we exercised the accordion feature on our unsecured revolving credit facility increasing the total commitment out of this facility from $400 million to $560 million.
We also amended the facility to expand the accordion from $600 million to $800 million.
The interest rate has been reduced 30 basis points from LIBOR plus 1.85% to LIBOR plus 1.55% and the unused fee decreased 10 basis points.
We extended the maturity date from March 2016 to May 2018 which still includes a 1-year extension option.
To date there are no borrowings on this facility.
At the same time we decreased the interest rate by 30 basis points on our $115 million ACC3 term loan decreasing it from LIBOR plus 1.85% to LIBOR plus 1.55%.
Subsequent to the second quarter we amended our $250 million unsecured term loan and decreased the interest rate by 25 basis points taking it from LIBOR plus 1.75% to LIBOR plus 1.50% and extending the term a few months.
Taken together these rate and fee reductions lowered our interest expense by over $1 million annually.
Next let's discuss an update on our development and borrowing forecast.
As disclosed in our development table we've spent $64 million on SC1 Phase 2b as of June 30 2014.
Most of this was spent during the construction of Phase 1 on land and shell and during the construction of Phase 2a for redundancy.
As I disclosed on last quarter's call another $45 million to $50 million will be spent to finish Phase 2b bringing its total cost to approximately $110 million.
Phase 2a and 2b together will cost about $220 million which is $10 million lower than the cost in Phase 1.
Next let's talk about CH2.
We expect to spend about $200 million to get Phase 1 of CH2 in service of which $21 million has already been incurred mostly for the land.
Of the total spend $125 million is for future phases including land shell and redundancy.
The second phase of stage 2 will require very little incremental spend to open.
The total cost per megawatt for stage 2 including capitalized interest is estimated at $10 million to $11 million.
Cash on hand funds from operations and our untapped $560 million line will fund both our CH1 Phase 2b and CH2 and will fund both our SC1 Phase 2b and CH2 Phase 1 development.
Current projections call for approximately $75 million to $90 million to be drawn on the line at the end of 2014 which would increase to approximately $150 million in 2015.
This 2014 estimate of $75 million to $90 million is lower than last quarter's estimate of $100 million due to the generation of additional cash from the new leases signed and a shift in development cost from 2014 to 2015.
Getting the strength of our capital structure we have abundant capacity to grow our business without the need to issue equity.
I now would like to discuss our third quarter and revised full year 2014 guidance.
Our third quarter 2014 normalized FFO guidance range is $0.60 to $0.62 per share.
This is in line with the second quarter normalized FFO of $0.61 per share.
The impact of the new leases will be partially offset by the substation of capitalized interest at SC1 Phase 2a and ACC7 Phase 1.
We increased the full year 2014 normalized FFO guidance range to $2.38 to $2.44 per share.
This is an increase in the midpoint of $0.05 per share which is being driven by our leasing success and lower interest expense from the debt modifications.
As in the past the low end of this range assumes no additional leasing in 2014.
The remaining assumptions are disclosed in today's earnings release on Page 15.
A quick comment on our lease expirations.
As Hossein discussed we have renewed all of the 2014 lease expirations with less than a 1% decline in cash rent and an increase GAAP rent of 6%.
In 2015 and 2016 combined our lease expirations are less than 10% of our annualized base rent with 2015's expirations representing 6.4% of annualized base rent most of which is Yahoo! and ACC2 at 4.4%.
We are actively marketing this space which is ideal for a super wholesale customer.
We currently estimate that the cash decline in rents will be about 20% for the leases expiring in 2015.
We are not forecasting mark-to-market past 2015 at this time as we can see the monitored indications of upward pressure on our rents.
As an additional data point regarding our lease portfolio approximately 1/3 of our annualized base rent is from leases that have super wholesale pricing which are currently at market rates.
Last but certainly not least let's discuss the dividend.
The anticipated 2014 annualized dividend of $1.40 per share represents an estimated normalized FFO payout ratio of 58% at the midpoint of our guidance.
As leases are executed and commenced our dividend should increase accordingly.
We have strong financial metrics of which most are investment grade.
Our balance sheet is secure and we will utilize that strength to further grow the company.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein who will provide some final comments.
Thank you Jeff.
Let me leave you with the reasons I'm so excited about our future.
Our team and data centers are truly the finest in the industry.
DFT's customer base is getting stronger and more diverse with each new lease.
We are still on the front end of data center demand and there is no end in sight for the growth being driven by cloud and other Internet applications.
That said I want to thank my DFT team.
I know I expect a lot from you.
You all have given a lot to get us to where we are today.
Thank you very much for all your hard work and dedication.
With that let's go to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Emmanuel Korchman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Maybe we can start off talking about Ashburn a little bit.
It's a market where there are certainly some supply.
Just interested what are customers looking at specifically when they're make a decision to go to an ACC7 or elsewhere when they do have a few options that are sort of all available at the moment? There are not that many options under -- some of us have different product types.
There's some retail some what I call hybrid some are the bigger 1-megawatt type customers.
With Ashburn is very different in that our operating comp in that facility are some of the lowest in the industry.
ACC4 and 5 are $30 -- sorry $20 a kilowatt per month 2-0.
Our operating expenses are actually lower than what we originally projected.
ACC7 when fully built we expect it to be somewhere between $17 to $18 a kilowatt per month.
So that operating expense is the tenant's cost of occupancy and it's super important.
We give 2N at standard on the PDUs for all our tenants in Ashburn.
We have the sales tax incentive which are huge savings for tenants.
And we have 26 networks connected to the tenants.
So if you're an existing tenant it's an obvious choice that you want to expand within the campus to use the same labor pool.
If you're a new tenant they're the finest data centers in the industry with the lowest operating costs.
Research Division</strong> And that pre-leased that you signed there was that in line with your initial high yield expectations? Yes it was.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And Hossein I know you're always hesitant to talk about specific customers but given sort of recent news from Microsoft and them being such a large part of your leasing over the last year a little bit longer than that could you give us an update on sort of what you've heard there? What they're thinking? Or how that all impact or benefit you? Well they're a great customer.
We're very happy with them but specifically they're very happy with our service.
But other than that I can't specifically comment on any one customer.
I mean this is Jeff.
I'll comment on what they said publicly that they're seeing a doubling of their capacity every 6 to 9 months for the Azure products.
And certainly we benefited from that in the past and we hope to get our fair share in the future.
And our next question comes from Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> So I mean maybe an update there.
So any additional color you could provide on timing on this hiring process or where we stand? Sure.
I mean listen I'm the first one to take the heat because the timing has taken a little bit long.
However we're such a tightknit cultural fit.
The candidates themselves or herself is much more important to our employees to our shareholders frankly to me and to Lammot to the strategy.
We want to get that right.
All of that we want to get just right rather than going fast and doing a fast thing on timing.
So we feel very good about where we are and I feel very good about the company as a whole.
So it's the right time for me to -- I feel it's the right time for me to move up to Executive Chairman but we're just trying to get it just right.
Research Division</strong> Okay is it still a 2014 event you think? There's no time.
It's open-ended.
Yes.
I believe it's a 2014 event.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I want to come back to the Yahoo! space.
I appreciate the color you offered in terms of it not yet being backfilled but your willingness to do it right for shareholders.
Is there currently demand for that space? Or should we continue to think about it that ACC7 would be more likely to fill ahead of let's say ACC2 the September '15 expiration? What? There is a couple of big whales out there and for big whales they want a single tenant ACC2 is a better fit.
ACC7 is an unbelievable data center with the lowest -- the best efficiencies in the market perfect for 2- to 6- or 7-megawatt customers.
But if you want a single-tenant building ACC2 is perfect.
So there's plenty of Internet demand for all of the space above.
Research Division</strong> How -- as we look forward to 2015 and I know it's -- you haven't given guidance there yet.
It's still a little bit early but we are in the second half of '14.
By the time we speak again in the public domain it'll be closing in on '15.
So I'm kind of curious in terms of how we should be thinking about the timing of that move-out as we're looking at modeling and thinking about customers coming in now.
Should we expect that there will be a minimum of 3 months downtime in that space? I don't want to -- I'm not really willing to give forecast on modeling but I can tell you is they haven't moved out yet and I wish they had.
Had they've been out and had the space been available now we would have leased it.
Jordan there's certainly opportunity not to have 3 months of downtime.
We did achieve that in Chicago when a tenant moved out December 31 of '13 and the new one started January 1 of this year.
And with this much notice we have the ability to try to achieve that again.
There's no guarantees there but there are certainly a chance of no downtime.
Yes we asked for the space back and they haven't given it to us or unwilling to move the applications out of there that are so sensitive until we believe sometime -- I mean we don't have any time because it's coming up in September of 2015.
I mean I wish it was available now Jordan.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Right.
And I appreciate that.
In terms of the customer that you talked about in ACC7 you mentioned I think is a new Internet customer.
I was curious did you mean this is a start-up of sorts? Or is just a new Internet customer to you guys? No it's a new logo for us but it's a large company.
It's a new logo for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is this their first outsourcing? No it's their second outsourcing.
I mean I don't know for sure Jordan.
It's the first with us.
Research Division</strong> First with you guys okay.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess lastly as it relates to guidance you've got -- I know New Jersey was never in the guidance.
So I presume some portion of the bump this quarter was -- relates to New Jersey coming in and some of the other leases as well.
But how should we think about the high end of guidance Jeff? Like what's speculative in the $2.44 in terms of leasing at this point? Well I would definitely take some additional leasing to get up to the $2.44.
If we don't have additional leasing we say that we're at $2.38.
We might have some favorable expense control that could get up another $0.01 or $0.02 but the rest of it would need to come from leasing.
Research Division</strong> About $0.04 or so? Okay.
And our next question comes from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Jordan just asked all my questions but one of them I needed I think clarified.
The New Jersey lease is that reflected -- so the low end of guidance already includes the New Jersey lease? Yes it already includes the one we just signed in July.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
Question 2 is on -- I'm doing the accordion on the line of credit.
Why do it now if you only plan on being drawn on the line of say $150 million at some point next year once you fund the 2 development projects? Why did you need to act on the accordion now? I'm just curious what...
Yes that's a good question.
I mean our main thing was to get the lower rate.
We wanted to get that rate down 30 basis points.
When we spoke to the banks about doing that they indicated that even with the rate decreases there was a lot of interest in new participants coming into our line.
We always like to get new banks involved to have them as future relationships and we -- the one thing we did want to do is increase our unused fee expense by having more unused lines.
So we got the banks to lower that 10 basis points to make it neutral.
So for us it was a no-brainer.
We didn't increase our unused expense and we've lowered our expense when we start to borrow.
It kind of gives us additional balance sheet capacity.
Research Division</strong> Yes makes sense.
Okay.
And the final question for me is a general one on market rent trends and I know you guys gave a little bit of a comment that you weren't willing to give some rollover guidance beyond 2015.
But based on the trends that you're seeing in your key markets right now what is your expectation for where market rents go over the next year? I mean currently what we announced today is that the 3 renewals we did GAAP rents were -- sorry cash rents were flat but GAAP rents were up 6%.
And typically I believe the markets are stabilized and is increasing 2% or 3% each year on both wholesale and super wholesale.
Research Division</strong> So would it be fair to characterize the market as being in essentially some form of equilibrium? You think that's a fair characterization? Sure that's fair.
Increasing 2% or 3% a year.
Research Division</strong> Which of your markets if you had to sort of rank them right now best to worst in terms of on either side of that equilibrium equation where would you rank them? The best markets are Virginia and Chicago.
Soon after that follows Santa Clara and after that is New Jersey.
Our next question comes from Colby Synesael of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
I had a question on timing around potential changes to the dividend.
So when I look back the last few times you've changed it sporadically in the fourth quarter of '12 you increased in the second quarter of '13 and then more recently in the first quarter of '14.
Can you provide any color or any I guess maybe a better way to answer would be like what had been the drivers that ultimately made those dates when you've chosen to raise a dividend? Just so we can start thinking about when that could be coming down the pipeline.
And then the second question just real quickly obviously a lot of talk about Rackspace out there potentially being sold.
What would be your initial thoughts if you were to see tomorrow that the company is acquired as it relates to the potential opportunity or risk you would see them from them as a large customer of your own? Okay.
Thanks Colby.
This is Jeff.
I'll tackle the dividend.
The thing that drives our dividend is growth of adjusted funds from operations which we've been experiencing this year.
The things that drive AFFO growth is leasing and we've had a good year leasing so far.
So as leasing continues if we continue to hold that leasing momentum there definitely would be future increases in the dividend but it's too early to say whether those increases are this year or next year.
And with that I'll turn it over to Hossein for Rackspace.
Thanks.
So Rackspace is a very important customer for us.
It's not really for me to judge whether they're a $5 billion company or a $10 billion company.
We are essentially the providers of the space and the landlord.
So we provide the services and the space for them and we are -- work hard to please them.
And frankly if they get sold to a larger company potentially it's a credit upgrade for us.
But that being said our leases with them are extremely long term some of the longest-term leases we have.
And in whatever form we really look forward to working with them into the future.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Young Ku of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Hossein I think you talked about Yahoo! space that's up for subleasing.
You said it will most likely require tri-party agreement.
Is there a situation where that isn't required? Well there are 2 things on that space.
A shorter-term lease typically any tenant would want to be able to -- a tenant puts in a data center about double what we put into the building in terms of service.
So if we build that $7.5 million a megawatt a tenant may put in $17 million to $20 million a megawatt into the space.
And a shorter-term lease will typically that tenant would want the right to renew.
Also many times that tenant that subtenant would want to direct relationship with the landlord for requests potential sales tax incentive.
There needs to be -- there are multiple reasons why they may want a direct relationship.
So it's not impossible but it makes it very difficult to sublease without a tri-party agreement.
And we've seen that not in our space in other spaces in California.
I mean there should some other basic things with the data center or in particular versus an office building or something like that.
If the sublessee wants to add 5 people to the list of folks who are allowed to get into the data center without a tri-party agreement they're going to have to go to Yahoo! who's going to have to make that request to us.
When we inform Yahoo! that we're going to be maintaining a piece of equipment then Yahoo! needs to forward it on to the sublessee.
It's just very cumbersome without the tri-party agreement that direct relationship.
Yes and we may do -- we very often build out space for tenants and there needs to be certain alterations.
They may want more PDUs or more CRAC units.
They would need to directly contract with us and all of that would need to go through the prime tenant before they go to the subtenant.
It's not as similar to -- it's not at all similar to an office space.
This is mission-critical space.
And anyone running mission-critical applications would want a direct relationship.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one last question for me.
I know it's a little bit early to talk about 2015 but given that you guys have 2 big developments coming online and the -- that could impact the earnings by a significant amount.
So I just wanted to see if you can provide some color regarding some of the lease prospects by year end for Chicago and then maybe Santa Clara I mean maybe not exactly now but in terms of velocity at least for those 2 places.
Look let me address Santa Clara.
We feel very good about Santa Clara on the space we have available.
We only have right now 2 megawatts of space 2.275 megawatts left in Santa Clara until April of 2015.
So that -- our space there is very tight.
After April we have 9.1 megawatts and that 9.1 megawatts is really the best return money that we'll get because all the infrastructure has been spent.
We only spent $50 million on that 9.1 megawatts.
We feel very good about our prospects.
We are answering RFPs and we see that our tenant that are already in the building their load profile is growing.
And the most obvious place for the tenants to grow is within the asset itself.
Then on Chicago I wish we had more space in Chicago.
A little bit like I talked about in our prepared remarks our growth had been hampered by the lack of space that we have.
We had waited a little bit to get our design of version 3.0 to a perfect stage and as the same design electrical and mechanical design that's going in ACC7 that's going in Chicago.
So we wanted to get that design just right and then launch it.
So now we're ecstatic that we're going to have product in Chicago in 2015 because we've been 100% -- we've been turning down tenants.
The first Chicago building averaged about a megawatt a month leasing.
That's all the real history we have to give you in Chicago and we're up 7 megawatts there.
LLC Research Division</strong> And you expect Chicago and Santa Clara projects to lease-up pretty much and locked up with each other? We're not going to point making those predictions with both just starting their construction.
We see markets are very tight and tenant keeps growing.
And what's really exciting about our product is our campus environment and that we have Phase 1 and Phase 2.
Chicago we have one building on one side of the street.
The second building is on the other side of the street.
We have -- and we have a fiber duct bank that connects them.
This campus environment really helps.
It reduces our risk and increases our growth because the easiest place for tenants to grow that are currently in the building is across the street.
And we have 36 megawatts of load in Chicago building 1.
If you look at Phase 1 of Chicago versus Phase 2 it took us -- the Phase 2 delivered with a huge amount of pre-leasing and was significantly faster with Phase 1.
We've always experienced that as the various phases come online.
We have more and more embedded demand from the tenants already within the campus or in the building.
And our next question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So I will -- so the first question I just -- I have is on the comments Jeff you made about the decline expected decline in rents in 2015.
And I just wanted to clarify here because based on our prior conversations that decline that 20% decline is based on an expectation that the space will move from a wholesale to a super wholesale.
Is that correct? That's absolutely correct Jonathan.
Research Division</strong> Okay so but are they sort of like-for-like or apples for apples pricing Hossein's commentary about expectations is to flat to potentially seeing some mild increases is the right way to think about the market? That is true.
We don't think the ACC2 building sets up well for wholesale.
It's 2 5.1-megawatt rooms or 5.2-megawatt rooms which kind of gets you to super wholesale type customers.
If we were able to fill the wholesale you wouldn't have that kind of decline.
Research Division</strong> And the other 2% that's rolling over is that stuff that'll be just regular wholesale to regular wholesale? It's kind of too hard to tell.
There could be some that or there could be some of it converted to super wholesale.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then space that could accommodate either is what...
What Jeff is saying it could pick either tenant.
But obviously for us we prefer to select with wholesale rather than super wholesale because we get more money.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay.
So maybe you can give us your perspective as we look out over time what the ultimate mix of maybe super wholesale wholesale and retail might be within your footprint as we look out over a couple of years.
Let me see.
Super wholesale tenants are great to get a building started but eventually if the buildings that are multi-tenanted if the super wholesale tenants were not there we can always with the new design that's multi-tenanted building we have the option of rolling one at a time and getting wholesale tenants and getting higher rents.
So it's good to get them started with super wholesale sometimes and then roll as they roll we'll get some wholesale tenants in there and get higher rents.
So since 2007 all of our buildings have been designed as such.
We also help in that we're able to get the lowest operating cost out of the large footprint buildings.
And so even the wholesale -- super wholesale tenants can't get the economies of scale initially on their own because we may put 3 tenants together that are super wholesale that are each 6 to 8 megawatts on a couple of super -- I'm sorry on a couple of wholesales tenants and still a 36 megawatts building.
That building will -- for each of the super wholesale tenants may take 5 to 7 years to fill up.
But for us we do it day 1 and day 1 we give them the economies of scale that they wouldn't get on their own.
Research Division</strong> That makes a lot of sense.
And then I guess my last question here and I just want to kind of bring it all together because you laid out some good detail about the expansions that you were working on and them coming out.
And I think that the one part that we haven't really discussed is the incremental returns that you expect to get on these expansions.
And it's been my understanding that significant upfront cost in support of second phases means that as you put new capital to work we could look for much higher returns on that incremental capital than maybe the initial capital you deployed.
That's absolutely correct Jonathan.
This is Jeff.
For Santa Clara in totality for its $430 million $450 million that we will invest there we're still seeing in totality between 9% and 9.5%.
But on the incremental money because we had so much put out just to get Phase 1 opened Phase 2a was 14% 15% return range and Phase 2b will be over 20%.
And our next question comes from Kevin Smithen of Macquarie.
I'm calling for Kevin.
I have here some couple of questions.
First regarding the pricing and demand in the second quarter.
Could you speak up? We can't hear you.
The pricing and demand in sight for ACC7 like you said it's different than I think ACC2.
It's nearer it's more efficient potentially lower operating costs over the long run.
What kind of clients are you attracting? You said you got some good feedback.
What was the feedback? And how do you see that kind of carryover to your future development with your current construction projects? Sure.
I mean the -- one of the most exciting things about it is that the densities are flexible.
If you are a 100-watt per square foot customer and you're a bank you can be in the building.
If you're a 200 watts per square foot you could be in the building.
And even on certain occasions you could be in the building for 100 watts a square foot for 5 years and then come back to us and say "Can I double the amount that I want " and we could say "Yes you could double it." So the densities are flexible which is a terrific option for our tenants and that broadens the range of the type of tenants that we can attract.
And everyone knows Virginia has some of the lowest power rates and we have the tax incentives and the PUE in the building is less than 1.2 PUE.
Now that's only a PUE sometimes overblown as dollars savings but it is green because our other buildings are also 1.31.
So that's only $4 a kilowatt savings on the cooling even though because our other buildings have already been so efficient.
But the fact that it's greener some tenants like that some customers like that.
And even $4 a kilowatt per month there's still money.
So why not? Absolutely.
Another question when are we going to see some leasing activity in the guidance? And then also what would it take in order for you guys to start buying back shares? I know the current program expires at the end of '14.
What would kind of trigger that instead of another strategic alternative? Okay.
So on the putting leasing into the guidance I assume you're talking about the low end.
The low end doesn't have leasing but the midpoint and the higher end does have leasing.
We kind of adopted this strategy.
My predecessor adopted it a while back.
We thought it made easier for everybody to model and know where the starting point was and everybody could put their own leasing assumptions in and model.
So that's kind of the genesis of that.
We put our best estimates into the midpoint and then our up range into the high end.
So leasing is in there.
On the stock buyback today we are 52-week high so I don't think we're going to buy back at our 52-week high.
It'd be something we would hold if we felt the stock was undervalued and we wanted to send a signal to the market but we definitely don't want to do that on our 52-week high.
Well I think the other thing is we actually have a lot of capital needs.
We're building multiple data centers every year and there's a capital incentive -- very intensive business.
Our debt level has come down significantly from a few years ago but we do have significant capital needs.
So to buy back stock and then lever up at the same time I think it's best right now to use our capital where we're getting the highest returns in development.
No that makes sense.
If I can ask one more question.
You were talking about the cost per megawatt overall for the new Chicago facility and what is that cost compared to the ACC7 facility on a megawatt basis? Well to make them apples-to-apples I included capitalized interest in Chicago so that's between $10 million and $11 million.
And then for ACC7 it's between like $7.5 million and $8 million.
Chicago much much higher labor rates.
The cost of union labor in Chicago makes a big difference.
Is that the only -- is that really the only driver for the cost? Yes I mean land is a little bit more but really the only driver is the cost of union labor.
Same equipment.
Same equipment same concrete.
I mean it's just a journeyman in Chicago costs about 40% more than in Northern Virginia.
And Chicago being a little smaller building than ACC7 we don't have the same scale.
So that's a little bit of it but really it comes down to the labor.
It's about half the building costs overall depending on whether we do the work or the work is done offsite is about labor.
Does that entice you to any particular markets that you're not currently in? Right now what we're doing on the -- whenever we can is to build something offsite as much as we can and take it on-site.
But no our best opportunities are to expand in the current campuses.
That's the lowest hanging fruit.
We spent a long time building these campus environments.
So unless there's a big pre-lease we are absolutely sticking to the current campus environments because that's the money with the lowest risk and the highest returns.
And our next question comes from Dave Rodgers of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 final questions for me.
First I know it's early days in the retail strategy and your new network room but can you talk about the retail pricing strategy in terms of both how you're leasing space and any connections in those spaces? Yes.
Like I said it's -- we've only deployed -- we've only put out to do less than half a percent of our total portfolio.
The network rooms are in and what we're really looking at is we've talked to the consortium that helped put forward Open-IX.
You can google it up to who they are and we're talking to that consortium as to what they want and what they need.
We're getting the product ready in terms of the network in terms of the services in terms of the connectivity in terms of the density to get it just right.
And once the network rows are now done the Open-IXs are hooked up and we're going to start launching to -- and really the goal is to be ready in 2017 '18 and '19.
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] Chicago do you have any sense? Or can you give us some color on the competitive landscape in terms of how Chicago 2 will open relative to the other competitors that all seem to be focused on that market? One thing that's terrific -- one thing that we're very lucky and the strategy we like is the campus strategy.
We expect a significant amount of demand from our current tenants that are already in Chicago.
And we have 36 megawatts of load already in Chicago from across the street.
So it is -- and we haven't had any space there for quite some time now.
So as -- we're super excited about it and it's a pretty tight market.
Some of our competitors have announced that they're not building as much speculative space.
So we find that it's going to be a great opportunity for us.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Hossein Fateh for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to speaking to you again soon.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Hello and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Tech Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
Now I'd like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke.
Mr.
Warnke please go ahead.
Thank you Keith.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's Third Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Foster the company's Chief Financial Officer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income and operating income as applicable are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available on PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and thank you for joining DFT on our third quarter call.
I'm pleased to report a strong third quarter with all financial metrics meeting or exceeding guidance.
Before we discuss our strong quarterly results I'd like to update you on our succession process.
Finding the right person to lead DFT's next chapter of growth is such a serious undertaking.
It deserves careful time and attention but frankly our process has taken just too long.
The board and I have committed to a new and re-prioritized approach an approach with 2 important changes.
First we have changed the nature of the search.
It's no longer a search for a President.
It's a search for a CEO.
Initially we plan to hire a President who would transition to CEO after we had worked together for some period of time.
Now it's clear to us that we can move more quickly.
The successful candidate will be qualified appointed to CEO on day 1.
This leads us to our second important difference in our renewed search my ongoing role.
Rather than transition over time from CEO to a board role I will make that transition the same day as our new CEO is appointed.
Let me be clear.
I will be here to offer my full support to my successor be it in the form of data center knowledge or my customer contacts.
My support will come in the form of cofounder and board member.
These changes in our approach are important signals to a broader candidate pool and provides a refocusing event for the search.
Meanwhile the team and I are focused on producing results.
Our strong quarter provides evidence of that sharp focus.
During and subsequent to the quarter we signed 9.59 megawatts of new leases in our 3 markets with inventory extended the maturity of one lease by 2 years and entered into a tri-party agreement as part of Yahoo!'s sublease of 13.65 megawatts in ACC4.
This agreement is accompanied by a lease extension for 9.1 megawatts of that space.
Let me give you some color on those results.
Our business benefits greatly from the organic growth of our existing customers.
The 1.49-megawatt lease we signed in ACC7 is a great example.
This technology customer currently leases a space in Santa Clara 1 and has expanded its relationship with us in Northern Virginia.
Our operational expertise and state-of-the-art design assures this customer that their mission-critical applications will operate without interruption within our facilities.
This is our second lease within Phase 1 of ACC7 making the facility 29% leased on a critical load and 25% leased on a square footage basis.
We are super excited about the demand for our new version 3.0 design.
It replicates the reliability of the electrical design of our previous buildings with the added value of an extremely low PUE of 1.15.
We expect ACC7 will lease out in a similar time frame as our other Ashburn assets.
This takes me to New Jersey where we have signed a 1.27-megawatt lease with a new financial analytics customer the ninth customer in this facility.
This lease was referenced on our last call and commenced this quarter.
In monitoring the operations at NJ1 we noted that some of the customers were not able to fully utilize all the power density in our computer rooms.
Leveraging the ACC7 design we're able to apply some flexible density features to NJ1 in order to capture current requirements.
To date we are 59% leased on a critical-load basis and 70% leased on square footage.
Based on potential deals on the market we believe NJ1 has 3 to 4 megawatts of critical load available for leasing before rate floor is fully optimized.
If our assumptions are correct we will have 3 to 4 megawatts of remaining critical load which we can move to Phase 2 of the building.
This will allow a future Phase 2 with a much lower investment since significant amount of capital has already been deployed into Phase 2.
We will only consider additional development when the time and demand drivers are correct.
Now on to Santa Clara.
Two of our existing Internet customers again expanded their relationship with us.
Subsequent to the third quarter one customer signed a 1.14-megawatt lease in Phase 2a and a 4.55-megawatt pre-lease in Phase 2b.
The second customer signed a 1.14-megawatt lease for the remaining space in Phase 2a.
Phase 2a is now 100% leased.
Phase 2b now has reached the 50% pre-lease mark.
Demand in Santa Clara is robust.
We're confident in our ability to lease the remaining 4.55 megawatts of space in Phase 2b.
Let's talk about ACC5.
As discussed on our last call we extended the lease term of our only remaining 2014 lease expirations by 2 years.
This now brings that lease exploration to December 31 2016.
Our next lease expiration is not until June 30 2015.
That takes us to Yahoo!'s sublease of 13.65 megawatts of space in ACC4.
This week Yahoo! sublet this space to one of our existing Ashburn super wholesale customers.
As part of this arrangement we entered into a tri-party agreement with Yahoo! and the subtenant.
This gives us a direct relationship with the subtenant on all operational matters.
That said Yahoo! remains bound under the original lease and is obligated to us for all of its payments.
We said that we would only enter into a tri-party agreement if it was beneficial for DFT.
This is beneficial on several counts.
First it deepens our relationship with one of our fastest-growing companies.
Second this sublease takes a huge amount of space off the market in Northern Virginia.
Third we entered into a lease with a subtenant that extends the lease term on 9.1 megawatts to coincide with the balance of the space.
This 9.1 megawatts of space was originally set to expire in 2017 and 2018 and now has been extended to March 31 2019.
Jeff will discuss the GAAP and cash impacts later on on the call.
All in all we're very pleased with the level of leasing we have achieved this year.
To date we have signed 9 leases with an average lease term of 5.6 years.
This totaled 17.17 megawatts of critical load.
These leases will generate approximately $18.2 million of annualized GAAP base rent.
It's really interesting to note the leases signed since the last earnings call are $5 per kilowatt higher than those reported on our last earnings call.
Excluded our recently deployed ACC7 facility our operating portfolio is 96% leased on a critical load and 97% leased on a square footage basis.
We believe this success reflects the strength of our customer relationship and the recognition of DFT as the premium data center brand in the industry.
Overall I am very pleased with our operating results our leasing performance and the ongoing demand for our business.
With that I'll turn it over to Jeff.
Thank you Hossein and good afternoon everyone and a special congratulations to all you Giants fans 3 out of the last 5 World Series isn't too bad.
I want to cover 4 main topics today: our third quarter results capital markets update a guidance update and our dividend.
Our third quarter 2014 normalized FFO was $0.60 per share compared to $0.51 per share for the year-ago quarter an increase of 18%.
The increase was a result of higher operating income primarily from new [indiscernible] that primarily resulted from all our refinancings over the past year.
Our AFFO per share continues to increase and reached $0.64 per share this quarter compared to $0.52 per share for the same quarter of 2013 an increase of 23%.
This increase is due to commencement of new leases the burn off of free rent grants our normal 2% to 3% annual cash rent increases and lower interest expense.
Quarterly revenues were $105.6 million.
This is an increase of $9.3 million or 10% from last year.
You may have noted that we added an additional disclosure to our supplements relating to same-store growth which is on Page 12 of our earnings release.
Similar to our peers we have 2 separate calculations with same-store.
The first is simply labeled same store and includes properties placed in the service on or before January 1 2013.
This includes all of our properties except ACC7 which was placed into service this summer.
This analysis shows same-store revenue growth of 8.7% when comparing the current quarter to last year's third quarter and 2.8% sequentially.
On a 9 months basis we grew revenues 11.7% year-over-year.
Cash NOI grew 11.6% when comparing the current quarter to last year's third quarter 3.8% sequentially and a healthy 17.3% when comparing the first 3 quarters of 2014 to the first 3 quarters of 2013.
The second chart represents same-store same capital.
Like the first chart it excludes any data center placed into service after January 1 2013 and also excludes data centers where the available critical load was increased by 10% or more since January 1 2013.
This resulted in ACC7 and SC1 being excluded and SC1 Phase 2a which was placed into service this spring increased available critical load at SC1 by 50%.
I would now like to discuss the Yahoo! sublease which Hossein previously mentioned.
As we disclosed in our earnings release we signed a new lease with the sublessee.
The rates on the new lease are 30% lower than Yahoo!'s current rates.
These new rates do not go into effect until the underlying Yahoo! leases expire in 2017 to 2018.
When the new leases begin in 2017 and 2018 GAAP rent will decline 26%.
Although the magnitude of this reset is specific to these leases the rent we will receive during the extension term is consistent with our then escalated super wholesale rates.
In 2007 when Yahoo! signed their original lease wholesale rents reflected the lack of available data center space and included 3% annual escalators.
We're now 7 years into high base rents that have escalated well above inflation.
Yahoo! will pay us the escalated rents during the balance of the original lease term.
Having cleared this hurdle our only remaining Yahoo! space in Ashburn is ACC2.
This lease expires next September.
We are still expecting a 20% decline in cash rents.
Yahoo! pays $20 less than base rent on this lease versus the ACC4 lease which is leading us to predict the lower decline in cash rents.
There are super wholesale requirements in the market for which we believe ACC2 will be well-suited.
Once Yahoo! provides us with a definitive move out date potential customers will have a clear time line to accurately plan their deployments.
This leads me to our capital markets update.
In July we amended our $250 million unsecured term loan and decreased the interest rate by 25 basis points taken from LIBOR plus 1.75% to LIBOR plus 1.50% and extended the maturity date from February 2019 to July 2019.
Our stock repurchase plan which allows us to purchase up to $122.2 million of common stock expires at the end of this year.
During the first 9 months of 2014 we did not purchase any shares and the full amount is still available for purchase.
Next an update on our development and borrowing forecast.
Since SC1 Phase 2a is now 100% leased I can report its ROI as 9.2%.
We expect a similar ROI for SC1 Phase 2b.
As disclosed in our development table we have spent $93 million on SC1 Phase 2b as of September 30 2014.
About $50 million was already spent during the construction of Phase 1 on the land and shelf and on Phase 2a for redundancy.
We anticipate additional $14 million to $20 million will be needed to fully complete the Phase 2b build-out bringing the total cost to around $110 million.
We are forecasting that Phase 2b will be placed into service early second quarter of 2015.
Now let's discuss CH2.
We expect to spend about $200 million to get Phase 1 and Phase 2 in service of which $55 million has already been incurred mostly for the land and shelf.
Of that total spend $125 million is for future phases including land shelf underground infrastructure and redundancy.
The second phase of Phase 2 will require very little incremental spend to open.
The cost per megawatt for Phase 2 is still estimated at $10 million to $11 million.
We expect to deliver the first phase consisting of 7.1 megawatts in the third quarter of 2015.
To date we've drawn $50 million on our $560 million line.
We expect to draw an additional $20 million to $40 million on the line by the end of 2014 which would increase to approximately $150 million on the line by mid-2015.
The additional draws along with our excess cash flow will fund SC1 Phase 2b and CH2 Phase 1.
Given the conditions of the financial markets next year we may look into taking out the balance on our line with a long-term fixed facility possibly in the form of perpetual preferred or bonds if the terms are favorable.
Our balance sheet remains strong and provides enough capacity to continually fund our growth for the next few years without the need to issue any equity.
I now would like to discuss our fourth quarter and revised full year 2014 guidance.
Our fourth quarter 2014 normalized FFO guidance range is $0.61 to $0.63 per share.
This is an increase of $0.02 per share from the third quarter's normalized FFO of $0.60 per share.
The increase is primarily due to the new leases.
We increased the bottom end of the full year 2014 normalized FFO guidance range by $0.03 a share and tightened the range to $2.41 to $2.43 per share.
This is an increase in the midpoint of $0.01 per share which is being driven by our leasing success.
As in the past the low end of the range assumes no additional leasing in 2014.
The remaining assumptions are disclosed in today's earnings release.
We will release our 2015 guidance on next earnings call.
If we were to release the 2015 guidance today our midpoint of normalized FFO per share would be roughly equal to the analyst consensus of $2.53.
Last but not least let's discuss the dividend.
On October 15 we paid our quarterly dividend of $0.35 per share.
The anticipated 2014 annualized dividend remains at $1.40 per share which represents an estimated normalized FFO payout ratio of 58% at the midpoint of our guidance.
As our FFO and AFFO continue to grow our dividend will also subject to board approval.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein who will provide some final comments.
Thank you Jeff.
Let me leave you with some reasons why I'm very excited about our company and the data center market.
We feel that pricing in the market has stabilized and is trending upwards.
Our customer base is expanding with both new and existing logos.
Overall data center demand continues to be very strong and we are poised to capture our share of it.
With that I'd like to thank the employees of DFT.
Your contributions make this company a leader in our space.
Thank you all for your hard work.
With that let's go to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is I'd love to get an update on where we are in terms of the base between super wholesale and wholesale rates and maybe you can sort of give us a little bit of visibility in terms of the leasing year-to-date as well how that broke out.
And then my second question just has to do with further expansion.
Can you sort of weigh the considerations of maybe expanding further in some place like Santa Clara where I believe Hossein that you own a bunch of land already right near the existing facility but the yield so far have been under 10% versus pressing into a new market.
Okay.
Thanks.
I'll address first the question regarding super wholesale rates.
As disclosed in the past our super wholesale rates are in the low 80s.
Our wholesale rates are somewhere depending on credit depending on the size of the tenant depending on the tenants' growth is somewhere in the low-100s but that can vary $20 per kilowatt.
That's -- and both of these I'm quoting you triple-net without OpEx.
To go on to the second question about growth well Santa Clara we still have 4.55 megawatts remaining.
That remaining space is giving us a huge yield because the new money invested in that space was considerably less.
Most of -- a significant amount of the money was invested in the previous phases.
So as far as expansion and growth we're really going to expand and grow in 3 markets.
Northern Virginia has been a very solid market for us.
Chicago will continue to grow in ACC7.
Chicago we're just delivering a building next year and Santa Clara currently on the 4.55 megawatts will continue to grow and then long term we are committed to the West Coast but not necessarily expanding in areas with lower returns.
And Jonathan let me add something on the super wholesale question because I think I know what you are getting at there.
So in the past I've stated about 1/3 of our portfolio was already priced at super wholesale rates and that there was probably another 1/3 given our tenant concentration that would eventually convert it into super wholesale rates if those customers stayed with us.
With this recent Yahoo! sublease and lease extension with one of our super wholesale customers those numbers are now 40% of our portfolio is priced at super wholesale with about another 25% remaining that could be converted into super wholesale.
So I hope that helps.
And the next question comes from Emmanuel Korchman from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> If we think about the ACC4 leases now been done I believe that's the asset where you guys were going to implement your colo strategy and sort of expand from there to take up some of that space.
Is that now off the table or is that going to go elsewhere? Well I think the thing about data center space it is to a large extent fungible.
We're going to start the data center our retail model our version of retail which is about from 100 to 300 kilowatts in ACC5 where there is about 0.5 megawatt remaining.
And from there in Virginia we'll expand into ACC7 with flexible densities that have flexible densities.
We'll also be doing it in New Jersey.
So those are the 2 areas we're focused on because the space have leased up.
Research Division</strong> And then with the tenant that's taking the sublease did they look at ACC7 and you sort of steered them towards other asset or did they go to Yahoo! first? Can you walk us through sort of how that relationship happened or how that...
We have a very solid relationship with the tenant.
They wanted a large amount of space and frankly we didn't have all the space they wanted in ACC7.
So it was really the only remaining option for them but we have a terrific relationship with that tenant.
We didn't have 13 megawatts elsewhere.
Research Division</strong> Yes and I think Michael has a question for you as well.
I'll ring you up to keep the limit.
And the next question comes from David Toti with Cantor Fitzgerald.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to maybe explore a little bit the recent uptick in leasing velocity and sort of ask if you think this is sustainable momentum going into the end of the year and early next year maybe even quantify if you can any conversations you might be having now that you think are fairly solid and might materialize in the near term.
I think all the players in the market were seeing uptick in leasing more discipline in demand more discipline in supply in the market and more discipline in not lowering rents beyond a certain point.
So we're all cautiously optimistic that will continue.
Listen every day we hear about a new internet company that used to be 2 megawatts and now they want a dozen megawatts of space.
So the larger customers are also becoming much larger.
For some tenants I see an insatiable appetite of demand for data centers.
Some of the numbers I'm hearing are -- I'm just shocked by how large the loads are.
David one of our cloud customers put out in one of their blogs that their need for data center space for its cloud product is doubling every 9 months so quite impressive.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then I had sort of a -- just my second question's a bit left field.
Would you be willing to lease to big coin [ph] miners and have you already? We don't have them as customers.
Depending on credit we would look at it.
Their requirements of data have been for literally no redundancy which doesn't match well with our product.
And the next question comes from Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes so I was interested in drilling down a little bit on Chicago with CH2.
Can you remind us if you had any pre-selling activity going on and what are sort of your leasing expectations in that market given that there are depending on how you define it a couple of competitive projects and new inventory in that market.
And then with regard to Virginia and Santa Clara just also interested in kind of the tone of competitive activity and the leasing that you've done.
Some of it's been with new customers.
A lot of it's been growing with existing customers but how competitive were those negotiations? In Chicago we're very optimistic.
That's been our second-best market.
It's always performed very well for us.
As you know Chicago the first building is 100% leased.
Our building there is right across the road from our first moving our fiber conduit going across it.
I wish we have had space there earlier.
We would certainly lease some.
We have not leased anything yet but it's still too early to be doing large or any leasing of that large sizes there.
I am very excited about the building because we're using the same design as ACC7.
We expect to have the same very low PVs in Chicago and we will have the flexible densities where you can -- it takes space with 100 watts a square foot all the way up to 250 watts a square foot.
So that should give us a clear advantage over the market.
As in terms for Virginia and Santa Clara I think our demand speaks for itself.
We have a decent pipeline in both markets.
We do compete efficiently but our existing customers certainly recognize us as the premium brand and other things being somewhat equal they would prefer to grow with the existing space.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I was interested just in connectivity and Open-IX and kind of any update on that front since you are part of that initiative.
I've done a handful of customers in Virginia and we're continuing to sign more customers on.
We're starting to get some eyeball networks which will be very effective since we will have the content.
Many of the content can directly connect to eyeballs bypassing some of the long-distance providers.
So we do think it will take a long time to take hold.
It's not an immediate thing but we've had good traction on that to start with.
And frankly since we didn't really have much retail we haven't had much need for it in the past but going forward it's something that we'll continue to invest time in.
And the next question comes from Colby Synesael from Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
Two questions if I may.
First off as it relates to the ACC7 design I thought I heard you say that you're doing something in terms of utilizing that design in New Jersey and I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about that.
And are there other data centers potentially in the base where you could apply what you've learned with ACC7 on a retrofit basis? And then the second question just has to do with the dividend.
From a modeling perspective is it fair that we should just look at the payout ratios remaining fairly consistent? It's just a matter of how fast the AFFO grows or could the payout ratio actually start to increase? And then also just a sense of when you guys do decide to make a change what's the timing around that? Yes Colby if I can ask you to put your phone on mute.
I think there's a buzz on your end but I'll take the design questions and I'll ask Jeff to take the dividend question.
On the design question what we've learned is to be able to expand the Iso Parallel rebuff [ph] while having to live load on it that's been a -- that's one of the reasons we're able to build in smaller phases and add to the existing bust.
We've successfully tested that in ACC6.
We did it again in Santa Clara and we're going to do it again in ACC7.
So what that would mean is that what we do have is have bigger PDUs in a room to start with.
Some of that technology's somewhat proprietary and without really spending more money on the building we're able to simply add load from one side of the building to the other side of the building.
And even if we have some unleased space on the building a tenant can come if we have some unleased load and they can say 4 years from now "Can we have 2 extra megawatts?" If they're using a certain amount of space we can give them the additional load.
That we're going to successfully implement in the new designs going forward.
Having said that we also recognize as time goes on that the density per cabinet is actually going up.
So while other buildings in the industry may be limited on their density we recognize that our buildings will have a very long useful life and that some of them are already 240 watts a square foot.
So I hope that answered your design question.
But with that I'll let Jeff explain the dividend question.
Yes.
Thanks Colby.
So on the dividend being a REIT we have to pay out all of our taxable income as dividends.
So we have to keep that into mind but we also look very heavily at our ratio payouts for FFO and AFFO.
Over the past 20 quarters we raised the dividend 6x so the average rate in like once every 3 quarters shifts because our growth in cash that we produce has been so large and I would expect that to continue into next year.
So I would look at AFFO and FFO as like a proxy and you can continue to model off of that.
We could easily increase the dividend higher than the 58% payout ratio it is today because we're generating $90 million of cash this year after dividend payout but we're choosing to keep the balance between the dividend growth and using this cash to fund our development and we will keep doing that in the future.
And the next question comes from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to the CEO search for a second.
So I guess the change in the scope the couple of changes you've made in terms of the search process obviously helpful in signaling and potentially sourcing a new CEO.
I'm curious one with the adjusted or expected time frame it is now at this point because it sounds like you guys are frustrated with the -- with how long it's taken as well? And separately Hossein on your point that you'll be a board member and a supportive player do you -- would you expect to be in a Chairman role or in a Director role? Okay let me kind of take it both ways.
Yes I mean we do feel that this has taken longer than it should.
And originally what we were going to do is have this person as President and over time be groomed to be CEO.
During the search process we found that perhaps we were limiting some candidates who could be terrific day 1.
This is a great company and a great job.
So I don't -- with the expanded role we have been able to take -- to interview some very qualified people that may have otherwise not wanted to be interviewed as there was no definite time frame.
So I'm cautiously optimistic about our prospects and some of the prospects we see I really like.
And to answer your second question we just interviewed -- for example we have 4 new candidates that we're interviewing now and some of them I really like.
To answer your second question I want to be helpful as much as the new candidate wants me and the board wants me.
I'm a cofounder.
I'm a very large shareholder.
I'm dedicated to the company.
So it's a little bit dependent as to title and role.
I'm happy to be -- I'm happy to take on the title that the candidate and the board is comfortable on.
So it really depends on the ultimate candidate and how much the company would want me involved.
I want to be as involved as much as they need or want me.
Research Division</strong> Okay that makes sense.
It's helpful but -- and what did you say time frame? Time frame I didn't say.
So I on purpose didn't answer that question.
Research Division</strong> But hopefully soon not another year? I should really hope so that it's not going to take another year.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
My second -- my follow-up was just because you didn't answer that I had a follow-up.
So that was -- that is my first question.
My second one was just on the sublease.
Can you -- I thought ACC2 -- I mean ACC2 is obviously the sooner exploration I believe that's September of next year and that's still hanging out there it seems.
Why were you unable to steer this large existing customer into that space which is more of a super wholesale friendly space? I think it's a very good question and I wish we could have -- the answer is Yahoo! has some application in ACC2 that they just won't lease and they told us that it's going to lease sometime early next year.
I just have to see it.
We've toured people through it but they -- I even offered look I'll move that application line myself.
Product's not going to interrupt it.
We'll move it.
And they said "Absolutely not.
Don't touch that application." And this is somewhat normal.
We see some applications are movable like search.
There are other applications some storage devices that are absolutely not movable without much a lot of difficulty.
So it's -- the answer's really availability.
Research Division</strong> So we should -- so I'm sorry the new tenant that's taking the ACC4 space is moving in right away? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it was available right away.
Okay.
And the next question comes from Tayo Okusanya from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> So another question around the sublease.
With all everything kind of lined up now to expire in 2019 that's 5 years from now.
Was there any conversation at any point about trying to get a longer lease duration with the sublessee maybe 10 years rather than just 5? I mean this is a very good customer of ours.
They wanted 5.
They wanted to make this work for them.
The same customer we have a great relationship with.
We're doing deals with them elsewhere.
So there were some conversations but that's what they wanted and we gave in to the customers' needs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Then efforts to again build the co-location franchise I mean so you made a couple of comments earlier about Open-IX is going to take some time to ramp up but just in regards to overall product design anything that's happening specifically to any -- in regards to any of the data centers to really kind of get co-location space ready within it? Yes it's a good question.
We're responding to cage product RFPs between 100 to 300 kilowatts with minimal service.
I'm confident we'll be successful at getting some of those customers.
And as demand for that product surfaces we'll apply new data center space to that product but it seems to be getting traction.
But at the moment I wouldn't say we're only dedicating right now less than 0.5% of our portfolio to it.
And the next question comes from Young Ku with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Just one follow-up on succession plan.
Now that you're searching for a CEO position are you guys more -- looking for someone who's already a veteran at the data center space or still considering someone that's outside of data center? We're looking across the board.
We're looking for someone that has a big amount of gravitas and a big amount of experience in running an organization similar to ours but not necessarily from the data center industry.
LLC Research Division</strong> And as it stands today...
Sorry I didn't hear that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes as it stands today how many candidates are you guys looking at? We're not going to comment specifically on the number of candidates.
And the next question comes from Matthew Heinz with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I'd like to hear your view on the balance of demand I guess from large Internet customers and perhaps content customers between multi-tenant and proprietary builds and I guess whether you're seeing a shift in the marketplace towards one or the other.
And then secondly maybe just an update on how you're thinking about your own development cost and PCO over several years versus some of the more modular design concepts in low-cost regions that are being deployed by large Internet companies.
Yes I'm happy to take on that question.
I think when you look at our design where we are very successful and it's just math and it's impossible to do what we're doing on a smaller scale is the operating expense.
Look at ACC5 we run that building including base load without direct power and cooling at $20 per kilowatt per month and that's a 36 megawatt building.
Our ACC -- not ACC VA3 the same building at 13 megawatts runs around $38 per kilowatt per month so significantly higher operating expense and just -- that is just because of size.
So ACC7 with 41 and change megawatts of critical load when fully deployed so even a much much -- it will be even lower than in today's dollars $20 per kilowatt.
So for a large customer and you hear that from say Rackspace they say DuPont Fabros will put us together with 2 other very larger customers and a handful of smaller customers in a 36-megawatt building and day 1 they get the operating expenses of a very efficient data center.
Even an 8-megawatt customer if they wanted to do that day 1 they would need like 36 megawatts so 8-megawatt customer may take them 5 or 6 years to get to that economy of scale.
So it's -- from that sense this is very efficient.
For a 2-megawatt customer it's a no-brainer.
For that customer we see that all the time that hey what were we even thinking trying to build our own data center? Even though their cost of capital could be 20% less than ours they're going to get killed on operating expenses.
The 2-megawatt customer may well cost them $80 a kilowatt on operating expense.
You still need security.
You still need 4 or 5 people to run the building and the majority of that is labor.
And we see a trend right now easily for this 1 to 2 to 8 or 10-megawatt customer saying we don't want to outsource.
We want to take advantage of a 5 or a 7 or a 10-year lease where otherwise we wouldn't have to and frankly DuPont Fabros knows how to run these buildings better than we do.
They buy more generators than we do and they buy more UPS systems than we do.
So we see that as a trend in outsourcing and financially it makes more and more sense.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then just back to the first part of the question about the balance of demand.
It still seems like we're seeing a fair amount of [indiscernible].
Yes we see a huge -- like I said in some of the Internet customers like Jeff quoted we see an insatiable amount of demand and they're all the names that you all have read.
Some of them have gone public in the last 5 years.
Some of them still have not gone public.
Some of them are very large already public companies that have been public for 20 years.
So one way or another all these companies have different colors of application that they're each going after and the Internet is still growing very rapidly.
The Internet is changing the way we all live and all of that is reflected in data center demand.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And I guess more specifically have you thought about any ways to sort of quantify the strategic rationale behind even at a hyper scale type of enterprise data center what would be the rationale or the value behind continuing to build proprietary space? Well I mean yes I mean some of that is look if you're working for a government agency whatever you do they're not going to come in to shared space.
So that is one clear example that we see.
Some of it is they believe their applications need to be 2N applications.
If they're 2N applications we're N+2 really operating at N+5.
We're not going to get there for everybody but I think for 80% of the sector we're there.
Some of them just haven't made the transition to an outsourced sector.
They're just being historically doing it their own way.
They've done it their own way for 20 years and they're still transferring.
And we see companies all the time.
Still come in and say "Oh we haven't looked at this.
We looked at building our own data center but now that we see your model it doesn't make sense anymore and it makes sense for us to outsource." So with all the companies in the sector I would say 90% of the sector still has not converted to outsourcing and I will -- I believe in the enterprise sector that 90% will over time transfer because financially it makes a lot more sense.
And the next question comes from Kevin Smithen with Macquarie.
This is Will [ph] for Kevin.
I just wanted to touch on the point you made earlier about the leasing rates coming up since Q2.
I think you said it was something like $5 a kilowatt.
I was wondering if you could kind of shed some light on that.
And then I was also wondering I think you mentioned at some point in a previous call or discussion that you were working with a marketing firm or a consultant because you hadn't done any marketing outsourced in the past.
Has anything come of this or has this been any help to your improved leasing momentum? Kevin it's Jeff.
Yes on the increase in rates in the $5 that we quoted I think we've said for several calls now that we felt rates have stabilized and they have stopped going down on us.
So we wanted to report once we saw them go up.
It's actually the second quarter in a row it happened.
So I feel comfortable saying that it's more of a trend now not just a one-time occurrence and we're hopeful that it will continue in the future.
And on the marketing front we did hire a Director of Marketing this quarter and we're well underway playing out our future marketing initiatives.
And the emphasis for that is really that we are just 0.5% of our portfolio that we are configuring to our version of retail is I need some extra marketing where previously if you had a 1-megawatt tenant you're running 4 000 servers.
If you're looking for 4 000 servers of capacity in Northern Virginia you know who we are.
We didn't need to do any marketing for this.
I mean if you didn't there'll be a problem of whoever is running that.
But for this new space that's 100 to 300 kilowatts we need to do a little bit of marketing and as we're starting that process we're paralleling it with some marketing.
[Operator Instructions] And we do have a follow-up question from Emmanuel Korchman's location of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Yes Michael Bilerman.
Hossein just had a quick couple of follow-ups.
So you kept on talking about I when you're talking about the board the CEO President search.
Who on the board is working with you on the search? Well pretty much everyone on the board is working with me on the search and [indiscernible] we have a lead board member who's running that process so it's was very much a collaboration of the board and I working together.
Research Division</strong> But there's not like a subcommittee 2 or 3 individuals that are more active and vetting candidates? There's a subcommittee the 2 or 3 individuals that are more active but our board is only of 8.
Our board is only 8 people.
So everyone pretty much gets involved.
Research Division</strong> And then as you think about your role as you step into this board member and I think you were talking a little bit about you'll be open to whatever the candidate wants you to be how should we think about the commitment that you will have on the board in terms of if you decide you don't want to be a board member anymore and whether there's a certain level of non-compete that would have to be negotiated today for that time given that you still have some personal land holdings around existing DuPont Fabros centers? Well I'm very happy with my investment in DuPont Fabros and this is not a -- this isn't the first time that a cofounder and CEO wants to step aside and help the new person succeed.
So my role will be to step aside and help the new person succeed.
Fabros and DuPont Fabros the Fabros part of it is Fateh brothers.
So I still consider my name on the door and I want to be associated with the company for the very long term going forward.
I still consider this as something that Lammot and I have found and again Lammot and I will continue to be on the board for a very long time.
Research Division</strong> And then just ask one other clarification on ownership.
So the last proxy says you have about 2.25 million units that you don't have much shares left and about 1.75 million of those units are pledged or as collateral for a personal line of credit.
Is there other share ownership that's held throughout your family that would boost that stake? Or should we really think about your ownership -- I know you have some options to purchase and some potential vesting of stock but current ownership is at 2.25 million of which 1.75 million is pledged.
So can you just share with us? Yes I mean 2.25 million at $30 that's still a considerable amount of net worth.
But I mean I still consider that to be a huge amount of money.
I don't know what -- if you don't.
I certainly do.
Research Division</strong> No I do.
It's a lot of money.
And yes the family does control other shares.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then was there anything in terms of the process where a candidate was not willing or didn't want to be -- I mean was it partially driven by the fact that some candidates said "You know I don't want to be President for a little while.
I just want to be the CEO." I mean was that part of what drove it? Yes partly.
That's correct.
And we also have a follow-up question from Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was just following up on the question about your future role also Hossein.
I guess I'm curious.
It sounds like you're willing to be pretty flexible here in terms of what's best for the candidate and the company which I think we can all appreciate that position.
I guess more specifically I'm curious.
Will you have an executive position or role and a day-to-day ops role of some sort as an executive in the company? Or would you expect to be like most board members if not all the current a non-executive member of the board? I think at the moment I would expect to be a non-executive member of the board but be as active as they want me to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then my other question is a complete non-sequitur for Jeff on the balance sheet.
Jeff you've -- I'm kind of curious given sort of your commentary surrounding financing if you've thought about and talk to the rating agencies at all and sort of -- as you've kind of grown and backfilled some of the vacancy and filled up some of the developments and diversified the portfolio where do you stand with the rating agencies and what's the current thinking? Yes.
So we talk to them all the time Jordan and Moody's have us one notch below investment grade and S&amp;P a couple of notches below that.
And the 2 things that are holding us back today from being investment grade we have every credit that you would want to be investment grade net debt to EBITDA at 3.5x very good interest coverage.
The things that are holding us back are not financial statistics.
They're that we're in only 4 markets.
They like to see more geographical diversity and also that we have such high tenant concentration with our top 4 tenants being a little over 60% of our revenue.
So those are things that will take some time to solve.
We continually press that especially on the geography for an Internet-based provider like ourselves.
The geography is not as important as office buildings but again they're still kind of entrenched into thinking about things in traditional REIT fashion.
And we have another follow-up question from Emmanuel Korchman's location at Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> So I just had one other one Hossein.
I guess if you're in this non-executive capacity on the board Lammot doesn't take any comp from the company to be Chairman right now and board fees are pretty light relative to earning $3 million as a CEO I guess should we expect that you will be doing something else and you're still a young guy 47 years old would you be doing something else outside? I guess how should we think about your desire or are you effectively retiring in the career? I mean are you sending out a resume for me to -- do you want me to send a resume to you for a job? Research Division</strong> No we can make room for you as an analyst on the team.
We don't pay that well but you know.
But your last analyst didn't have an MBA.
I have one.
So I have a masters.
I would get -- I'll get better pay than that last one.
I'm joking.
Michael I don't know and frankly look I want to be as helpful as possible.
I don't have hand down another career plan but I have huge amount of dividends still coming in from the company.
I'm happy to live on that alone but I will have other things real estate lines that I'm doing.
I've been in real estate for a very long time.
And if the board decides that look we selected a new candidate we want to hire Hossein for part of the time to help I'll do that as well.
So it's up to the board and -- to decide how much of my help and the new candidate will want and I'll be as helpful as they want them to me and I haven't really thought about -- that much about the new career but I hope to have several new careers.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I think it's just from a competitive standpoint whether any of those careers would be going into the data center space and clearly I recognize the significant amount of wealth you still have in the company but it's in the form of units that are effectively -- have tax implications from selling.
I'm just trying to put all those things together because I think as an investor in the stock the other 96% of the people who own the shares they would clearly want to make sure or understand what sort of competitive potentially or not you could be involved in.
No I think it's a fair question and it's a fair question.
But at the moment my dedication is to DFT and I'd like DFT to succeed going forward and I'm committed to that.
It's -- I'm committed to DFT.
And there are no more questions at the present time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Hossein Fateh for any closing comments.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at NAREIT next week.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a nice day.
Good afternoon and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Technology's Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's Fourth Quarter 2014 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Hossein Fateh the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Foster the company's Chief Financial Officer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income and operating income as applicable are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be strictly enforced to only 2 per caller.
Should you have additional questions you may return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Hossein.
Thank you Chris and good afternoon everyone.
We have a lot to cover today so I'll jump right in.
First I want to talk about the great outcome of our succession plan.
I think you'll agree our patience and perseverance have paid off.
On February 17 Chris Eldredge will become DFT's new President and CEO the same day I'll step down from my current position but continue my commitment to DFT as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors.
In this role I will remain available to Chris to provide him any support and advice he may need.
Chris comes to DFT with a diverse and deep knowledge of the industry.
He has a proven track record of results in the data center and carrier space and possesses the experience and qualities necessary to lead this company.
Currently Chris is the Executive Vice President of Data Center Services for NTT America.
Not long ago NTT expanded its already significant data center business by acquiring RagingWire.
At NTT Chris' responsibilities were to oversee its data center service business units with over 110 megawatts of critical load and also its network business in North America.
The board and I quickly recognized that Chris possesses the unique attributes that we were looking for in a new leader.
In addition to the know-how that comes with leading a business unit of NTT America's size and scope Chris demonstrated real advantages in building a strong sales organization delivering managed hosting and co-location solutions delivering enterprise cloud services strategic business planning and his vast connectivity experience.
Chris' extensive knowledge of the carrier space made him our first choice.
Prior to NTT he held executive leadership role with Telx Broadview and Frontier.
It is Chris' diverse experience in data centers and technology his track record of results and dedication to excellence that qualifies him to immediately assume leadership of DFT.
Chris will be a strong leader for our world-class data center portfolio and first-rate team.
The board and I are very excited to have him lead DFT and usher in our next phase of growth.
I am 100% confident he'll do a great job.
Now let's turn to our results.
As you may recall in the first quarter of 2013 one of our reseller customers restructured 3 of their leases with us and with its other data center providers.
Under the restructuring this customer's accounts receivable and deferred rent converted into a note.
Since that restructuring through the end of 2014 this customer's accounts were current.
They made all their payments on their note base rent OpEx and management fees.
In January this customer informed us that they would cease making payments of base rent on their leases totaling 6.26 megawatts while they seek new sources of funding or a buyer for their business.
They did however confirm they would continue paying OpEx direct electric and management fees and quarterly amounts due under their note.
To date they have done so.
Jeff will discuss the financial implications with more detail later in the call.
While this news is unfortunate we are exploring several options to mitigate this risk and recover the funds due to us.
We have faced difficult situations in the past minimizing their impact and transforming them into an opportunity.
We will utilize the same approach towards achieving a beneficial resolution.
I want to add this customer is the only one in our portfolio of 38 customers that has this type of an issue.
Our remaining customers have strong financial metrics of which 77% are investment grade or equivalent.
Almost all of them are household names.
Now on to our great news our leasing accomplishments during and subsequent to the quarter.
During and subsequent to the quarter we signed 26 megawatts of new leases and renewals in Santa Clara and Ashburn a fantastic result.
Here's how it will distribute: 4.55 megawatts are leases for vacant space in Santa Clara Phase IIA ACC7 and ACC5; 5.7 megawatts are pre-leasing in SC1 Phase IIB; 3.4 megawatts of renewals and 3 leases at ACC4 and ACC5; 13.65 megawatts of subleasing in a tri-party agreement in ACC4 with Yahoo! This resulted in new leases of 9.1 megawatts that go into effect when Yahoo!'s lease expires in 2017 and '18 and 3.4 megawatts of additional subleasing in a tri-party agreement in ACC5.
These leases were scheduled to terminate in 2015 and '16.
The new leases will begin when the current leases end and will expire in 2024.
Before I discuss the details of these leases I want to briefly discuss the demand factors driving these results.
It is no understatement to say that the Internet has enabled us to revolutionize the way we conduct business communicate socialize and live our day-to-day lives.
I am constantly amazed at all the innovative products which boost our efficiency.
Facebook in their recent earnings call indicated that users view more than 3 billion videos daily up from 1 billion videos in June of last year.
These videos are all stored in a data center.
We continue to see increased adoption of the cloud in all its forms and more and more people incorporate the cloud environment into their businesses and personal life.
It creates demand that lives in a data center.
We are in a sense a provider of real estate to the cloud.
DFT will continue to benefit as the cloud grows.
Microsoft in their recent earnings call stated that their cloud and consumer devices are crucial to their business success.
Their cloud products grew 114% year-over-year and they have had 6 consecutive quarters of triple-digit growth.
Organic growth has served us well because we provide our customers with the most efficient and reliable solution for their data center requirements.
We have formed relationships with new customers benefiting our facility adding 2 new logos to the portfolio since year-end.
Now let me give you some specific detail on our recent leases.
In Santa Clara we signed 2 leases at SC1 Phase IIA with existing customers.
These were disclosed on our last earnings call.
Each lease was for 1.14 megawatts of critical load which fully leased Phase IIA.
In Phase IIB we signed 2 leases -- 2 pre-leases for a total of 5.68 megawatts of critical load one of which was for 4.55 megawatts which was disclosed on our last call.
Currently Phase IIB is 63% pre-leased on a critical load and 62% pre-leased on a square footage.
Demand for the remaining space in Santa Clara is robust and we anticipate this space to be 100% leased shortly after it opens in May.
Now on to Ashburn.
While we are laser-focused on leasing up our available inventory we are also diligently renewing expiring leases or re-leasing space.
During the fourth quarter we renewed one lease in ACC5 with Sanofi Aventis.
This extended their remaining lease term by 6 years.
This lease is for 1.14 megawatts.
It will now expire in November 2021 with an immediate 6.1% increase in GAAP base rent.
The cash base rent will decline 3.7% starting in November 2015.
Subsequent to the fourth quarter we signed 2 leases totaling 2.2 megawatts in Ashburn.
One is for 200 kilowatts in ACC5 which marks our first mini-wholesale deal.
This customer is a veteran Internet-based company.
We are happy to welcome them to the portfolio and excited to have them realize the benefits of being in a DFT wholesale data center.
This lease makes ACC5 99% leased on a critical load and square footage basis.
The second lease is for 2 megawatts in ACC7 and is with a new cloud-based Internet company serving enterprise customers.
The new lease makes ACC7 Phase I 46% leased on a critical load and 37% leased on a square footage basis.
Given the demand in Ashburn our current and historical leasing performance we're commencing development of the second phase of ACC7.
This will add an additional 8.9 megawatts of critical load within 6 computer rooms.
We anticipate delivering Phase II in the fourth quarter of this year.
Since quarter-end we renewed 2 leases with one customer in ACC4.
These leases were originally scheduled to expire in 2017 and 2019 and have been extended 7 years.
We will immediately recognize an increase in GAAP rent of 9.1%.
Upon expiration of the lease the cash base rents will decline just 1.6% as compared to current rents.
As you may recall we successfully entered into a tri-party agreement with Yahoo! and another one of our existing customers for 13.65 megawatts in ACC4.
Building off that success we did it again.
We facilitated a second tri-party agreement with another customer in ACC5.
This customer has 4.55 megawatts of space scheduled to expire in 2015 and 2016 that they no longer needed.
One of our growing cloud customers who is in 2 of our other markets needed additional space in ACC5.
That customer was able to sublease 3.41 megawatts of space and we entered into a new lease with them that expires in 2024.
The cash and GAAP rents will average -- the cash and GAAP rents will be an average of 15.8% and 0.9% lower respectively upon the termination of the original leases.
The remaining 1.14 megawatt is scheduled to expire in June of 2015 and we're currently marketing this space.
Before I end the leasing update I want to briefly discuss Yahoo!'s ACC2 lease.
They have informed us that they are able to move out of the space within 30-day notice.
This information is very beneficial as it alleviates the uncertainty for potential customers who needed definitive timeline for their deployment.
Now we can more aggressively market the space and are optimistic as to our leasing prospects.
All in all we are very pleased with the level of leasing and subleasing achieved in 2014.
We signed 14 new leases totaling 30.82 megawatts of critical load.
This will generate approximately $35 million of annualized GAAP base rent.
Our business is doing very well.
Demand drivers and our proven record of capturing the growth of the Internet and cloud points to our continued success.
Excluding ACC7 Phase I which was put into service last summer our operating portfolio is 96% leased on a critical load and 97% leased on a square footage basis.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jeff to discuss our financial performance.
Thank you Hossein.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to cover 4 main topics today: our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results the capital markets and development spend update 2015 guidance and our dividends.
Normalized FFO for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $0.58 per share compared to $0.57 per share for the year-ago quarter.
Normalized FFO for the year was $2.39 per share compared to $1.96 per share in 2013.
Included in the quarterly and annual figures for 2014 is a provision for bad debt of $0.05 per share which I will explain in greater detail.
As Hossein previously mentioned one of our customers Net Data Centers formerly known as net2EZ informed us in early January that they would withhold base rent under our leases until they are sold or new financing sources are secured.
In late January we obtained current financial information from Net and reviewed its financial position in cash flows.
We determined that we needed to further reserve the note receivable and the straight-line receivable.
We increased the note reserve by $0.03 per share and increased the straight-line receivable reserve by $0.02 per share.
This had the impact of lowering normalized FFO by $0.05 per share and AFFO by $0.03 per share.
As a reminder straight-line does not impact AFFO.
As of today our remaining unreserved receivables from Net are $7.2 million of which $1.4 million is for the note receivable and $5.8 million is for straight-line receivables primarily from their ACC4 lease.
Based on our review of Net's current financial information and in discussion with its management we believe that we will be able to collect these amounts.
In 2015 we will continue our practice of not recognizing interest income on the note and instead using these payments to increase our reserve.
If Net makes all note payments that are due in 2015 the note will be fully reserved at year-end.
We've been on the cash method for revenue recognition on the Net leases since the restructuring.
Therefore when base rent is not paid revenue will not be recognized.
I will discuss the impact of this on our 2015 guidance in a few minutes.
Excluding the bad debt charge our normalized FFO increased $0.06 per share or 11% quarter-over-quarter and for the year increased $0.48 per share or 24% versus 2013.
The quarterly increase was primarily due to higher operating income and the year increase was primarily due to higher operating income and lower interest expense.
Our AFFO for the quarter was $0.62 per share compared to $0.56 per share for the same quarter of 2013.
Excluding the $0.02 per share of bad debt impact AFFO increased $0.08 per share or 14%.
For the year AFFO is $2.50 per share compared to $1.87 per share in 2013.
Excluding the bad debt impact AFFO increased $0.65 per share or 35% year-over-year.
Quarterly revenues were $108 million.
This is an increase of $8.5 million or 9% from last year's quarter.
For the full year 2014 revenues were $417.6 million.
This is an increase of $42.5 million or 11% over the prior year.
The increase in revenues was primarily from new leases commencing.
Cash generated from operations in 2014 was $244.5 million an increase of $50.7 million or 26% from 2013.
After paying our common and preferred dividends we generated $101.9 million of cash in 2014 which was used to partially fund the development of ACC7 Phase I Santa Clara Phase II and Phase I of CH2.
As Hossein mentioned we received confirmed date on Yahoo!'s move-out of their 2 rooms at ACC2.
We are actively marketing this space and our goal is to re-lease it before the lease expires on September 30 2015.
Given Yahoo!'s current ending base rent and the recent sublease with our ACC4 space we continue to predict an approximate 20% decline in cash base rent for this space.
If the space becomes vacant at the end of the lease on September 30 2015 normalized FFO would decline by $0.05 per share per quarter.
This leads me to our capital markets update.
During 2014 we did not purchase any shares under our stock repurchase program which expired on December 31.
Our board authorized a new stock repurchase program for 2015 of up to $120 million.
As always we will continue to allocate our capital resources to maximize shareholder value.
Next an update on our development and borrowing forecast.
As disclosed in our development table we spent $100 million on SC1 Phase IIB as of the end of 2014.
To complete the build-out we anticipate an additional $12 million bringing the total cost to around $112 million in line with our assumption.
We expect to deliver this space in May of which 63% is already pre-leased.
This brings me to Phase II.
Our current cost projections to place Phase I into service to build the entire shelf and install all underground conduits is about $200 million of which approximately $117 million has been spent at quarter-end.
We still estimate the cost per megawatt to be $10 million to $11 million for the entire building and we expect to deliver 7.1 megawatts for the first phase in August of 2015.
Our board has approved the development of ACC7 Phase II which is 8.9 megawatts.
We expect this development to be placed into service in the fourth quarter of 2015 and anticipate spending an additional $40 million to $45 million of cash on Phase II.
To date we've drawn $95 million on our $550 million line of which $35 million was drawn since year-end.
We anticipate growing these borrowings to about $150 million by mid-2015.
We will seek permanent financing for the line balance likely in the second quarter of 2015.
Our balance sheet remains strong and provides enough capacity to continually fund our growth for the next few years without the need to issue any equity.
I now would like to discuss our full year 2015 guidance.
Our first quarter 2015 normalized FFO guidance range is $0.56 to $0.60 per share.
The full year 2015 normalized FFO guidance range is $2.27 to $2.47 per share.
The midpoint of $2.37 per share is equivalent to the $2.53 per share discussed on the last call less the $0.16 per share of revenue that was anticipated to be received from Net Data Centers in 2015.
The reason for the removal of this revenue is that as I previously stated we are on the cash method of revenue recognition for Net Data Centers and we are uncertain as to how long it will take for Net Data Centers to work through their process to sell assets or find new financing.
We do not believe that this is a permanent removal from our earnings nor do we believe that taking the space back from Net is the most likely outcome.
In fact in analyzing Net Data Centers' financials we believe that we can realize as much as $0.11 per share of FFO from their customers if we take back the space in a workout scenario.
Given that we believe Net has more attractive options than giving back the space and these options of recovery could be greater than $0.11 of FFO per share.
Once the situation is resolved we will update our guidance accordingly.
The assumptions for 2015's guidance are disclosed in today's earnings release.
Here are some of the highlights.
We anticipate a charge of $0.07 per share for Hossein's severance and this is added back to FFO to calculate normalized FFO.
As noted both the lower -- both the higher and lower end of the range assume no revenue from Net Data Centers.
Contractual revenue from this customer is $0.16 per share in 2015 and any revenue received from this customer in 2015 will increase our normalized FFO and AFFO guidance.
The lower end of the range assumes $0.03 per share from spec leasing.
The lower end of the range also assumes that ACC2 is not re-leased in 2015.
Current revenue at this data center is $0.05 per share per quarter.
The high end of the range assumes $0.23 per share is generated from a combination of new leases the re-lease of ACC2 at a 20% decline in cash base rent and the realization of some revenues from Net Data Centers.
Revenues are forecast to be $420 million to $445 million with Net Data Centers new leases and the re-lease of ACC2 being the key factors to achieving the high end of the range.
The high end of the range implies 7% growth over 2014.
EBITDA margins will be about 60% and our cash flow after common dividend and before development spend is forecasted to be about $75 million after taking into account the impact of Net Data Centers and the 20% increase in our common dividend.
Interest expense is forecasted to increase about $0.08 per share over 2014 due to increased debt that is being used to fund data center development the anticipated conversion of our line of credit to permanent financing midyear 2015 and lower capitalized interest.
We are also giving AFFO per share guidance for the first time.
Several of you requested this in our one-on-one meetings and we aim to please.
Our initial AFFO guidance is $0.59 to $0.63 per share for the first quarter and $2.40 to $2.60 per share for the entire year.
The guidance is being negatively impacted by $0.14 per share for Net Data Centers' change in AFFO year-over-year.
You will see that we continue to have AFFO higher than normalized FFO due to the anticipation that cash base rent will be $0.15 higher than GAAP base rent in 2015.
Most of the reconciling items between AFFO and FFO are easy to predict with the exception of capitalized leasing commissions.
This line item is lumpy for us as the bulk of our commissions are paid to brokers but most of our customers do not use brokers.
Another item to highlight in the AFFO calculation is improvements to real estate which represents CapEx on our operating data centers.
This is predicted to be about $5 million in 2015 and about 75% is expected to be recovered under our CapEx recovery costs in our triple-net leases.
The unrecovered portion is primarily due to roof replacements and enhancements.
For comparison purposes we spent a little less than $2 million in 2014 and 97% of that is eligible to be recovered under our leases.
Last but not least let's discuss the dividend.
On January 15 we paid our quarterly dividend of $0.42 per share a 20% increase from the previous quarter.
Over the past 11 quarters we have increased the dividend 5x with an impressive 250% increase over that period.
With that let me turn it back over to Hossein who will provide some final comments.
Thank you Jeff.
I would like to provide some final thoughts before we open it up for questions.
Firstly we are very excited to have Chris onboard as our new President and CEO.
We look forward to his leadership ushering in DFT's next chapter of success.
I will be here as much as he needs me.
He joins us at a great time.
Demand for data center space is strong and growing in multiple sectors.
DFT's strong customer base is expanding with new logos and pricing in the wholesale market has stabilized.
In 3 of our 4 markets the rents are trending upwards.
Lastly I want to thank all the employees of DFT.
Working with you as CEO and colleague has been singularly the greatest experience of my professional life.
You have provided not only the company but me with your tireless contributions.
You have made this company a leader in the industry.
Thank you.
With that let's go to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut at Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> Jeff I guess if I only get one question here and I'll circle back I'd like to maybe...
You can have 2 Jonathan we're generous.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess if I had 2 questions the first question would be about the renewals and the new sublease.
And I see that the renewal rates here cash rent down almost 4% in one but 1.5% in the other.
I just wanted to understand maybe if you could give us some perspective on the term of the original leases so we get a sense as to what's really rolling off how many years back in terms of those rents -- rentals.
And in terms of the new sublease the rents are going down a little bit more there.
And so I'm just wondering if that's a conversion to a super wholesale.
And then I do have one more.
Okay.
Yes on the renewals.
First let's talk about the renewal that occurred subsequent to the fourth quarter.
That was at ACC4 and the cash base rent would be 1.6% lower than the original lease.
That customer started with us when ACC4 opened in 2007 so that was about a 10-year lease.
So that's -- the lease started 10 years ago.
The other renewal was at ACC5 where the cash base rent will be 3.7% lower and that lease was signed about 5 years ago at the height of the market in the 2009 2010 time frame.
So you kind of have to look at when these leases were signed when you think about the cash base rent and how it's declining.
Anytime we get a renewal we will do better on the cash rate rent or on the cash base rents mark-to-market because that customer wants to stay in the data center and they're incented not to incur the cost of moving to go somewhere else.
So we have a little bit more leverage in those situations.
And what was your other question I'm sorry? He asked on the new customer in ACC5 whether it was a super wholesale and the answer is no.
The new customer is not a super wholesale and I previously quoted market rents for wholesale being 100 to 108 and that new customer is very much in line with market rents.
And Jonathan one other point to note is that our original leases in ACC5 had a large ramp associated with those because that customer was building in their servers.
This new customer is an established customer who is already in ACC5 and expanding so the new lease has no ramp in it.
So the market -- so that's why the cash base rents are pretty much flat.
GAAP base rents are pretty much flat.
Exactly GAAP base rents are pretty flat.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And Jeff I just wanted to follow up on the guidance.
From the net2EZ whatever their new name is you talked about $0.16 of revenue that you're not including in the outlook.
And I'm wondering if that's the base rent number or if that's base rent plus expected recoveries given that the company expects to pay their OpEx? Yes it's a good question Jonathan.
$0.12 of the $0.16 is from base rent and the other $0.04 is from operating expenses and management fees.
So if they pay the OpEx and management fees which they have done for January and February we have a little bit of -- we have $0.04 of upside to the guidance.
So if they make the March payment that will be $0.01 right there.
Your next question comes from Jordan Sadler at KeyBanc Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> Just a question regarding this customer Net Data Centers.
I'm I guess struggling to understand what the nature of their cessation of rent is.
And it seems to me that in 2013 you restructured your lease with them.
Can you may be shed some light on why a data center operator a co-location type player might be struggling in this environment? That's a good question Jordan.
Two years ago we saw some rent compression in the wholesale space of the data centers.
We now believe that has stabilized and is now ticking upwards.
That rent compression has now dribbled down to the retail space.
And we believe 90% of their issue is the rent compression that is coming down to the retail part of the business.
Research Division</strong> And I guess looking at -- do you know what the -- at their financials and you guys have had a look do you know what their total annualized rent or revenue looks like relative to the $13 million or so in rent that they pay you? Yes we've looked at the financials in detail but we are under an NDA and we're not able to disclose that type of information.
I think what Jeff disclosed in his prepared remarks was that in a scenario that we would own them as we see their financials and we don't think this is going to happen because we see a -- we see value in that company in parts of their business that gives us very much optimism and this can be worked out.
But in an unlikely scenario that we would own them we see $0.11 of the $0.16 being recovered.
So this portion that we've taken out is really a time to do the workout.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up what is the -- what do the prospects look like for ACC2? And maybe just shed some light on the decision to commence ACC7 Phase II when you've still got the ACC2 overhang in front of you imminently? That's a good question.
It's a little bit in different markets.
ACC2 is very much a super wholesale space and ACC7 can work for both.
And we feel that our demand is very very strong.
I mean just look at what we've done in 2014 we leased 30 megawatts of critical load.
I mean that is unbelievable.
When we went public in 2007 our entire portfolio was just over 80 megawatts.
So 30 megawatts over 30 megawatts in 1 year is a huge amount of leasing and we very much see that continuing in both the wholesale and super wholesale space.
Yes.
We opened up ACC7 Phase I in September and we've already leased 5.5 megawatts.
There's only 6.4 megawatts to go.
And by the time we open Phase II we expect that will be gone.
Research Division</strong> And -- but the prospects for ACC2? I mean we see -- we're talking to a couple of tenants and Yahoo! as I mentioned has told us of that with 30 days notice they recently told us that they can completely be out of the space.
So we have good prospects that we're talking to and we have really until now to September to lease it.
So we're cautiously very optimistic that it's going to be leased.
The next question comes from Emmanuel Korchman at Citi.
Research Division</strong> So maybe you can answer a question about sort of Chris coming onboard and if you could just -- I'm sure we'll be asking the same question when he's on but do you see any shifts away from development as the primary growth driver given that his background hasn't included a lot of ground-up development and has included more acquisition activity? I think what I see Chris' strength is areas that we could use help in and this is why we took a long time very deliberately choosing a person that could be very additive to our bench here.
So he has strengths in acquisition.
He also has a huge amount of strength in diversifying our product line in building a terrific sales organization.
I think he'll be very additive in multiple ways to our current bench.
But part of the DNA of the company is development so whether we do both or just one is really the question and we can talk about it after he's had a chance to evaluate the company.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if we just go back to Net Data Centers for another second.
Have they gone back to other landlords with similar restructuring plans or similar nonpayment rent plans? Or how is that differing between what they're doing with you and what they're doing with other landlords? Yes Manny.
Similar to last time they still have 2 other landlords and they have done the same with those 2 landlords.
Research Division</strong> And everyone's comfortable with just the wait-and-see and will let this thing keep going? Well we haven't talked to the 2 other landlords.
We're comfortable because we take a look at the financials and we see value and we see a way that this company can succeed.
But again we haven't talked -- spoke to the other 2 landlords.
Research Division</strong> Would that impact you if they're not comfortable with the same scenario? Not really.
I mean we're really in a driver seat here.
The DNA of DFT has originally been very much in -- we started this company in workout situations.
So we have a -- we're very comfortable with that area of business.
Now with this scenario because of the size of our notes we are the largest creditor of Net Data Centers.
So with that position we're actually very comfortable where we are.
The next question comes from Jonathan Atkin at RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I was interested in understanding a little bit about Chicago 2.
And at one point could we think about maybe some pre-leasing do you have a salesperson currently engaged in that market or is it just too early? And then I was interested in just from a broader standpoint telco data center assets being on the market and I know this probably doesn't fit your model but I wonder if you have any view about the attractiveness of those data center assets and whether there's any potential growth associated with them? Well to address Chicago as you have seen in our history Jonathan we have a significant amount of growth from organic customers.
And in Chicago our one data center is on one side of Busse road right across the street on Busse road is our second data center and under the road there's a fiber optic connection that we own.
So we see a huge amount of growth from current CH1 to CH2 and that's the leasing activity we now see and we're doing that right now with a centralized sales staff in Northern Virginia.
Now I expect over the longer term period especially with mini-wholesale building up our sales organization and of course Chris will have a lot of input to do with that.
But the -- so we see pre-leasing being done with the existing CH1 customers.
We're also touring new customers through CH2 right now new logos that we have not toured before.
We don't really need a local person it's an hour-and-a-half flight to get there and the infrastructure is very similar to ACC7.
So I'm not sure what's the second -- is your second question Jonathan? LLC Research Division</strong> The telco.
Oh the telco assets.
Yes on the telco assets it's not now -- not quite the area that we are specialized in and partly we also for example Lattice had this sale this year.
The -- what DFT does very well and we've been laser-focused on this has been the wholesale market.
And to create these very large data centers that have when fully leased average very low operating expenses and long-term these are very good real estate.
LLC Research Division</strong> No I understand this doesn't fit your model at all.
But just as somebody who's in the industry if you had any kind of comments from an intelligent third-party perspective about those types of assets and then whether there would be any growth associated with them.
I think on the inter-connectivity side potentially but as far as the work horses that drive cloud traffic I think they're too small for those work horses.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then finally interested in just some enterprises do build their own data centers.
Apple's recently in the news about a project in Arizona and then software companies and other companies have to varying degrees done self-builds or continue to do that.
And I just wondered philosophically whether this changes any of your views about the types of customers that you are looking to do super wholesale lease with going forward? We have a terrific relationship with all our super wholesale customers.
They do their own but they like our product as well.
And if you think about it mathematically it really does make sense for them to do both in that when you have a 36 or a 40-megawatt data center even these very large customers even if they take 8 megawatts a year it takes them 4 years to fill up a 40-megawatt data center.
With us in the case of ACC6 within 1 year we put together Facebook 1 other large wholesale customer and Rackspace and a couple of super -- I'm sorry a couple of -- we've got 3 super wholesale customers and a couple of wholesale customers and within 1 year we're able to deliver at a very low operating expense.
Even by themselves those very large customers don't fill up 40 megawatts within 2 years.
So -- and also the other aspect of it is geographical areas.
If you want to get into Santa Clara and you need that space quickly it's going to take a few years to get to the site get it under contract and build a 36-megawatt data center.
So a lot of it is also just-in-time inventory where they need expansion space in a certain area and they don't have the resources to do it themselves.
The third aspect of it is what we understand from our -- 1 of our super wholesale customers I believe it's #2 they told us frankly at the current super wholesale rate the interest rate they internally charge themselves to their capital and the cost that we're offering it to them we're about par as to what it cost them at and what it cost us with more flexibility on our end.
Next question comes from David Rodgers at Baird.
Research Division</strong> Jeff could you remind for I guess ACC2 Phase I and SC1 Phase IIB what the ramp-up schedule in terms of move-ins is throughout the year? Did you mean ACC7 Phase I? Research Division</strong> Yes if I didn't say that -- I'm sorry.
Yes that and SC1 as well.
Yes.
SC1 Phase IIB we anticipate opening it in May and the pre-leases that we signed would commence at that time.
And SC1 Phase -- ACC7 Phase I 3.5 megawatts is already commenced the 2 megawatts that we just signed since quarter end that we just signed in January that'll -- we predict -- project that to commence in the second quarter of this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess going back with regard to Net Data Centers it sounds like you're pretty confident in recovering upwards of $0.15 out of that $0.16 that you're talking about if I understand that right.
So I guess what gives you the confidence that you can get that? And I guess maybe the other question would be if you had to go into a lease restructuring scenario or if you've thought about that how do net rents compare to kind of where market would be for their space today? Yes let me just clarify one thing and then I'll turn it over to Hossein for the rest.
I said $0.11 of the $0.16.
So...
Research Division</strong> I was thinking of the other $0.04 on OpEx.
Oh it's 2 totally different scenarios.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Yes.
And John -- and David your second part of the question is looking at their market rents.
And their market rents are very competitive in the markets that they are.
Our financial review at this point has been to the level of looking at the aggregate rent per market per data center that they are in.
Our understanding of their market rents versus other market's rent has been historically the knowledge of knowing them for several years.
But we have not seen -- we don't know yet the detail of their mark-to-market.
But historically they are very competitive.
I mean they're in the business of undercutting Equinix undercutting Lattices and getting deals.
So I believe they're very competitive.
Yes.
Their historic trend rate is single digits for a year and it's pretty low compared to other retail providers we've looked at over the past years.
And the good news is also Chris' expertise is very much in this area.
So he's going to be very helpful for us in this to -- as far as if that came about for us to get into that retail space.
Research Division</strong> And the rent they pay you is close to market you're saying? Well the rent they pay us was signed several years ago and today it's what I would call above market.
The next question comes from Ross Nussbaum at UBS.
Research Division</strong> Let me start with a different topic first.
If I think about ACC7 Phase II which the board just authorized you to go forward with the development of why does it makes sense to start a new development in Ashburn when you haven't fully leased I guess the first phase? You've got the Yahoo!'s space.
You've got net2EZ to deal with.
Why not wait until you've got Yahoo! in particular and the rest of the existing development space leased until you begin the next phase? The simple reason is we see demand to fill all of them.
And that the Yahoo! is also as I mentioned earlier there was another question the super wholesale space the ACC7 can work for mini-wholesale wholesale and super wholesale.
The amount of demand we see in our pipeline is leasing all of this.
And we don't want to be in a situation -- I mean earlier in the year that we had a 10-megawatt customer we lost because we didn't have the space for it.
And Yahoo! at that time wouldn't move out and we lost that customer.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
The second question I have is back to our friends at Net Data Centers so Jeff if I'm understanding correctly if you guys think in a workout situation that the recovery is call it $0.11 versus the $0.16 of annualized rent plus reimbursement you'd be receiving.
It implies there's 1 of 2 outcomes here.
Outcome one is they're in default you kick them out you keep their customers and you start booking $0.11 a year instead of $0.16.
And then scenario two is as you said the rent's above market and it doesn't look like the operating business is supporting the rent you're going to have to cut the rent from at least $0.16 annually down to something under $0.11 so this company actually has some free cash flow? Yes those are -- I'd call both of those are 2 scenarios.
We don't believe those will be the ultimate outcome.
We see more of the ultimate outcome that they've got some value in that business that they can extract through the process of looking to sell the company or selling assets.
And by extracting that value they'll then be able to go back to paying full rents and paying the note and everything like that.
So we're more focused on that scenario than the 2 you just mentioned.
But the 2 you just mentioned are equivalent to the $0.11 we just talked about.
Research Division</strong> And I mean reasonably speaking time frame I mean I know you guys took it out of the guidance for the full year but are you actually expecting this "workout" to actually take the full year? That's part A.
And then part B your earnings release said that the high end of the guidance includes nothing.
But I thought I heard you say a comment that if you get something from them on the reimbursement side that's actually -- that is in the guidance? So which is it? Is there nothing in the guidance at all in the high end or is there something? I'm sorry for that confusion Ross.
I can see how you got there.
The high end of the guidance does not have Net Data Centers in it for any of the $0.16.
What I was trying to state is there's 3 different ways we can achieve the high end of the guidance is through new leases through re-leasing ACC2 and if we get anything from that data centers that would also help achieve the high end of the guidance.
I mean if we had a home run in all 3 of those areas we could exceed the high end of the guidance but that's not what we're predicting at this time.
And as far as timing is concerned Ross we want to be conservative in our timing and that's why we took it out of this year.
But obviously we're very focused on this issue and we're not going to let it go until it's sorted out.
So -- but because it's a little bit out of our control we took it out of this year.
Do I feel better that it's going to be sorted out sooner than the whole year? Of course I do.
Our next question comes from Colby Synesael at Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
Not on net2EZ.
So I guess the first one is we've obviously seen with some of the more recent renewals that the cash rent continues to come down.
What vintage do we have to get to before we could actually start to see when you guys have those situations where the cash rent actually starts to go up? I mean so is it may be for example in 2017 for 5-year deals for deals done in 2012.
I'm just trying to get a sense of when we could actually start seeing not just the GAAP rent but the cash rent going up as well? And then the second question just very quickly I know you guys had talked about from time-to-time potentially getting into new markets.
What's the likelihood with everything on your plate thus far in terms of what you can see that you guys could be getting into new markets this year? Okay Colby it's Jeff I'll take the first one.
It -- the 2017 could be a good guess for 5-year leases that were signed in 2012.
But we're also seeing just rents continue to trend up.
I think we reported on the last call that the rents for the leases we signed in -- since June 30 were higher than the ones we signed before June 30 and we're seeing that again.
The rent that we signed in Q3 that we reported last time were $93 a kW a month that's Q3 $103 kW a month.
Another stat is our rent average per year on all 14 leases were about $95 a kW a month again that's Q3 $103 a month.
So as that trend continues that will also help turn this negative cash mark-to-market around sooner.
As it won't just be a vintage issue it'll be raising every vintage for what's better.
Yes.
And to dovetail on that the other part of it is it also depends the original tenant that was in there assuming they don't renew and a lot of times they do how much of a ramp they had 5 7 or 10 years ago and that varies in between what industry they were in.
But if that answers your -- 1 of your questions I'll go to the new market question.
Of course we're now on the total portfolio excluding ACC7 95% or so fully leased.
So I think it's time for management to think about other markets potentially in the U.S.
and we're looking at other markets.
Of course that will largely also depend on Chris and what some of his thoughts are and I'm sure he would be coming in strategically evaluating the markets we're in strategically evaluating our customer base and then coming to the board which I will be a member of and making a recommendation.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the odds are pretty high that you're going to get into another market this year? I'm just trying to get a sense or you think that's really just -- you can't answer question till Chris comes on board? I really can't answer that question right now.
I think I'd like to wait and answer it maybe with Chris on the line.
But rationally you would -- we'd want to look at another market but I'm not going to say we're going to be jumping into another market.
Yes we've done some work on other markets but it's going to depend on where Chris prioritizes things if that's one of his top priorities or not.
If we were to make that a top priority there's a chance that could be done this year.
Also -- it also I mean some of my recommendations to him would also be we would prefer to have a pre-lease in that market and if we had a pre-lease in a certain market that would minimize the risk.
I would think that would make it a lot easier.
The next question comes from Omotayo Okusanya at Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus on guidance a little bit more.
I think I understand what's going into the low end but on the high end of guidance could you talk a little bit about what lease up assumptions you're making about the data centers that are opening in 2015? And what assumptions you're making about the Yahoo! space? Okay.
For the data centers that are opening in 2015 SC1 Phase IIB we believe will lease up very quickly after it opens.
It's already 63% leased.
So we would expect that to lease up quickly after it opens in May.
Research Division</strong> You're building a 100% then? Yes.
Not on May 1 but lease up will ramp up after that.
63% of it starts to generate revenue on May 1 and then after that it will lease up.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
For CH2 Phase I again looking at an August opening so it doesn't give you too many months to generate rent.
But if we're able to do like the first CH1 we usually lease up 1-megawatt a month so by year end it could be close to fully leased.
For ACC7 Phase II it's going to open up late in the fourth quarter.
So it really is going to depend on if we lease up ACC7 Phase I like we expect maybe we'll get some pre-leases for Phase II from existing customers.
That's too far out to predict though.
Research Division</strong> So do you have a bagel in 2015 for ACC7 Phase II then? Do we have a what you say? Research Division</strong> For ACC7 Phase II you have 0 leasing in your 2015 numbers on the high end? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the assumption around ACC2 on the Yahoo! space? For the low end it's out.
For the high end we have it releasing at a 20% cash rent decline.
So today it generates $0.05 of GAAP revenue per quarter so we have it generating 20% less or $0.04 GAAP revenue per quarter in the high end.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then my second question the severance expense that's built into the numbers for '15 how much of that is just the acceleration of divesting versus how much of that is actually an actual severance payment check? Of the $0.07 almost 8 I'd say but 85% is acceleration of the equity and the remaining 15% is a cash severance payment.
The next question comes from Young Ku at Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just want to go back rather quickly to Net Data Center.
If I understand it correctly at the minimum it sounds like you'll be able to recover $0.04 per share once they pay the operating expense and other charges.
Was there a reason why you reduced the guidance by full $0.16? That's just our conservative nature.
I mean we kind of like to set the bottom end of the range at something we know we're going to hit.
And since they've already had issue with the base rent we just were overly conservative and took it out -- took the entire thing out.
We'll add back $0.01 every quarter if they continue to make payments.
LLC Research Division</strong> But based on your kind of review of the financials do you feel pretty comfortable that they'll be able to cover their expense portion at least? Yes.
So looking at their financials we believe they can pay the operating expenses the management fee and the note payments this year.
And they've told all of their landlords that they're going to continue doing that while they go through their strategic options.
And just now at the beginning of this month they did make the payment for that OpEx and management fees and electricity and don't also forget that they have customers that they have to serve.
So really it serves their interest to make sure their business survives and keeps the value there.
So for the survival of their own business and making sure they get the most value out they don't want to lose customers of their own.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And Hossein you said that you're trying to be conservative thinking that saying that it could be a prospect that takes longer than 1 year.
But at what point do you kind of pull the plug on this situation? And just try to take on their tenants instead of trying to wait for the restructuring? Well I think look in legally I always as a landlord believe to always preserve our rights.
So legally we preserve our rights very much.
But we have -- I don't think it's a situation right now that is but I also believe amicably to work things out with them.
We've known the -- this customer for a very long time.
And I'm highly confident that we'll work it out.
It's -- I see value in their business and they're going to want to extract that the value.
So I don't think it's ever going to be a pull-the-plug situation.
The next question comes from Matthew Heinz at Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> First question just around guidance.
It seems like the 60% EBITDA margin guidance you gave on the call is quite a bit lower than the run rate you've seen in recent years.
I'm just wondering if some of that may be related to the severance and the Net Data Centers issue or are there some new investments you're expecting to kind of flow through the P&amp;L this year? Yes it's not really the severance.
It's all the Net Data Centers.
By putting a 0 revenue in for those that lowers the EBITDA margin.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow up I was wondering if you could provide some details around the mini-wholesale lease to book this quarter? Just wondering if -- how the pipeline is looking for that product overall? And this customer specifically was there any association with Open-IX connectivity initiative and just were there any kind of unique connectivity requirements for that customer? I mean they did want to be close to Open-IX and connect to it but I don't think that really drove it.
This is a veteran Internet company we all know the name of obviously I can't say it.
But as far as our data centers work very very well for electric and mechanical.
Our data centers are flexible especially ACC7 for this type of customer.
We are very excited about Chris joining us because he will certainly put his own spin on this mini-wholesale.
My recommendations are such to get into that space for ACC7.
We've talked with him about it.
He thinks as he's looking at right now it makes sense.
But it's really that customer that's at 100 to 500 kilowatts that's the range and this customer is right in the middle of that.
So it is we -- I mean at this time we've literally only tipped our toes into it but we do see a market here which some of the private companies RagingWire Lattice's are in and that's our currently my recommendation of focus.
But obviously Chris will have to want to put his own spin on to it especially with relative to the amount of services we offer.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one more follow-up on the reserve accounting if you don't mind.
Just wondering what the quarterly amount of interest is on the note on the note receivable that you plan to apply to your reserve again in credit? I think it's about $300 000 a quarter.
Let me just check here.
No I'm giving you interest and principal.
They make principal payments also.
But total payment in the quarter is about $350 000 of which about $150 000 to $160 000 is interest.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> So okay so you're going to apply the entire the principal and interest against the balance? Yes principal clearly goes against the balance and we're not applying it the balance on net2EZ's books they still owe us everything.
But on our books we take a reserve when we get the interest.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess what I'm getting at is could there be any additional write-offs of that reserve? Do you expect any additional write-offs of that reserve throughout the year? I mean obviously if they into default but would there be any other scenario where you would have a write-off of those reserves? We don't anticipate any.
Looking at their financials they definitely have the wherewithal to continue making the note payments.
And if they do so the note's fully reserved at year end.
What brought that -- so that's $5.8 million of straight line most of it is in ACC4 and that looks like a very healthy lease for them.
So we expect that lease would continue.
The next question comes from Bill Crow at Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Any other clients tenants on your watch list right now from a financial perspective? I heard that statistics earlier but I just want to make sure there's nobody else out there that you're kind of watching.
No absolutely not.
And I mentioned that on our prepared remarks.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Hossein you talked about the -- some of the weakness you had seen in super wholesale now moving into retail.
So if your portfolio was different if you were much more retail-focused as opposed to the wholesale-focused would you be more concerned than for the next couple of years fundamentally? Yes I would be if I was more retail-focused.
But on the wholesale space I feel like we've already swallowed up lumps and are now trending upwards.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally and I may have the time line wrong a little bit here but it seems to me you guys look out speculative leasing from your guidance a couple of years ago and you've it added back.
And you've -- and that's despite the fact your occupancy is essentially full.
The reason to include the speculative leasing in the low end of the guidance? No you're correct in all your statements there Bill.
This is Jeff.
The $0.03 we added in it gives -- states our confidence in SC1 Phase IIB.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Jonathan Sadler of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Jordan Sadler.
So on Net Data Centers I'm curious what's the utilization currently? Well it depends by which market.
Research Division</strong> I mean in your -- relative to your exposure.
So you have -- they have 6.3 megawatts 6.26 megawatts of critical load.
Where are they pulling? Oh Power-wise? Research Division</strong> Yes.
They would never be someone that would pull full power.
It's -- with them its more space...
Research Division</strong> Well okay so what do they have leased? I guess would be -- committed under lease? Yes I don't have that by footage.
They lease cabinets and stuff so I haven't been able to convert that by footage but just looking at their space they don't have a lot of extra space at least in ACC4 and ACC5.
They do have space still available on VA3 in New Jersey.
Yes.
And if you look at it VA3 it actually works well for them over the long term because it's lower density space.
Resellers typically want lower density space.
That's why we're excited about mini-wholesale in ACC7 because we are able to move power loads from one part to the other.
So one tenant could be -- have 8 000 square feet and 800 kilowatts in the same square footage next door someone else could have 2 megawatts.
Research Division</strong> What -- given your sort of new penchant for retail or at least your initial lease that's kind of been signed what's your interest level in owning a Net Data Center? Well I think I'd want Chris to come in and also evaluate it from his perspective.
We are in the wholesale.
Right now our focus for the last 7 years has been laser-focused on wholesale and super wholesale.
Now when Chris comes in his -- 1 of his mandates from the board is to look at different product lines and make a recommendation to the product line and geography to the board.
But we do have a huge amount of expertise in this area of workouts and we need to work it out.
We'll do it but we honestly don't think we're going to get there because we see a huge amount -- we see value in different parts of their business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so assuming you don't get there the amount that they would owe just to be clear so that you guys are free and clear as a let's say a future creditor or buyer -- prospective buyer were free and clear of these obligations they owe you is it just a $7.2 million? Or is it -- that's just the unreserved part? You have -- is it the sum of the 2? Yes.
That's the unreserved part.
And the way I would look at it is they owe us the note $6.7 million due December 31 2016.
The straight line is really just an accounting receivable that would be paid off as they make their remaining lease payments.
There's no like bullet it or amounts due today on the straight line.
It's just as their lease payments are made the straight line gets amortized.
And the other thing I wanted to add is that the area we're dipping our toes into is this really mini-wholesale which is the area in between wholesale and retail.
Which is really the 100- to 500-kilowatt customers.
That's the area we're now dipping our toes in.
But of course Chris comes with a background of retail and mini-wholesale so his area of expertise will be very beneficial to the company.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a sense of what the mini-wholesale business looks like? What was the rate or at least the premium relative to wholesale leases of your first mini-wholesale lease? It is at a premium but we're not going to go into -- we can't really go into specifics.
Yes we don't like to give out rates on individual leases.
Once we have several of them rounded up we could give some kind of average.
Research Division</strong> Are asking rents at a 50% premium? Or is it roughly or is it -- am I in the right ballpark or is that a bit high? Yes.
I would say 50% is a bit high.
But I again don't want to get into the specifics on individuals.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly I guess I'm curious a little bit about the roll downs that we saw in the portfolio.
I don't know if you spoke to it specifically but in previous quarters Jeff you've given an update in terms of what percentage of the portfolio remains subject to potential roll downs of sort of order of magnitude 20% 25%.
So outside of ACC2 what's the remainder of the portfolio? Yes.
The way that I do that is about 2/3 of our portfolio is customers who could demand a super wholesale rate and only 40% of our portfolio is at super wholesale rate today so about another quarter could convert to super wholesale.
That really hasn't changed since last call.
And those timeframes are now 2018 '19 and '20.
And beyond.
And beyond.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I have one more for you which is -- if you don't mind which is just as it relates to Chris' experience obviously Telex NTT I would say is very complimentary to your current skill set in the company's bench if you will Hossein.
But seems to be pretty limited overlap and I guess I'm curious: one how comfortable you are with his ability to allocate capital and assess new investments; and two how much time you intend to be spending on DFT's day-to-day operations or how many days a week if you will? I mean yes we deliberately spent a lot of time obviously selecting a candidate.
But we finally think we've got someone with the skill set as you said that is very complimentary to what we have.
He fits in culturally very well with us and we expect to spend a lot of time together as a team especially initially.
So I think Chris very much likes the sector of the business we're in and I foresee spending as much time with him as he needs.
But he will clearly be the boss.
I will be a board member and Vice Chairman.
As much time as he needs with me I'll spend with him.
I'll have an office here on the ninth floor at 1212 that I'll be here as much as he needs me.
If he only wants to have breakfast with me once a week I certainly will do that.
If he wants me in on certain meetings I will be there as much as he wants me there.
So there are areas that I have some skill sets with design with development with construction and he has said he'd like to get my input I will be there for him.
There are certain areas that he excels in with building a sales organization what type of remote hand services some of these smaller customers may want and I would be listening to him and he will come to the board with his recommendation and then it's up to the entire board to allocate capital or not to allocate capital.
The next question comes from Jonathan Atkin at RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes just to follow up on new markets it's been so long since you entered a new market.
What type of G&amp;A or other sort of additions to your expense structure would that entail if you were to go into a new domestic market? It's not much G&amp;A.
It's under our current model.
It's hard to speak for what our model might change into because we have a centralized sales staff.
So we don't incur a lot of extra sales G&amp;A.
You might end up adding like 1 person in totality to help out when we have an additional market.
Really the more of it has been the operating expenses of the data center.
In a new market a data center lease is up not as fast as our existing markets because we don't have an existing customer base who's already shown a demand and ready to expand with us.
So it usually takes us a little bit longer and we have a longer carry period on our operating expenses until we fully recover them.
Our next question comes from Kevin Smithen at Macquarie.
This is Will for Kevin.
I was just wondering over the next 5 to 10 years what do you see as sort of the organic potential run rate of the current markets and customer bases that you're exposed to in terms of if you kept a very similar tenant base and didn't enter in any new markets how do you kind of see that demand to growing over the next few years? Well the demand for various cloud businesses is exploding.
We see that in a very large way.
So whether it's with us or others the demand for cloud is going up very rapidly especially with the bigger players.
Even they are -- if you listen to their earnings calls they have said triple-digit growth year-over-year every quarter.
So we see that demand continuing.
A lot of it is public cloud some of it is private cloud some of it is the mix of the 2 and specially on specialized products.
It may be a product related to just HR it may be a product just rated to sales but it may be a social networking product.
The -- there is certainly -- and all those products change the way we live.
So that type of demand is absolutely exploding in a very large way in all of the markets that we're in.
Okay.
And then in terms of the road map to either get deeper into the pockets of your current tenant base or to diversify these sources of growth whether it's with different tenants in different verticals or in new markets.
How do you kind of think about that? And what are you currently doing to grow the top line? We're going to try to do both.
The -- our current tenants we're keeping in constant contact with and looking at their demand loads talking to them about once a month once a quarter and making sure we're there to service their needs.
And like this month we added -- this quarter we added 2 new logos.
And the new logos will help in every sense and these are from a business sense household names and we fully expect these guys to grow with us in this market and in other markets.
So we're going to try to hit on both and I'm cautiously optimistic that we're going to be successful in doing both.
Can I ask a follow-up to that? Sure.
In terms of the demand growth of what was your -- I guess not your top 3 tenants what does that look like right now over the next 5 years versus every other tenant in your customer base? It's hard to say.
They're both growing very rapidly.
Both growing very rapidly.
I mean our top 2 tenants or both experienced tremendous growth.
It's really a matter of how much we get versus how much they build themselves.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Fateh for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
We look forward to seeing you and introducing Chris to many of you in the next month or so.
Thank you everyone.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon and welcome to the DuPont Fabros First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Chris Warnke Manager of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kate.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's First Quarter 2015 Results Conference Call.
Our speakers today are Chris Eldredge the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Foster the company's Chief Financial Officer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income and operating income as applicable are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Chris.
Thanks Chris.
I appreciate everyone joining the call today.
I'm excited to share our progress during my first 10 weeks at DFT.
In a word it's been great.
I've been able to quickly connect and make an initial assessment of the business and our opportunities.
The feedback gained from our customers has been very valuable.
They're talking with us about market preference deal structure and their product needs.
During these discussions we are gathering important intelligence on how to create an even more productive partnership.
In the DFT team my positive initial impression has proven right.
The leadership transition is exceeding my expectations in every way.
The enthusiasm is evident as we build our sales organization and map out a strategy for success.
Today I will split my prepared remarks into 2 points: what we're doing to improve near- and mid-term results and the process we're using to plan our future growth.
First let's talk about the opportunity to improve results.
We're working diligently to optimize the outcome of Net Data Centers' default.
As many of you are aware in February Net moved from a default position to bankruptcy protection an important progression towards resolution.
You'll recall that in 2015 AFFO guidance no base rent OpEx or management fee was included.
All collections represent positive upside to AFFO.
As a part of the bankruptcy process Net has paid us all rent due for March April and May totaling $3.8 million.
While this did not materially increase FFO it did increase AFFO.
We're in active discussions with Net about the future structure of their leases.
Our CFO Jeff Foster; and our General Counsel Rick Montfort have been running point on these discussions.
Their experience with bankruptcy has been a tremendous advantage.
Jeff will update you on the reserve and the financial impact of this process.
Our second near-term focus is to lease all of our existing vacant space.
I'm very pleased with the leasing done in and subsequent to the quarter.
As you know timing of leases never precisely follows the public company calendar.
The 2.2 megawatts of space we leased in the first quarter of 2015 was reported to you as a subsequent event on last quarter's call.
It was a good indication of the demand and the momentum we are seeing.
Since the close of the first quarter we have leased 4.83 megawatts split between SC1 and CH2.
This leasing speaks very well for the demand and the appeal of DFT's next-generation space.
The CH2 lease is our first prelease in Chicago and takes us to 20% preleased for Phase I.
The SC1 lease makes Phase IIB 100% leased.
This is our first property outside of Virginia that has opened 100% leased.
The entire SC1 facility is now fully leased.
We no longer have any vacant space in the market.
Overall for leases signed in 2015 we've averaged GAAP base rent of $98 per kilowatt per month.
That's up from 2014's $95 per kilowatt per month.
Renewal activity is also strong with 2.28 megawatts executed this quarter.
These renewals further improved our lease expiration schedule while having a nominal effect on cash rents.
In fact GAAP rents for these renewals increased an average of 9.1% good results but we need more.
To achieve that we are revamping our sales infrastructure.
We are using my background and our interaction with customers to do just that.
Let me walk you through what's happened.
First we've aligned our compensation plan with our leasing goals.
This plan focuses on deal quality and prioritizes NJ1 and ACC2.
Leasing NJ1 in our sales executive comp structure this year we're all incentivized to fill this space.
Second we've updated our policies to be more broker-friendly.
For the first time in DFT history a building has been listed with a broker.
In my assessment NJ1 was missing significant deal flow.
This listing puts NJ1 more prominently in the path of RFPs traffic and customer demand in this market.
Third we're listening very closely to customers and understanding their stress points.
We see opportunities for flexibility that could result in more deals and better options for customers while preserving our returns.
Fourth we're rebuilding our sales organization.
We'll add brokers as needed.
The goal is to increase deal flow and focus our in-house team on new and existing customers with stronger sales engineering support.
With that as a backdrop let's talk about current vacancy.
My goal and frankly the whole team's obsession is with NJ1 and ACC2.
Today NJ1 is 59% leased on critical load and 70% leased on square feet leaving 7.5 megawatts available to lease.
Of that amount we believe we can lease between 3 and 4 megawatts before we run out of space.
The remaining critical load capacity will be shifted to Phase II.
At ACC2 our sales team is actively pursuing inquiries that have been made about this space.
Neither space will lease overnight.
However we're focused energized and cautiously optimistic about our prospects.
Customer feedback and market intel says that several of our locations would benefit from our mini-wholesale offering provided it comes with more support.
My background includes extensive experience in this type of offering.
My assessment is that DFT and our customers will benefit from remote hands.
Remote hands is value-added.
It requires no capital outlay provides additional margin and is the perfect complement to mini-wholesale.
We're initially rolling it out this summer in Ashburn.
We may add this service to additional markets dependent upon customer demand.
So what's the opportunity long-term? This is what I'm most excited about.
I've engaged managers from every part of the company to participate in the development of our new strategy.
I believe it's crucial to tap into the knowledge base of DFT's great team.
This collaborative process builds the foundation for real commitment to achieve results.
So what does the process look like? The market selection process is a good example.
The team and I are evaluating supply and demand in each market.
We're talking to local brokers about planned development market players and current deal flow.
We're talking to more current customers about where their requirements are going.
We're looking at price points relative to development costs.
We're checking network connectivity and power cost.
We're researching tax benefits for customers.
And lastly we're looking at potential acquisitions.
Right now we're spending 2 half days a week on our strategy.
Everyone is extremely excited about it and we look forward to sharing our plan with you in the fall.
The positive instincts I had during the search process are proving right.
The deeper I get into the job the more confident I am about the company's prospects and success.
Now let me turn it over to Jeff to discuss our financials.
I'll look forward to talking with you more during the Q&amp;A.
Thank you Chris.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to cover 5 main topics today: our first quarter results an update on Net Data Centers a development and capital markets update our 2015 guidance and last our dividend.
Our 2015 first quarter -- our first quarter 2015 normalized FFO was $0.61 per share which exceeded the top end of our guidance by $0.01 and exceeded the midpoint by $0.03 per share.
Our normalized FFO increased $0.02 per share or 3% compared to the first quarter of 2014.
AFFO for the quarter was $0.65 per share compared to $0.62 per share for the same quarter of 2014 an increase of $0.03 per share or 5%.
Quarterly revenues were $107.3 million an increase of $5.2 million or 5% from the previous year's quarter.
Now on to Net Data Centers.
As discussed on our last earnings call Net paid their OpEx direct electric and management fees for both January and February but not their base rent.
Since our fourth quarter earnings call Net filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on February 23.
Since then we have received full rent payments including base rent for March April and May totaling $3.8 million.
We applied March's base rent to Net's straight line receivables which now total $8.5 million down from $9.5 million last quarter.
We have reserved $3.7 million of these receivables leaving $4.8 million unreserved.
To note NJ1 straight line receivable is fully reserved.
Of Net's $6.5 million note we have $5.1 million reserved which represents 78% of the outstanding balance.
As of March 31 this customer's unreserved receivables totaled $6.2 million.
We applied the April and May base rent payments received from Net to their straight line receivable.
And as of today total unreserved receivables have been reduced to $4.5 million.
Net also impacted our same-store revenue growth.
Normalizing for Net same-store revenue growth would have been 5.2% year-over-year while same-store same capital revenue growth would have been 1.3%.
Although this situation is not ideal we are working diligently on reaching an optimal outcome for our shareholders and will immediately report any material information regarding this matter.
Let's now move on to our development updates.
On May 1 we placed into service Phase IIB of Santa Clara.
This adds an additional 9.1 megawatts of critical load to our portfolio and completes the build out of SC1 totaling 36.6 megawatts.
As Chris mentioned this phase was a 100% leased prior to the opening.
We achieved a 9.2% return on investment for this final phase.
Excluding the $64 million we previously invested for the land shell underground conduits and redundancy the additional $47 million needed to complete the build will yield a 21.7% return for this newly invested capital.
The entire building generated a return of 9.2%.
Now on to our next development CH2.
At quarter end we have spent approximately $160 million of the projected $200 million budget.
Of the total projected spend roughly $120 million is for future phases which includes the land building shell underground conduits and infrastructure redundancy.
Subsequent to the quarter we signed our first prelease for 1.4 megawatts making Phase I 20% preleased.
We now expect to deliver our 7.1 megawatts in July.
CH2 Phase II will require very low incremental spend to complete a build-out of additional 5.7 megawatts of critical load.
ACC7 Phase II is on-time and on-budget to deliver 8.9 megawatts in the fourth quarter of this year.
This leads me to our capital markets update.
We purchased $31.9 million of common shares from our board-approved $120 million stock repurchase program at an average price of $31.80 per share.
As with any capital allocation we will continually seek the best risk-adjusted return to maximize shareholder value.
To date we've drawn $180 million from our $560 million line to partially fund our 3 developments and the stock buyback.
Cash flow after dividend payment is also helping to fund these items.
As a reminder we're expecting $75 million of cash flow to be available to fund developments in 2015.
We plan to permanently finance our line balance either in the form of an add-on to our existing bond a new bond issuance or an unsecured term loan.
We are currently planning to complete this in the second quarter versus the third quarter in our original guidance.
I now would like to discuss our 2015 guidance.
Our second quarter 2015 normalized FFO guidance range is $0.61 to $0.63 per share.
The midpoint is an increase of $0.01 per share versus the previous quarter.
We increased our full year 2015 normalized FFO guidance range by $0.03 per share from $2.27 to $2.47 per share to $2.30 to $2.50 per share.
The reasons for this increase are outlined in today's earnings release.
We continue to assume no revenue from Net Data Centers in both the higher and lower ends of the range.
The remaining 2015 contractual revenue from this customer is $0.12 per share $0.09 per share for base rent and $0.03 per share for OpEx and management fees.
The low end of the range assumes that ACC2 is not released in 2015.
Current revenue of this data center is $0.05 per share per quarter.
Upon lease-up we anticipate that ACC2 will generate $0.04 per share per quarter of FFO.
And this is included in the high end of the range.
Our second quarter AFFO guidance range is $0.65 to $0.69 per share.
The midpoint is an increase of $0.02 per share from the first quarter results.
The full year guidance range increased $0.06 per share from $2.40 to $2.60 per share to $2.46 and $2.66 per share.
The increase is a result of increasing normalized FFO guidance by $0.03 per share and an additional $0.03 per share from the March April and May base rent we received from our bankrupt customer which is being applied to the straight line receivable thereby increasing the add-back to AFFO.
Last but not least let's discuss the dividends.
On April 15 we paid our quarterly dividend of $0.42 per share.
The anticipated 2015 annualized dividend remains at $1.68 per share which represents an estimated AFFO payout ratio of 66% at the midpoint of our guidance.
This is slightly higher than our 60% to 65% target range due to the impact of Net Data Centers.
With that let me turn it back over to Chris who will provide some final comments.
Thanks Jeff.
Four quick thoughts.
First the leasing demand for our product is off to a great start in 2015.
Second we are working diligently to fill all of our available space with special attention to NJ1 and ACC2.
Third I look forward to sharing our strategic plan with you.
We are excited to define DFT's next chapter of growth.
And finally I want to thank the DFT team for making the initial transition smooth.
I'm very lucky to be part of such a great team.
With that let's go to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Colby Synesael of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess as it relates to some of the changes that you guys are now making Chris I was wondering if you could just give us a broader view of why so many changes are happening now as opposed to just kind of keeping it status quo.
What's really incenting you to do all these different things? And then the second thing as it relates just to the cost of some of the things you're already moving towards is there any reason to think that the margin profile or the FFO profile of the company is going to change materially good or bad as a result of what it is that you're doing? Sure Colby.
I'll take the first part of the question.
And the second part I'll send over to Jeff.
So as far as the changes right we talked about New Jersey.
And I've had a lot of success in that market.
And we feel that that market is a place where we can be successful.
When you look at our NJ1 facility it's a great facility.
It shows very well.
We haven't been seeing the necessary deal flow that's in that market.
And that's one of the reasons why we decided to go out and list the building with a broker.
In my past life I've had a tremendous success with brokers.
We also feel in that market that our mini-wholesale product is a great product for that market the 100 kW customer to the 500 kW customer.
And a lot of those customers are financial services-related pharma-related.
They ramp up from 100 kW to 1 megawatt.
So we think with intense focus on that facility we can be very successful.
The second thing that I talked about is the compensation plan.
We're trying to tailor our competition plans to dictate the right behavior.
So for example we've put SPIFs in place for specific locations.
Our comp plan is now variable based on the profitability profile.
So the more profitable a deal is the more the salesperson would be rewarded.
So we're trying to make sure that we change the behavior and we dictate the appropriate behavior from our salespeople to drive the goal that we see needed for the company to be successful.
Jeff? Yes.
And Colby I'll answer the margin question here.
So when you look at the changes that Chris talked about there's really no impact on the way our FFO or margin would be calculated.
Let's go through a couple of them here.
First broker commissions or if there's increased commissions to our sales staff those do not impact FFO as they get capitalized and then amortized.
The amortization is an add-back to get FFOs.
There is no impact there.
There could be a small impact to AFFO because we do a subtraction there for commission.
The sales staff that we're hiring are all in the G&amp;A projection.
We are going to hire one additional person for the soft rollout of the remote hands again very immaterial would not expect to see a change in our margin percentages for that.
So overall I wouldn't expect any impacts from what we're doing today.
The next question comes from Dan Occhionero of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk a little bit about cloud growth and the impact on your business? Specifically a few weeks ago I know Amazon reported that AWS was actually more profitable than anyone had initially believed.
Can you guys just talk a little bit about that? I could definitely talk to you about that.
I still believe we're in the early stages with cloud.
And some people have asked me "Chris are you going to build a cloud platform?" Well I view us as an enabler of cloud.
So as the cloud grows we grow.
And I think it's an important component of the business growth.
If you look at the way we communicate it's a lot different than we've done in the past.
If you remember the days of your computer crashing and having to back up your information well all that stuff is stored in the cloud.
So we're seeing storage grow by 3x.
We're seeing compute and other types of cloud products really really grow.
So for us as an enabler of the cloud it's very positive.
And we want to continue to be enablers of the cloud.
As the cloud grows we grow.
And I think like you mentioned Amazon's numbers I was surprised by some of the numbers myself.
The profitability of their business was actually pretty good and they're going to continue to grow.
And Microsoft is a great example of that.
Their Azure product has had tremendous growth for the last couple of quarters.
So as the cloud grows we benefit from the cloud as one of the top enablers of the cloud in the space.
Yes.
I think Microsoft has stated from their Azure product that their needs for data center capacity is doubling every 6 to 9 months.
And you'll notice that they are our #1 customer so we are benefiting from that.
The next question is from Emmanuel Korchman of Citi.
Research Division</strong> The CH1 prelease was that with a new or an existing customer? Manny that was with an existing customer.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Jeff if we think about the buyback versus leverage and you going out and fixing data at a 5.5% interest rate how do you sort of weigh the buyback against that? And also how do you think about sort of what pricing you're willing to do buyback or not? Thanks Manny.
So for the buyback we've done to date that's raised our leverage by 0.1 so pretty immaterial.
We do have some ability to do more buybacks that could increase the leverage some more.
But we're really thinking about it in terms of what are our overall capital needs for the company.
Today we still have the need to fund our remaining developments.
We have about another $80 million of funding needed there this year some of which will come from internal funding and some of which we will have to do borrowings for.
So we weigh the buyback against that on a risk-adjusted return basis.
We're still want to keep our leverage ratio down around 4x debt-to-EBITDA.
And we look at our development the needs there and we weigh that against the opportunities to do buyback.
I really don't want to discuss the price ranges we would buy back in.
We tend to buy back when we believe the stock is cheap and we look at that on our individual stock price and then relative to our peers.
Research Division</strong> And maybe we'll toss them back to Chris.
As you've made some of these changes in particular stuff like changing the comp structure bringing in brokers have you gotten any push from the sales organization or anywhere else internally that they don't like the changes being made? Or has everyone sort of bought it and said "Hey we've got a new leader and let's follow his vision"? Honestly it's been very positive.
And the sales team was important in helping us to design the compensation plan.
So they fully support it.
Research Division</strong> And how do they feel about bringing in brokers? It's a positive thing for them because we're compensating them and the brokers.
So the brokers are an alternate means of distribution for us.
So we're going to see deals that we've never seen in the past because there's certain enterprise companies that only work with brokers.
The next question comes from Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore ISI.
Research Division</strong> Well listen I have a couple of questions here.
But first you were just talking about the Chicago prelease.
It's with an existing customer.
I apologize if you said this but was that a super wholesale or a wholesale lease? Jonathan this is Jeff.
That is a wholesale lease.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
So all right 2 questions here.
First if you could spend -- and I know you're going to come out with a larger plan now at some point given the need to continue to dive deep into the processes and operations of the company but if you could give us some sort of perspective on capital allocation.
You've got Silicon Valley completely sold out now.
You've got some available space in Virginia.
And Chicago obviously is 20% preleased.
How do we think about the decision to put more capital to work maybe in Silicon Valley where I think the asset was targeted about a 9% return versus maybe further investment in a different existing market or alternatively a new market? And then I'll ask one last question after.
Hey Jonathan it's Chris.
I'll take the Santa Clara piece first.
So obviously we've been very successful on the Santa Clara market.
You know the markets well right now and there's definitely a supply issue in that market.
So 2 years ago I think there was more supply than demand and we've seen the dynamics change.
So we have 5 acres of land that we could actually expand our existing facility into which would take it up to if we estimate over about 51 megawatts.
So my team is in the process of taking a look at that.
We're hoping the capital per megawatt to build that facility will be lower than it has been in the past.
But we're optimistic that we think we can drive down the OpEx in that location by bringing on more megawatts and then get a higher price point per kW potentially.
So we think the return threshold could potentially be better in the Santa Clara market.
So I'll have more to talk to you about on the next call about that because the team is working on putting some numbers together for me.
But Santa Clara is definitely on our radar screen.
You mentioned a question about the strategic plan.
So we're evaluating potential new markets to expand into all across North America.
And that's going to be a part of the plan that we're taking a look at.
I talked about in my prepared comments all the diligence that we're doing to make sure that we make the right decision when we decide to go into some of these markets because we put the plan together before I had joined that included expansion into 2 potential new markets.
So the team and I are leading the charge on doing that.
And I hope to have more to report to you on the potential market expansion on the next call.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then if I can just ask a final question.
Microsoft as you noted is your largest customer.
And you guys in your latest deck actually broke out I think the top 10 or top 20 customers which was great detail.
Thank you for that.
Microsoft has been rumored to be potentially taking a run at CRM or Salesforce.com which I believe is also a top 10 customer of yours.
And I'm just wondering if you can give us any perspective regarding potential risks or repricing or anything around that should a deal be consummated.
There's also a rumor that Oracle is going to take out Salesforce.com too.
So it's really hard to speculate on that right now.
I mean I really don't know if it's going to happen.
But I don't really think there's any inherent risk for us with that potential transaction as we see it.
The next question is from Jordan Sadler of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My question is on sort of strategy.
I know it's early days as you're pulling together the plan you're getting the input of folks.
I am curious though as the world is unfolding before you in the data center space this spring with Cervalis and Carpathia and Latisys and Equinix for Telecity there's a lot going on obviously.
I'm curious how -- if you guys are in a position to be thinking about or looking at any of these transactions at this point or if that type of activity has kind of got to be tabled until the plan is revealed.
And what the timing is now to reveal the plan? Jordan thanks for that question.
Let's take the M&amp;A piece.
Obviously there's been a lot of activity specifically over the last 2 weeks in our space.
If you take you look at my background I've been involved in $15 billion worth of both buy- and sell-side transactions.
So I have a lot of experience in M&amp;A and integration.
As I mentioned in my prepared comments acquisitions can be a part of our strategy right? And I'll give you an example.
We talk about market expansion and there's a couple of ways to get into a new market.
We can build a data center from the ground-up.
We can buy a powered base shell and retrofit it ourselves or we can do a transaction that would get us inventory into market a little bit quicker.
So those are the things that we're definitely going to take a look at.
And if an opportunity makes sense it's my job to bring that to the board and to get their feedback and their opinion on that.
So as a part of our plan acquisitions are going to be a component of it.
And I'll be happy to share that with you in the fall when I share the plan with everyone on this call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
We're thinking third quarter conference call timing? We're thinking late third quarter early fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as it relates to the stock repurchases that were done Jeff how are you thinking about capital at this point? Are you -- it seems like there's a little bit of incremental repurchasing post the filing of the 10-K.
Should we expect that you're still ready willing and able there? Or is that also kind of going to be tabled until the plan is fully meted out? There comes an opportunity when we feel our stock is undervalued we would take another shot at doing repurchases.
As you saw we did $30 million of our $120 million the first time around.
So we did leave a little bit of dry powder.
But again like my prior answer we really are focused on making sure we can fund our development and fund any future acquisitions that might come out of the strategic plan.
So we have to balance those needs against the buyback.
And we will do so on a risk-adjusted return basis.
The next question is from Fred Moran of Burke &amp; Quick.
Research Division</strong> Of the $0.12 remaining at risk from Net Data Centers how much would you recover if you were able to renegotiate all leases at current market prices assuming some discount to keep them active? Okay thanks Fred.
It's Jeff.
So I want to rephrase it a little bit.
The $0.12 is out of our guidance.
So we see it more as upside versus being a risk.
And I think there was some analysis done after our first quarter call that indicated that our leases were probably about 30% above market so we could probably retain 70% of it to get it down to market.
That's just a rough order of magnitude.
Research Division</strong> And at this time what do you think the most likely resolution is in terms of will they release across all 4 data centers? Will they do some portion of them? And separately if they don't release any of these what is your recapture AFFO number if you take the customers directly? Okay.
So on predicting what's the most likely outcome is it's kind of hard to do since Net is in charge of the process.
I can tell you we kind of see 2 outcomes or a combination of these 2 outcomes: one Net goes back to its landlords and ask for rent reduction; two they sell some assets to someone else to gain some capital inside the business; or a combination of those 2.
Not sure which one would be most likely at this point.
And then I think your last question was if Net rejected all of our leases how would that work? What would our recovery look like? So if Net rejected all of our leases for each lease they reject we would have a claim of about 15% of the remaining value of Net.
So it will get to be such a large claim that it would be very difficult for Net to have enough money to come out of the bankruptcy without giving equity to the creditors.
So it puts us in a situation of possibly having equity in Net.
For the customers once they reject the leases those customers need someone to serve them.
We're probably in the best position to serve them because they're in our data centers.
But it would be up to the bankruptcy judge to make that determination as to whether we are the ones who serve those customers.
On the last call based on the information we looked at from Net in January we thought on an annual basis $0.11 of margin could be obtained if we had all the customers under our wing.
So that's $0.11 out of the $0.16 that Net would have paid us on an annual basis.
I hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally any update on the progress releasing the Yahoo! space for September? Yes this is Chris.
I'll take that question.
And good question Fred.
We've had a few inquiries on the space and we're cautiously optimistic.
The next question comes from Young Ku of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back to Net Data Centers a little bit.
My understanding when they filed for bankruptcy was that you guys thought they won't be paying rent.
So what kind of discussions have you had with the company? And have they stayed current with the other creditors? We have discussions with them basically every week on different aspects of the bankruptcy.
I don't want to get to any details about what we're talking about there.
But once they filed bankruptcy on February 23 all the money they owed to all their creditors prior to that amount was protected under bankruptcy.
Each creditor gets a claim to the amount owed.
And Net has to resolve those claims to get out of bankruptcy.
On a go-forward basis Net has to pay the debt.
They're the debtor-in-possession and the bankruptcy court demands them to pay the debt.
And they have to pay full rent including base rent for March April and May.
And they would need to do so on a go-forward basis in order to remain in the good graces of the bankruptcy court.
If they could pay full rent every month they wouldn't have gotten into this problem.
So there will be a limit on how many these full rent payments they can make before they have issues with their cash.
LLC Research Division</strong> And have they remained current with the other creditors or no? As far as we know they have.
We do get a monthly report that Net has to file to the bankruptcy court of all the payments made.
And the last report we got was for March.
So we haven't seen April yet.
But in that report they have paid the other landlords also.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And my next question is for Chris.
You talked about your kind of expansion plans.
Would additional land purchases outside of your current land up for development would that be something that's also on the table? Because it's pretty modest as it sort of stands today outside of future development projects so I'm just wondering if you can comment on that.
Yes this is Jeff.
Let me take the first part then I'll throw it back over to Chris.
We do have committed purchases in Ashburn of 2 parcels of land.
One would be a smaller parcel of land that would probably be for a powered base shell.
And the other 2 you'd be able to build our bigger data centers on that.
We're going to call it ACC9 and 10.
And we expect those purchases to close later this year.
And I'll throw it over to Chris for his remarks.
Yes.
And in some of the markets I mentioned earlier on the call that there's a few options.
But obviously one of the things that we think we do really well is we build huge high-scale data centers.
And when we expand into some of these markets we want to make sure that our wholesale product has demand so we would look for land in those markets as well.
Your next question comes from Tayo Okusanya of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> This is Charles standing in for Tayo today.
Just a couple of quick questions here as most of mine have been asked.
Just curious on the New Jersey foot traffic whether that's increased this quarter or whatnot.
This is Chris.
And that's a great question and I'll take that.
So one of the things I think that's important to me and the whole team as I mentioned in my prepared remarks is support of all of our goals for 2015.
So there's a laser-focus on Jersey.
And that's one of the reasons why we decide to hire a broker the first broker we've hired in the history of the company to help support us in that building.
We think there's opportunities in that market that currently we're not seeing.
So your question is on foot traffic.
The funnel was weak when I took over the company in New Jersey.
And we're just starting to build up that funnel right now.
So we're hoping as we go on throughout the year the funnel gets better and better and better.
But from my past experience and I've had a lot of success in Jersey it's a great market and there's a lot of opportunity for us in that market.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one more quick one circling back to the strategic plan and then sort of thinking about what's going on among your peers in terms of M&amp;A.
I'm just trying to think does that pressure you guys to do something sooner rather than later if that's on the table? And then how do you balance that with potentially expanding into some of the new markets you had suggested that might be a potential option? Charles yes I'll take that one too.
I mean I think it's a combination of both to be quite honest with you.
I've been with the company right now for about 10 weeks.
And there's been a lot of transactions that have happened in the space.
But I've been focused mainly on leasing the space that we have meeting our top customers meeting our employees and helping build the strategic plan.
But when we do a transaction we're not going to do a transaction just to do one.
We want to make sure it's the right transaction and it fits with our strategy and it helps us to even make our current business stronger.
So we're going to be very selective in the type of transactions that we look at.
We're not going to be pressured.
We're going to do what we feel is right.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And if can just sneak one last one in here real quick on back to New Jersey.
When we think about the expansion on that asset would you be looking to do a prelease just given the challenges you've had in that market? Or would you assuming you can get some of the remaining space leased up to where lease capacity meets the appropriate footprint would you -- again would you rather do preleasing or stack? We would love to do preleasing.
I mean preleasing...
Yes that's a requirement today Charles.
To do the second phase obviously you want to fill the first phase and we would need to prelease for that second phase to begin.
The next question is from Dave Rodgers of Baird.
Research Division</strong> Hey Chris maybe talk a little bit about the mini-wholesale product you did the first lease in the quarter.
Was that something in the pipeline when you got here? Was that something you brought along? And maybe just more broadly with regard to mini-wholesale can you talk about using integrators and other services you might need to add to be competitive in order to grow that business? Dave that was actually done before I got here.
So that was in the pipeline before me.
But I think there's a real opportunity with mini-wholesale and the way we price and the way we market our product for us.
We have a high-quality facility.
And those mini-wholesale customers can potentially become wholesale customers.
I've seen it in my experience.
So if you take a 100 kW customer and 12 months from now it's at 1 megawatt.
So we think we can have a lot of success with that.
And if you look at the new design in our ACC7 facility it gives us the flexible density to do that.
So we think we're going to have a lot of success with that product for a market that has been somewhat underserved.
I know you and I talked about it in the past.
We're not going to be in the single cabinet business.
We think the 100 kW and above is the sweet spot for us and we can compete very aggressively in that space.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just my follow-up question I guess switching topics.
I know you've been there about 10 weeks or so but Facebook obviously sits out there.
Have you had a chance to meet with them? And any indications from them on when they would decide what to do or how they're leaning with regard to the future expiration? I think I've met with Facebook about 5 times since I've been here so I've spent a lot of time with them.
And we're optimistic with Facebook.
So I mean if you look at their business they're continuing to grow.
They're continuing to buy companies.
So if I had a crystal ball I would think that they -- the relationship between us and them is pretty strong and they love our facilities.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Matthew Heinz of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just a question of the sales force ramp.
I was hoping you could help us understand maybe how far along you are in that process to date.
I know it's still early days.
But how should we sort of think about the pace of that as we layer the cost into our numbers going forward? Yes.
I don't think -- what we're doing is we have a very modest sales force as most of you know.
We didn't have a salesperson in Chicago.
Well now we have a salesperson in Chicago.
We have offers out to hire people in New Jersey.
So we're not going out and bringing in hundreds of people.
When we're fully ramped up we're going to have 6 salespeople.
So I don't think you're going to see us going out and hiring 30 and 40 people because we're making sure that we hire the right people for the job.
We just don't want a body.
So we're being very selective in the process and we're seeing a ton of great candidates.
And we're looking to bring almost these people relatively quickly.
Jeff do want to add any color on that? Yes Matt.
Just that all the headcount that Chris was talking about in the sales organization are in the G&amp;A estimate we have on the last page of our guidance.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just in terms of timing I mean do you expect that to be completed by end of the year by second half by the time you kind of roll out the strategic plan? I'd have to say that we're already halfway there at this point at the end of April beginning of May.
So I would hope that the next call we'd tell you that we're fully set.
Yes I'm hoping for like next week sooner rather than later.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching gears back to M&amp;A you mentioned acquisitions as a use of -- or a potential use of capital to kind of carry out your strategic objectives.
I was hoping you could elaborate a bit on what type of assets you might be considering whether it's more of a focus on up-the-stack services or perhaps more of a traditional real estate play that could accelerate the mini-wholesale strategy or move into colo? Yes I think it's more of a real estate play.
I think we have a good strategy and we have great customers.
And our customers are asking us to expand into different markets.
So if there is an asset that we think that's great that can get us into one of the markets that we're taking a deep look at I think it will be beneficial for us.
[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from Matt Niknam of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 if I could.
One on growth as you think about sort of incremental growth from here you've talked about wanting to sell some of the existing inventories you've got in place.
Are you looking more to sell this into your existing customer base? Are you actively seeking newer logos with some of the sales hires that you're bringing in? And then secondly there's been a lot of talk about M&amp;A.
Just wondering how necessary do you think an international footprint is for the company longer term given some of the moves we've seen recent moves we've seen from industry peers? Hey Matt a great question.
I think we're looking to sell to both.
I mean obviously we're looking to always add new customers right? We have 38 customers right now and a new customer would be great.
But we also have a great base of existing customers.
So it will be a combination of both.
I'll take the second question and I've operated data centers all across the globe.
And international expansion does help you with certain opportunities when you're dealing with customers looking for multilocations.
But for us primarily right now the focus is on North America.
And Matt just to add I think Chris said it earlier.
But our salespeople are incented to get new logos.
They have a SPIFs for that this year.
So they are out pounding the pavement looking for new customers.
The next question is from Ross Nussbaum of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure if I missed this.
Can you comment on Zynga and what you think the prospects are for the renewal of their lease later this year? Yes this is Jeff.
So they have 1 megawatt left with us with ACC5 that comes up on June 30.
And we have been in conversations with them as to what their plans are.
And at this point I think it's too early to release any information on that.
We're still in those negotiations.
Research Division</strong> Where is that rent relative to market would you say? The rents at ACC5 are generally above current market because that building came on 2009-2010 at the height of market rent -- at the height of the rent curve.
Research Division</strong> Another question I had I thought I heard you say that you're going to be buying some land later this year to which would be used to potentially build out ACC9 and 10.
If I heard that correctly I was curious as to why you would do that when you've already got ACC7 what Phase II in lease-up.
You've got Phases III and IV out there.
You've got ACC8 already on the books.
Why would you buy the land for 9 and 10 now? And I assume this land is being bought from Hossein and Lammot.
Why is it being done now? Yes that's a legitimate question Ross.
So ACC8 is 10 megawatts.
So we cannot build our normal building there.
It'd either be like a build-to-suit or a powered base shell for somebody.
So after ACC7 is full we do not have any land in Ashburn to build the type of building we like to build.
So it will take a couple of years to get everything permitted to get the substation built.
So we need to own that land today in order to get that process going so it's available once ACC7 is fully leased up.
And you are correct we did disclose in our 10-K that land is from entities that Lammot and Hossain are involved with.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just sneak one in I understand the commentary around adding brokers to try get New Jersey leased up.
I guess the question is you guys make it sound like that's sort of the magic sauce to make it work.
And I'm not going to say it's going to be easy but you just sound pretty optimistic about it.
If it's so straightforward why didn't the company previously do it? Was there just simply refusal to work with brokers at any cost? Hey Ross that's a great question.
And I'll take that one.
Brokers are just a component of it so it's not all brokers.
It's just the first thing that we've done before.
So we're also looking at alternate distribution types like working with the systems integrators that I mentioned earlier on the call.
And just to give you an example of a systems integrator Accenture Infosys Deloitte those are companies that help you sell in the space.
And from my perspective and having been successful working with brokers and systems integrators it gives you alternate distribution.
And I think you know that New Jersey is a market that we haven't been successful in.
We don't have a salesperson in that market right now.
We're looking to hire somebody in that market so we're exploring all avenues.
Jersey is important to us and we're focused on it.
Research Division</strong> And from a cost perspective if you want to go into mini-wholesale how much incremental capital do you think you have to put in above and beyond what you've already got in there sort of converted to mini-wholesale? Yes.
So it's not really a conversion Ross.
What we do is we go ahead and build out the overhead busway and electrical top infrastructure and tap boxes where customers will plug their servers into.
When we do regular wholesale or super wholesale that is not built out for the customer and the customer either builds it themselves or contracts with our taxable REIT subsidiaries to do that.
In this case it will already be prebuilt and we're estimating $1 million a megawatt or so for that.
And then if we provide some fencing and cabinets it could go up to $1.5 million a megawatt.
The next question is from Will Clayton of Macquarie.
First on M&amp;A just curious about your general -- any commentary you can give us on the valuations of recent assets rumored to be for sale or deals that have already been announced as well as the kind of competitive implications you could see for you guys whether it's purely just an opportunity or if there are any deals out there that you think that could change the landscape through a competitive position.
And then I have a follow-up after that.
Okay.
I'll take the first part of that on the multiples being paid.
I mean yesterday's announcement about Carpathia was a classic in that I originally heard from the selling bank that it was 13x.
And then I saw QTS announce it was 10x.
So it's somewhere between 10x and 13x EBITDA depending on how you do the calculations.
I think most of the reports I've seen today are honing in around 10 to 11x EBITDA.
We know last year the transactions that took place were between 11 and 13x EBITDA.
And I think that's kind of become the range 11 to 13x EBITDA.
And I'll turn it to Chris.
Yes.
And you asked a question from a competitive standpoint of view I'll actually use Cervalis as an example.
We have a data center in Jersey.
When you look at the Cervalis asset they have facilities 2 in Connecticut 1 in New Jersey and 1 in Wappingers Falls.
So we feel we already have a facility in the market and they have a cloud platform as well.
We're not a cloud player.
And we're a data center company that does a really good job for our customers.
And we want to continue to do that.
So as I mentioned earlier on I mean these transactions may work for some of our competitors but I'm not sure if they work for us.
And when we do a transaction we want to make sure it's the right asset and it fits us and the integration part of it would be easy.
As I said before I've done this a lot of times and I've seen transactions that have been really negative for companies and really have a negative impact on their business.
So we're going to be very selective and very focused during the whole M&amp;A process.
All right that's helpful.
And then I guess just on the demand pipeline any commentary you can give us on new customers versus existing customers in any specific verticals or market anything that kind of indicate where you see the growth coming from whether it's the new or existing tenants and maybe where geographically or in what industry? Yes it's a combination of both.
I mean obviously we saw growth in Santa Clara so the facility is sold out.
We're looking at land in Virginia.
So I mean we actually purchased additional land in Virginia.
So I wouldn't think we would do that if we didn't see demand in that market.
If you look at the markets where we're seeing really really strong on demand is where the Internet points are: Chicago Santa Clara Virginia.
Those markets we're seeing a lot of interest from the similar type of customers that we have.
If you look at New Jersey it's the financial services is the foremost.
So I mean it's a diverse type of verticals.
And you also take into consideration that 81 -- 80% to 85% of IT resources are still in-house.
So I think there's a tremendous market opportunity for us going forward with our facilities and the design that we have in ACC7 with the flexible density.
It actually helps us go after customers that may not need 200 watts per foot that need 150 watts per foot or whatever it is so the lower density type customers the mini-wholesale product is going to help us with that.
So we think we'll have the ability to add more new customers and also expand with our existing customer base.
That's helpful.
One last one if I can just on the market expansion you're talking about discussions with existing tenants that have asked for capacity in different markets.
Is there any sort of plan that you have in your mind already about what an expansion facility looks like if it's one of your 30-megawatt facilities versus an initial getting your feet wet in the market with a 10-megawatt facility? How do you think about that? I mean we could build a big facility and build it out in phases too like the right incremental phases 10 megawatts and then another 10 megawatts.
So we would take a look at it.
When we look at -- when we're going through our strategic plan for lack of a better word we're looking at all types of designs.
And that's all out on the table with the -- the markets that we're looking at as I mentioned in my remarks power cost is low.
There's connectivity.
We're looking at the supply and demand dynamics.
We're not going to go into a market that we think is oversupplied.
So I mean this is science when you look at market expansion and I've done it before.
And we want to make sure that we make the right choice and we choose the right markets when we do expand.
And lastly talking to our customers they're great resources for us.
We have a great customer base.
And one of the things I've been able to do early on is I've had an opportunity to meet all of our top customers.
And I asked them the questions like "Where do you see growth in your business? Which markets do you think are best for you?" And they're great resources of information.
We have great relationships with our customers.
And it's a lot easier to expand when a customer is telling you to go into a market than just building something cold.
The next question is from Bill Crow of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First let me just tell you the list that you gave of all the initiatives that you're doing sounded great.
But it also sounded like a lot of them were kind of obvious.
And it's kind of a little frustrating that it wasn't being done before.
But it does sound like you got things going in the right direction so congratulations on that.
Let me ask you you mentioned some of the things you looked at for the decision to buy back stock.
And you said one of them is where you're trading relative to the peers.
And I'm just trying to figure out why that is relative or relevant in your decision-making process as opposed to say your NAV estimate or other uses of your capital et cetera.
What -- Why would you look at the disparity between the multiples as a trigger for buying back stock? Bill it's Jeff.
I'm going to answer that.
So when we saw a decline that precipitated us buying the stock we were the only one that went down at that point.
It was all related -- well at least partially related to Net Data Centers situation.
And Net paid us sort of 3.5% of our revenues and our stock went down 15%.
So we thought we were cheap compared to the market.
There's also been declines over the past few weeks where everyone's going down because the interest rate uncertainty.
So that's what I kind of mean when compared to the peers and what's going on in the overall marketplace.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Chris Eldredge for closing remarks.
Thank you.
I just want to thank everyone for joining the call today.
And we look forward to seeing many of you next month at REITWorld in New York City.
Thanks again.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the DuPont Fabros Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call and Webcast [Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr.
Chris Warnke Manager of Investor Relations.
The floor is yours sir.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's second quarter 2015 results conference call.
Our speakers today are Chris Eldredge the company's President and Chief Executive Officer and Jeff Foster the company's Chief Financial Officer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal Securities Laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income and operating income as applicable are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.DFT.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be strictly enforced to only two per caller.
Should you have additional questions you may return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Chris.
Good afternoon.
I appreciate everyone joining the call today.
We're hard at work here at DFT on our strategic plan.
As we dig in the team and I are more convinced than ever of the strength of the growth drivers for our business.
The cloud and social media are growing outsourcing is real.
And in our target markets the supply and demand fundamentals are compelling.
First let's talk about the cloud.
The hyperscale providers the Amazons the Microsofts the Googles of the world are growing at record levels as the world produces and consumes ever-increasing amounts of data.
The demand for data storage is exploding as IP traffic video social media and gaming surge.
And all this activity lives in data centers.
Increasingly it lives in outsourced data centers.
Many customers confirm that outsourcing just makes sense.
It's a part of their future plan.
We're talking to prospective enterprise customers today who are running in-house data centers.
Their operating costs are several times higher compared to a DFT facility.
That's a trend that should not continue and will turn our way.
And supply we're in and are evaluating the top North American markets.
After visiting with planners electric utility providers and customers we believe the North American data center market as a whole is underserved creating an opportunity for the right product in strategic markets.
Our strategic plan is being designed to capture the growth of these drivers.
We're very optimistic about the prospects for our industry and our company.
We're clear about our opportunity as an enabler of cloud.
As it grows so do we.
In the meantime let's talk about our current operations.
The team and I have set out several objectives to achieve.
Objective one strengthen our sales force.
DFT has a very strong leasing history but I knew there were opportunities we were just not seeing.
When I started we had a very lean sales team just three people covering our four markets.
My initial priority was to increase the sales team to drive deal flow.
We've doubled our leasing team from three to six.
Now this gives us a salesperson in each DFT market and sales engineer in support.
Our sales engineer brings enhanced technical knowledge and customer interface expertise and will expedite fulfillment of customers' requirements.
Objective two boost traffic in New Jersey.
When I came on board it was clear to me we were not seeing all the opportunities in the market.
I felt we could improve our exposure by partnering with the brokerage community.
That approach has been successful for me in the past.
So in May we partnered with CBRE to be our leasing broker for New Jersey.
As you recall the funnel for New Jersey was depleted when I started.
Our partnership is beginning to fill this funnel.
We've already seen increased tourists and traffic for this asset.
With this partnership our new salesperson on-site we've laid the foundation for success.
We're on a positive track in New Jersey.
Objective three lease existing space.
We achieved great results for the quarter.
We signed five leases totaling 12.26 megawatts and extended three leases totaling 7.91 megawatts.
In Santa Clara we signed a lease at one of our top customers for 3.41 megawatts in Phase IIB allowing us to place this new phase in service at 100% leased.
This leaves us with no available inventory in this market.
We're examining how to best use our five acres of available land.
We have proved the technical feasibility of the incremental development.
We have a very compelling site-specific design and are in discussions with customers about their requirements.
Assuming we can get the right economics we're prepared to add capacity with the goal delivery in the first quarter of 2017.
In Chicago we signed a pre-lease for 1.42 megawatts in Phase I of CH2 with an existing cloud customer.
We completed that phase on July 1 and it's currently 20% leased.
At ACC7 we signed three leases totaling 7.43 megawatts with one of our top customers.
Two of these leases were for 4.46 megawatts in phase I.
The remaining lease was for 2.97 megawatts in phase II.
Phase 1 is now 84% leased.
Phase II scheduled for delivery in the fourth quarter is now 33% pre-leased.
We had good lease extension activity as well.
At VA3 one of our top pharmaceutical customers extended their lease on 1.3 megawatts by five years pushing the lease term out to 2021.
Year to date lease extensions have increased cash base rent by 7.7% and GAAP base rent by 4%.
Objective four increase inventory through developments.
Given the demand in our core markets we've commenced two new developments.
One is Phase II of CH2 which will bring an additional 5.7 megawatts to the Chicago market.
The second is Phase III of ACC7 which will bring an additional 11.9 megawatts to the Ashburn market.
Both developments are scheduled to be delivered in the second quarter of 2016.
There are still opportunities to improve results.
One such opportunity is to secure a customer for ACC2.
There is a good possibility that the 10.4 megawatts Yahoo currently occupies will be vacant when the lease expires at the end of September.
Given our position in Ashburn we're seeing every opportunity that comes to market.
Our sales team is all over it.
The nature and the time frame of the sales cycle will be different depending upon the ultimate user.
Shorter for a current customer longer for a new logo.
Right now we're sharply focused on leasing this space.
The second opportunity is to resolve and optimize the outcome of Net Data Centers' bankruptcy.
As most of you are aware Net filed for bankruptcy in February.
As of July 1 their leases in our four properties were rejected.
This rejection was expected and moves us closer to resolution.
Net plans to have an auction process for these four data centers which several companies are currently conducting due diligence on.
Jeff will provide more details and update you on the financial impact of this process.
Now a few comments on the strategic plan we've been working on.
Previously I discussed expanding into new markets.
We have narrowed our focus to four of the initially targeted six North American markets.
We're in the process of completing our extensive diligence.
In addition to our customer meetings we've met with economic development officials at the state and local level electric utility providers property owners and I have toured existing data centers all essential components of our market expansion plan.
Our plan also includes evaluating our triple net lease structure offering a more flexible product to our customers and developing criteria for evaluating potential M&amp;A activity.
All these efforts support our goal of increasing and diversifying our customer base in a profitable value-centric way.
I'm looking forward to sharing the details with you at our Investor Day on Tuesday November 10 in New York City.
In the meantime we remain focused on leasing and developing our current markets and executing on all aspects of the business.
Now let me turn it over to Jeff to discuss our financials.
Jeff? Thank you Chris.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to cover five main topics today.
An update on Net Data Centers our second quarter results a development and capital markets update our increased 2015 guidance and lastly our dividend.
First an update regarding Net Data Centers.
Since Net filed for bankruptcy in February we received full rent payments from Net from March to June totaling $5.1 million.
We applied the base rent payments to Net's straight-line receivable instead of revenue.
This totaled $0.04 of potential revenue that was applied to the straight-line receivable $0.03 for Q2 and $0.01 for Q1.
On June 23 the bankruptcy court granted a motion requiring Net to either accept or reject their leases with us by June 30.
Since there was no action taken by Net the court issued an order stating the leases were rejected effective July 1.
Given this order we have the right to take back the space and have Net vacate our four facilities.
Since Net was and still is currently in negotiations with potential purchasers for their East Coast assets we mutually agreed to a month-to-month revenue sharing arrangement through January 31 2016 which took effect July 1.
Beginning July 1 we're entitled to receive 83% of all of Net's revenues from its customers that are located within our facilities.
Since July 1 we've received about $800 000 from our revenue sharing agreement.
This is about $0.5 million less than we would have received under the leases Net rejected.
By giving 30 days' notice we can require Net to vacate the space for any reason.
Including one if a sale does not appear likely or two we have a customer who wants to lease this space.
Now I'd like to walk you through the accounting.
Due to the leases being rejected we wrote off a portion of Net's straight-line receivable leasing commissions and intangible assets which totaled about $2.2 million or $0.03 per share.
Of this amount $0.02 per share lowered normalized FFO as a reduction of base rent.
Please note that leasing commission amortization is an add-back to normalized FFO.
None of it impacted AFFO as the write-off was non-cash.
As of July 29 the remaining unreserved straight-line receivable from Net was $900 000 which we believe can be recovered through the revenue sharing agreement.
Once this receivable is recovered all future payments received from Net will be recognized as revenue.
Of their $6.5 million note payable to us we have $5.1 million reserved which represents 79% of the outstanding balance.
We believe the remaining $1.4 million can be recovered when Net settles its claim to exit the bankruptcy process.
Now on to our financial results.
Our second quarter 2015 normalized FFO was $0.62 per share which was the midpoint of our guidance.
This was achieved in spite of the $0.02 write-off related to Net.
Our normalized FFO increased $0.01 per share or 2% compared to the second quarter of 2014.
AFFO for the quarter was $0.70 per share compared to $0.62 per share for the same quarter of 2014 an increase of $0.08 per share or 13%.
The increase was primarily due to higher cash rent including the $0.04 collected from Net.
Quarterly revenues were $113.8 million an increase of $11.9 million or 12% from the previous year's quarter.
This increase was a result of leases signed and commenced and excludes the base rent received from Net.
The increase was also the result of increased one-time a la carte projects in the current quarter for the subtenant of Yahoo and ACC4 and an increase in recoveries from tenants related to higher real estate taxes.
In the second quarter two events occurred which increased our real estate taxes by approximately $3 million compared to the previous quarter.
Our VA4 facility had an increase in its assessment for 2015 which we trued up for the year.
This increase resulted in an additional $0.5 million of property tax on an annual basis all of which is recoverable under our triple net lease.
The second event was an audit of the FC1 facility for the last four years.
We will appeal this increase in assessment and have booked a reserve of $2.9 million for all four years.
$1.9 million of this reserve is anticipated to be recoverable under our triple net leases and $200 000 was capitalized to SC1 as it related to time frames when the property was under development.
In total the increase in real estate taxes lowered normalized FFO and AFFO by $0.01 this quarter.
Let's move on to our development update starting out with the two data centers that were recently put into service.
As discussed on our last earnings call we placed Phase IIB of Santa Clara in service which was 100% leased prior to opening on May 1.
This facility is now fully built out and totals 36.6 megawatts of critical load all of which is 100% leased.
Let's turn to Phase I of CH2.
On July 1 we delivered the first phase of 7.1 megawatts 20% leased leaving 5.7 megawatts of current inventory.
Given the current demand we're seeing in this market we have commenced development of the second phase of CH2 which is an additional 5.7 megawatts of critical load.
This will require only $20 million to $25 million of additional cash investment as a significant amount of the equipment has already been installed to provide the redundancy for Phase I.
Additionally we're able to achieve cost savings by not having to mobilize and restart construction as the team is already in place finishing up the Phase I development.
We anticipate delivering Phase II in the second quarter of 2016.
Moving on to Northern Virginia and our ACC7 development.
Given the healthy demand in this market we have two additional phases of ACC7 under development.
Phase II consisting of 8.9 megawatts is 33% pre-leased and is scheduled to be delivered in December of this year.
Phase III will add an additional 11.9 megawatts of capacity and is scheduled to be delivered in the second quarter of 2016.
Due to the additional developments of CH2 Phase II and ACC7 Phase III we increased our forecasted 2015 development spend from the prior range of $150 million to $170 million to $180 million to $200 million.
This leads me to our capital markets update.
During the second quarter we did not purchase any shares under our $120 million stock repurchase program.
We still have $88.1 million remaining under the program through the end of 2015.
In June we issued $250 million of eight-year term senior notes with an interest rate of 5 5/8% and a price equal to 99.205%.
The proceeds from this offering went to pay down our unsecured line of credit and will also fund a portion of our current development.
At quarter end our floating rate debt was down to 30% of our total debt compared to 48% prior to the offering.
This leads me to our unsecured line.
Subsequent to the quarter we increased our line from $560 million to $700 million.
All of the material terms of the line remain unchanged.
As of today there are no borrowings on this facility.
The increase will allow DFT to pre-fund more development activity as we seek to expand into new markets.
Cash on hand free cash flow after dividend payments and our line of credit provide abundant capacity to fund our current development and continues to grow our business in a prudent and healthy manner.
I would now like to discuss our third quarter and revised full-year 2015 guidance.
We increased our full-year 2015 normalized FFO guidance midpoint by $0.03 per share.
The new range is $2.38 to $2.48 per share compared to last quarter's range of $2.30 to $2.50 per share.
The increase in the midpoint is a result of healthy leasing an increase in customer a la carte services to assist customers with the build-out of their computer rooms and lower interest expense due to increased capitalized interest.
This was partially offset by the $0.02 write-off in the second quarter related to Net Data Centers.
The low end of the range assumes that ACC2 is not re-leased in 2015.
No additional leases are commenced other than the pre-lease in Phase II of ACC7 and no additional revenue from the computer rooms which are currently occupied by our bankrupt customer.
The high end of the range assumes ACC2 is re-leased effective October 1 at a 20% decline in rent which is our best-case scenario.
$0.04 of additional revenue from new leasing and $0.02 of additional revenue from September to December from the Net Data Centers computer rooms.
This revenue could either come from Net or a buyer of Net.
Our third quarter 2015 normalized FFO guidance range is $0.59 to $0.62 per share a decrease of $0.01 per share at the midpoint versus the prior quarter.
The small decline is primarily a result of higher interest expense in the third quarter versus the second quarter due to higher debt levels higher rate after the bond issuance and lower capitalized interest due to placing CH2 Phase I into service on July 1.
Now on to AFFO.
We increased the low end of our full-year AFFO guidance range by $0.10 per share which increased the midpoint by $0.05 per share.
The new range is $2.56 to $2.66 per share.
This midpoint increase is a result of increasing normalized FFO guidance by $0.03 per share and an additional projection of $0.02 per share from the revenue sharing agreement for July and August rent from Net which will be applied to the straight-line receivable thereby increasing the add-back to AFFO.
Our third quarter AFFO guidance range is $0.63 to $0.67 per share.
The midpoint is a decrease of $0.05 per share from the second quarter results.
The decrease is due to the lower normalized FFO $0.02 less cash from Net Data Centers in the third quarter versus the second quarter and increased CapEx on operating properties in the third quarter due to the timing of our projects.
Last but not least let's discuss the dividend.
On July 15 we paid our quarterly dividend of $0.42 per share.
On July 27 we declared our third quarter dividend also at $0.42 per share which will be payable on October 15.
The anticipated 2015 annualized dividend remains at $1.68 per share which represents an estimated AFFO payout ratio of 64% at the midpoint of our current guidance.
This is in line with our 60% to 65% target payout ratio.
With that let me turn it back over to Chris who will provide some final comments.
Thanks Jeff.
Our planning process points to three important factors that bode well for our sector.
Extraordinary cloud and data storage growth expansion of outsourcing and a supply and demand imbalance that will favor development and operation of highly efficient data centers in key markets.
Our portfolio retooled sales infrastructure and refined strategy will enable DFT to capture our share of data center growth.
Now let's go to your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
The first question we have comes from Colby Synesael of Cowen and company.
Please go ahead.
Two questions.
One you seem pretty positive about the progress being had by the brokers as it relates to the New Jersey market.
Curious when you think that actually could translate into some signed new leases? An then as relates to the land in California and expectations to potentially build out on that.
Would that be for a single customer that you're considering? And maybe some form of custom build perhaps at a lower return? Or is this for one of your more typical facilities that you're considering? Thank you.
I guess I'll address the first question which is regarding New Jersey.
We started with CBRE in May.
And I wish I could predict the sales cycle but we're seeing solid activity in our funnel an increase in tours and activity into the data center.
So we're optimistic that we'll start seeing some activity in that facility as soon as possible.
The second thing to address is SC1 Phase IIB or we would call it probably Phase IIB-C.
Facility is a 15 to 16 megawatt facility.
It would be an extension of the existing 36.6 megawatts in Santa Clara.
We feel that it could be a facility that would be a multi-tenant type facility potentially with one customer or multiple customers.
We have a basis of design done for the location right now.
We're also talking to customers about their requirements.
And last but not least we're taking a look at the potential return before we decide to move forward with that building.
So we're looking for a better return.
The next question we have comes from Emmanuel Korchman of Citi.
Maybe we can talk about the stock buyback.
So you used it in 1Q.
Your 2Q stock levels have similar trading prices to 1Q.
How are you guys thinking about using that program going forward? And what are your -- the metrics you're most focused on? On the stock buyback program we now have three developments underway.
The second phase of Chicago number two and the second and third phases of ACC7.
Additionally as Chris noted we're looking to go into new markets at the completion of our strategic planning process.
So we're prioritizing our capital allocation now toward new developments which we believe would have a higher return than the buyback of the shares.
So it's really about prioritizing where we spend our capital.
And in the past I know I've asked the question of whether you'd consider being a buyer of Net Data Centers as a company or some of the assets.
Where do you stand on examining the assets within that company? I think one of the things that we want to continue to do is we want to be an enabler for retail providers in our facilities.
And I think it's something that we feel is important.
The second thing is that there are -- there is actually a lot of interest in the Net Data Center assets.
So we're hoping that the purchaser could come in and really do a great job of growing the business.
And as Jeff mentioned before we're looking to expand into new markets that this potential buyer could expand with us.
And we could help them grow and enable their business to be successful.
If you had to just look at that buyer pool and break it out into existing logos in your portfolio and people that you don't have relationships with how would that pan out? I would say the vast majority are people we don't have relationships with.
Jordan Sadler KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Coming back to the strategic plan Chris I think you touched on honing in on four of the six targeted markets.
I'm curious when are you targeting for the plan to be comprehensive? And/or -- and where you'll be in a position to fully discuss it with investors? Yes that's the November 10 Investor Day that we've scheduled in New York City.
Okay.
So on November 10 we'll hear more about that? Yes.
Okay.
Could you see yourselves taking down or entering one of these new markets before then? Or is this a longer-term planning that we're engaged in here? Yes we're in the diligence process as I mentioned in the script.
We're talking with people in local markets.
We're actually going out to these markets and examining.
I think we'll be better prepared to talk about it November 10 at our Investor Day.
There's a lot of work going on behind the scenes.
I would imagine.
And then as it relates to guidance Jeff you walked through a couple of the pieces and just trying to parse it.
I wasn't sure if the high end includes two separate $0.04 items one from ACC7 maybe and one from Yahoo? If you could maybe clarify that? Or if those are the -- there's just one $0.04 revenue item? I'm pulling this from the press release too.
Yes definitely Jordan I will do that.
So the difference between the low end and the high end is $0.10 and there are two $0.04 items in there and a $0.02 item.
So the first $0.04 item is re-leasing Yahoo's ACC2 space effective October 1.
That's a 20% decline.
The second $0.04 item is leasing any of the availability in our portfolio and having it commence this year.
So we have 96% leased right now so there's only 4% available in our portfolio or somewhere around 10 megawatts.
So leasing some of that would create another $0.04.
And then the last $0.02 is from Net Data Centers getting some revenue out of their computer rooms once we burned off the straight-line receivable.
So $0.02 of revenue from September to December.
Okay.
So I guess in that context -- and this is my last question -- you've got $0.08 built in there $0.04 of it in terms of the Yahoo lease.
That seems pretty specific.
It was -- there was zero in guidance previously.
I think you were just assuming it would roll vacant and now you've got $0.04 at the high end.
How should we interpret that? I would imagine that you guys have high conviction that something is about to hit in order to be able to deliver space October 1 is one piece of it.
And along the same lines this incremental $0.04 interest from the rest of the portfolio where you had virtually zero we're late in the year to be adding that amount of incremental revenue particularly given the limited space you have available in the stabilized portfolio.
So can you speak to I guess what's given you the conviction around those two $0.04 items? Yes it's not conviction Jordan.
It's for the first time ever we laid out the road plan on how we get to the high end of the range.
And that came off some feedback I got after the last earnings call.
The last time the range was $0.20 and we didn't really lay out a road map how we'd go from the low end to the high end.
So now we're just laying out that road map.
I wouldn't say this is conviction.
It's just how we thought about it when we set the range.
Those numbers were already in the guidance? They were in the high end last time.
The 250? Yes and you'll see the high end came down $0.02.
So part of it went away.
Okay.
How do you feel -- handicap it for us.
Now that it's spread out for us how could you handicap at a minimum the Yahoo piece? And maybe just the other $0.04? Do those seem likely at this point? Jordan I'll take the Yahoo piece and I'll let Jeff talk about the other $0.04.
As I said there was a good possibility it would go vacant given the discussions we're having with customers on their requirements.
I can tell you one thing that we're actively working inquiries.
We feel we see every opportunity in the Northern Virginia market of a deal this size.
I can't predict the sales cycle.
But re-leasing this space is a top priority for me my leadership team and our sales force.
Yes okay.
So on the other $0.04 from leasing up our portfolio again that's just a matter of getting the leases earlier in the year than later in the year.
If we get the 10 megawatts leased in December it wouldn't do much.
But if we could get something leased now into third quarter it would help quite a bit.
I think we'll definitely get a portion of the $0.04 but it all relates to timing as to whether we get the entire $0.04 which is hard to predict.
Next we have Dave Rodgers of Baird.
Maybe on some of the early contractual changes that you announced in the quarter.
Can you remind us about how some of those came about where you've been able to offer customers a little shorter lease term on some of those spaces for changing rents? And maybe talk about whether or not we're going to see any more of that coming up in the next couple of quarters? I can't predict what's going to happen Dave in the next couple quarters.
But when you look at that opportunity the 7.43 megawatts there were 67 months in concessions.
But there also were three extensions two by 12 months each and one by 6 months.
We felt that that was a great opportunity for us with a great client and it was mutually beneficial for both parties.
But I really can't predict what's going to happen in the future but I would say it's unlikely.
And it sounds like you use CBRE in New Jersey but I guess as you think about the rest of the portfolio and bringing some more development online and you've brought up your own sales team.
Can you talk about maybe some successes that you're having with any new logos or new conversations? Maybe going down the systems integrators path? And how successful you're feeling that your early steps have been? Yes I'm feeling pretty good about it it's just got to move faster.
And that's something that's really important and we're starting to cultivate a lot of these types of relationships.
We're pleased with the results we're seeing from CBRE.
But again in my opinion it has to move faster.
And some of these new markets may potentially entertain relationships like that but we're not sure.
As far as our core markets when you take a look at Virginia we believe we see all the deal flow in that market as I stated before so we really don't need a relationship like that in Virginia.
Santa Clara obviously the building is 100% leased.
And in Chicago as well we feel we see most of the large opportunities in that market.
But one of the things that's important for us as a team and as a group is we want to diversify our customer base and we want to make sure we're as flexible as we can be with new potential customers.
And we know new logos is something that's really important for the business and there's tremendous focus on it.
The next question we have comes from Fred Moran of Burke &amp; Quick.
First Chris with the accelerating demand for cloud evidenced by Amazon web services' 81% growth rate what kind of discussions are you having with Microsoft Rackspace or others for taking more space? And why might they like or not like the Yahoo space specifically? And if not that space do you have capacity elsewhere to service them and fuel that cloud demand? Yes Fred we talked a little bit about some of the expansion ACC7 phase III the 11.9 additional megawatts and CH2 Phase B which is the additional 5.7 megawatts.
And I can't comment on specific customers but there's a reason why we're actually going out and looking to expand like that.
Obviously because there's demand.
You didn't mention Microsoft's growth rate which was 88% and we also saw that their compute was growing 3 times.
So it's Amazon Microsoft and Google who are the hyper scale providers which I talked about in my opening remarks that are growing tremendously as well as data storage.
The second part of your question is ACC2.
If you take a look at ACC2 it's a different building than our ACC7 building.
It's 10.4 megawatts.
It could be split into two 5.2 megawatt parcels.
It's some of our highest power density space in our portfolio at close to 200 watts per foot.
We really feel that building suits a single tenant customer the best.
And that's what we're holding out for.
And those are the types of customers we're talking to to be potential tenants in that facility.
Okay.
And then I just have one for Jeff just to clarify the NDC revenue sharing agreement.
If I'm hearing it correctly it sounds like what was rent of about $0.04 or total revenue of $0.04 per quarter in AFFO seems to drop all the way down to $0.02 for the last four to six months of the year.
Is that right? Or am I missing something? You are right Fred.
So why did you agree to such a drastic drop? And if another customer were to come up quickly would you evict them immediately and replace them? Yes let me answer both of those.
So we agreed to the drop because our options was they rejected the leases and we could either just have them leave and receive no revenue until we re-leased.
Or we could have this drop in revenue and still get something while we're looking for a solution.
We're right now working with them on their sales process and we want to give that a little bit of time.
But if we were to find a customer for some of this space and that was in our best interest to have that new customer we would ask Net to leave.
Next we have Jonathan Schildkraut of Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
I'm going to burn my first question trying to pick your brain Chris given your experience.
Telex just sold to Digital Realty.
You worked at Telex in the past.
Obviously you guys have a position on the wholesale side of the business that's not dissimilar.
I'd love to get your perspective on that transaction.
And then I'll circle back with another question.
I think Telex is a great company that's really well managed and they've done a really good job with interconnection and the 20 data centers that they're in.
I think there's a lot of synergies with this transaction between Digital and Telex considering that Telex is one of Digital's top customers.
I also think that now this transaction helps them compete aggressively in the retail space.
So now they have a strong opportunity to compete against the likes of Equinix CenturyLink [indiscernible] and it puts them in a pretty solid position.
My next question has to do with some of the puts and takes of the big Facebook lease and extension that you guys signed.
And I'm just wondering as you look across the portfolio if you could tell us a little bit about who might have put-back options from a space perspective.
And I guess -- I'll tell you the reason why I'm asking this question.
Rackspace is talking about a very meaningful change in their business model one where they're providing support on top of other people's infrastructure.
That is support for Amazon support for Microsoft support for Google.
And ultimately that could lead to a whole lot less of needing their own infrastructure.
Now based on their data they are only using 31 megawatts of 62 megawatts they've committed to.
And so I want to understand through DFT's lens what the risk is of having their space being put back to you? Thanks.
I'll take part of it and I'll let Chris elaborate.
So none of our customers have the right to put any of their space back to us.
Some of our customers including Rackspace -- and it's really just a handful of customers -- have some early termination rights.
For Rackspace we've reflected the early termination date in the lease expiration table.
So they would have to pay us a sizable fee in order to terminate early.
In most cases we have done it that way and put the lower -- the less lease term in the expiration table.
And I'll let Chris elaborate on Rack's model.
Jonathan just to talk a little about what they're doing that's a model that's not uncommon.
There's companies out there like Datapipe that provide service on top of AWS.
I think Rackspace tried to compete directly against those quote hyperscale cloud providers on pure cloud and they weren't as successful as they would have liked to have been.
I think they have a great managed hosting business that's going to continue to grow.
We have a great relationship with Rackspace.
So I'm not really nervous about the space going away or them not doing well in their business.
I think they have a solid business.
We meet with their leadership team pretty regularly and I'm bullish on their business.
Jeff I just wanted to make sure I understood what you said correctly.
You've reflected in the leasing table the earliest possible termination date.
If they hit the date that's in the leasing schedule do they have to pay you? Or is that the first date that they can terminate without having to pay you an excess fee? They would have to pay us to terminate on that date.
Next we have Matthew Heinz from Stifel.
So as you think about the cash rent roll-downs in the portfolio as certain leases transition into super wholesale and you maybe re-lease the Yahoo space and the Net space over the next 12 to 24 months.
How could that potentially impact the book value of certain assets particularly some of the older facilities that are marked at a higher historical cost? The book value we're not able to ever increase the book value; we can only lower the book value.
And we really don't anticipate through any of these rent roll-downs as people transition to super wholesale rates that that would have an impact on our book value.
And could you just remind us one more time what the cash and GAAP expected impact is once the Yahoo space the 10 megawatts is re-leased? Yes our prediction all along has been a 20% roll-down in cash a little less than that in GAAP and that is our best case scenario.
Jonathan Atkin RBC Capital.
I have two questions.
First of all if you could just talk a bit about the competitive environment for let's say one megawatt or higher deals in each of your four markets? And you say you see every deal in Virginia and you see almost every deal in Chicago.
But if you could talk about in broad terms what you're seeing from other public or privately held wholesale data center operators in those markets? And then the second question was I was interested in what types of changes in your product offer are you considering in order to achieve more new logos and the customer diversification that you're aiming for? Thank you.
Yes I'll take the first part about the competitive environment.
Like everything we're seeing pretty solid deal flow at the 1 megawatt and above.
The markets are competitive and in Chicago and Virginia there is competition.
We still think the markets are somewhat under-supplied and we feel like we're in a very good position in those markets.
New Jersey is a unique market where the deal flow below 1 megawatt is a little bit less.
It's more the 100 kilowatt and up up to 2 megawatts.
So you're not going to see the same size deal flow in New Jersey.
Obviously Santa Clara is a market that we're 100% full.
So the deals we're seeing in that market are pretty much 1 megawatt and above.
So from a competitive landscape standpoint of view it is still competitive.
We think pricing has stabilized so we're not seeing as much irrational pricing in the marketplace that we've seen two years ago so we're bullish on our future opportunities in those markets.
The second thing that you asked me about is the new products right? And one of the things that we learned from New Jersey is that we have to be flexible in our design.
So for example each market is unique.
And as we venture into some of these new markets we want to make sure that we have the right product to be successful in those markets.
Each customer has unique type of requirements and we want to make sure that we're as flexible and as scalable to ultimately add more new customers and diversify our customer base.
One of the other things that I talked about on the call is we're 100% triple net lease.
We're open potentially to other types of lease structure.
Triple net lease is still going to be the main factor in our portfolio but we'll explore other types of lease structure in order to add some more new customers.
[Operator Instructions].
Next we have Will Clayton of Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
I was just wondering if you could walk us through the sources and uses of cash between now and the end of Q2 2016 when you have some development coming to market? If you could just run us through between the dividend and development what do you see in terms of the sources and uses? And are you going to have to access the capital markets again between now and that point? We haven't given 2016 guidance so some of it will be a little abbreviated.
But our development costs and our construction payable that's on our books at June 30 to finish the developments we have underway would be about $160 million.
So that's our outflow.
This year in 2015 we're producing about $75 million of cash after dividends.
Can't really predict what that number will be in 2016 but let's just use $75 million at this point.
So $160 million minus the $75 million and that's going to have $85 million.
We'll fund that through our line of credit.
So there wouldn't have to be any capital transactions in order to finish these developments.
There is the possibility of a capital transaction this fall that we've mentioned in the past.
Our preferred Series A comes up to their five-year anniversary where we can call them at par.
And if we're able to do that get a lower interest rate and issue new preferred stock and it all looks economically advantaged to us after paying the investment banking fees we would do that.
One more follow-up.
Just wondering how your conversations have gone? You've mentioned in the past that you've been exploring the possibility of working with systems integrators.
I know in some discussions you've talked about anchor tenants and new expansion markets.
What are the new opportunities that you're really excited about that we can look forward to hearing more about on an Analyst Day or on the next call? Yes systems integrators are in the very early stages as I mentioned before that we would hope that they would move faster.
But with everything else them bringing opportunities to us is actually going to take a little bit of time but we're optimistic.
The thing that we're really excited about is potential expansion into some of these new markets.
After having been out and looked at all these markets looked at land met with the utility providers analyzed the supply and demand dynamics some of these markets we believe we can be very successful in.
And there's a couple ways to enter the markets.
We can build a facility from the ground up right take some time.
We've also looked at enterprise data centers in some of these markets.
I'm not exactly sure if that's going to be an option for us.
And we could also potentially do a transaction with some level of M&amp;A-type activity.
So all these are going to be a part of our strategic plan that we're going to talk about on November 10.
And that strategic plan doesn't include potential trimming of the current portfolio? No not at all.
Next we have Young Ku of Wells Fargo.
I just have a quick couple questions.
Jeff in the $300 million base rent on GAAP basis and $312 million on cash basis does that include any rent from Net Data Centers space? Yes Young it does include rent for what they're paying right now under the revenue sharing.
And for Yahoo it includes the next quarter the third quarter rent.
And how much was it for the Net Data Center again? I don't have that in front of me.
I'll have to get that back to you.
Why don't you ask the next question and I'll find it.
Okay.
And you still have a few years left until your ACC3 term loan gets due.
But just wanted to get your thought on what you plan to do when that loan does mature in 2018? And what kind of things that the lenders are looking at when you're trying to get a secured debt on data center assets? Okay.
And yes let me get back to you on your other question.
Net is in there for $2 million cash in GAAP.
We're not really looking to do -- it was about secured financing I believe.
We're not ACC3? Yes our one piece of secured debt is on ACC3.
That is there to allow our OP unit partners to be able to guarantee a piece of debt to protect our tax basis.
That's the only piece of secured debt that we plan to keep at this point in time.
It's a contractual obligation to our OP unit partners.
I don't know if that answers you or not.
And once it matures then I would assume that you guys would try to go an unsecured route to refinance that debt? We're not planning to refinance it at this point in time.
We would probably keep out a piece of secured debt for our OP unit partners.
Next we have Jordan Sadler KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Just a follow-up on opportunities that are in front of you.
You're looking at the incremental Santa Clara development as well as others in new markets.
And I'm curious what the return hurdles are? And/or expectations for those new developments? And maybe speak of those in the context of the return you could -- you get by buying back your stock today? We'll probably tag team this Jordan.
So in our new markets we're still targeting our 12% return and we believe buying back our stock gets us somewhere in the 8%s so we think that's a healthy risk-adjusted spread.
On the Santa Clara as you know in the first building -- or the part of the building that's complete we got a 9.2% return which is still a little bit higher than our buyback.
I know Chris is aiming to get a higher return for the third -- I'm going to call it Phase III instead of Phase IIB-C.
I think he's trying to get a higher return for Phase III than 9.2% but I'll let him comment on that.
I was asked the question earlier in the call about one customer or two.
We're definitely looking for a higher return.
That's one of the things that we're going through in the process.
Whether it be longer leases higher price points.
Because we think by this development tacking on the additional 15 or 16 megawatts to the 36.6 megawatts is going to lower our operating expense for the customer in our triple net lease model.
So we're looking for better returns.
Okay.
And would you consider as you're looking at development and the product offering that's available would you consider doing a powered base or shell data center these days? Or still purely the turnkey product? Let me comment on that.
If you look at our development table ACCA is listed in there around 10 megawatts.
That's perfect for a powered base shell.
Additionally we're buying an additional piece of land which we talked about on the prior call in Ashburn that will be about the same size that could also be for a powered base shell.
So it is something that we're open to doing versus building just a smaller data center that would have a higher operating cost.
And Jordan just to add on to what Jeff said it goes with the theme of us being more flexible to add more new customers and we want to do that.
Would you do that in Santa Clara though? I think in Santa Clara we don't have to based on some of the discussions we're having.
So we probably would not do that in Santa Clara.
At this time we're showing no further questions.
We will go ahead and conclude our question and answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference call back over to Mr.
Christopher Eldredge for any closing remarks.
Sir? Thanks everyone for joining us on the call today.
I hope to see many of you in New York on November 10.
Thanks again.
And we thank you sir and to the rest of the management team for your time also.
The conference call is now concluded.
At this time you may disconnect your lines.
Thank you and have a great day everyone.
Good afternoon and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to Chris Warnke.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Amy.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's third quarter 2015 results conference call.
Our speakers today are Chris Eldredge the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Foster the company's Chief Financial Officer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of the subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income and operating income as applicable are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations' section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be strictly enforced to only two per caller.
Should you have additional questions you may return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Chris.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Good afternoon.
I appreciate everyone joining the call today.
We had a great quarter and I am eager to tell you about it.
First a little history.
When I joined DFT in February the team and I established five key objectives for 2015.
Those objectives were to resolve Net Data Centers' bankruptcy issues secure customer for ACC2 lease up our available inventory and renew expiring leases strengthen our sales and marketing team and develop a strategic plan to increase DFT's growth and profitability.
Eight months into my tenure and I'm happy to say we've achieved all five goals.
Here's some color on each.
Objective number one successful resolution of Net Data Centers' bankruptcy.
DFT has a new customer ANEXIO Data Centers an IT Solutions provider.
On October 28 ANEXIO purchased from Net the business and assets in our four data centers.
ACC4 to ACC5 VA3 and NJ1.
We entered into new leases with ANEXIO for 4.13 megawatts of critical load in these four locations.
The new leases run through December 31 2023.
During Net's bankruptcy we worked hard to optimize the outcome for DFT.
Jeff will walk you through the financial details in his comments.
But the key takeaway is this.
From January 1st through today we collected $8.5 million from Net Data Centers none of which was reflected in our initial 2015 guidance.
We are very pleased to have this portion of the process closed.
We are looking forward to establishing a strong and healthy relationship with ANEXIO and benefiting from their successful turnaround of Net's assets.
Objective number two re-lease of ACC2.
In October we leased the entire 10.4 megawatt facility to one of our existing customers.
As you recall this building was optimized for larger users.
It had two 5.2 megawatts rooms with a power density of approximately 225 watts per square foot.
While the market is full of 1 megawatt and 2 megawatt users 10 plus megawatt prospects come to market less frequently.
Last year we saw three such requirements in Northern Virginia.
We captured one requirement for 13.65 megawatts at ACC4.
We could not accommodate the others as Yahoo! could not vacate ACC2 in time to meet these requirements.
But with the exponential growth of cloud data storage and other Internet applications we knew that another large requirement would surface in Northern Virginia.
It has and we've captured it.
The full 10.4 megawatt building has been leased and our customer will take occupancy in the first quarter of next year.
This further deepens our relationship with a great customer and we're delighted to expand our service offering to them.
Jeff will walk you through the economics of the lease in his comments.
Objective number three.
Lease up available inventory and renew existing leases.
I'm so pleased with our team's achievements.
Let's talk about new leases first.
ACC7 is a great example.
Subsequent to the quarter we signed two new leases totaling six megawatts.
The first lease is for three megawatts in Phase I.
This lease has begun and takes Phase I to a 100% leased and commenced.
We leased Phase I in 14 months and achieved an ROI of 13% exceeding our 12% target.
The second lease is a pre-lease of Phase II for 3 megawatts.
It's expected to commence this quarter.
It takes us to 67% pre-leased in Phase II.
CH2 fared equally well.
We leased 6 megawatts there with the lease commencing this month.
We leased all of Phase I within four months of opening exceeding our expectations with an ROI on the phase of 13%.
The increase in ROI reflects the healthy demand environment for wholesale data centers.
We are averaging GAAP-based rent of a $101 per kW per month for new leases signed in 2015 which is a 6% increase over 2014.
Now on to renewals.
During the quarter we renewed 0.57 megawatts in ACC5 and pushed that expiration from 2016 to 2021.
Subsequent to the quarter we extended a lease for 1.49 megawatts in ACC7 pushing that expiration from 2017 to 2021.
For the year lease renewals have averaged to $110 per kW per month on a GAAP basis an increase of 5.4% over the previous GAAP raise.
Cash base rents will increase 4.5% versus the cash rate in effect at the time of renewal.
Our portfolio is now 97% leased with available space limited to Northern Virginia and New Jersey.
To build on our leasing momentum we have four developments under construction in our best markets.
Upon completion they will add 39 megawatts to our portfolio.
We delivered the first phase of CH2 20% leased on July 1.
It's a 100% leased only four months after opening.
In July we commenced development of the second phase of CH2 for 5.7 megawatts of critical load.
We anticipate delivery in the second quarter of 2016.
Given the current demand we are seeing in our pipeline we are now commencing development of the third phase of CH2 which will add 12.5 megawatts and will fully build out the facility.
We anticipate delivery of this final phase in the third quarter of 2016.
Chicago has proven to be a robust market for outsourced wholesale data center requirements which is why we purchased a 9.7 acre parcel of land adjacent to CH2 in August for $8.6 million.
The next steps are to remove the existing warehouse tenants from this land and finalize the design for CH3.
We are currently estimating this data center to have 22 megawatts of critical load and about 120 000 square feet of computer room space.
Now onto Northern Virginia.
The development of phases II and III of ACC7 are on schedule and on budget.
Phase II consisting of 8.9 megawatts is 67% pre-leased compared to 33% pre-leased last quarter.
We expect this phase to be delivered in December of this year.
Phase III will add an additional 11.9 megawatts of capacity and is scheduled to be delivered in the second quarter of 2016.
We continue to see healthy demand in Northern Virginia based on recent lease signings.
Now onto objective four strengthening our sales and marketing team.
When I started we had a very modest sales team just three people covering four markets.
We've added sales capacity in Chicago and New Jersey to drive deal flows.
We've added a sales engineer to enhance our customer interface and accelerate the sales cycle.
Most recently we welcomed industry pro (9:34) to our team as Chief Marketing Officer.
It's not enough for current customers to know that DFT's buildings design and operational expertise are the best in the business.
We need to get the message out to a broader range of customers.
As we do we can capture more new high quality logos.
Bob is a seasoned business veteran with 30 years of international B2B and B2C marketing experience.
He is a great addition to the team.
Our enhanced sales and marketing efforts are producing results.
Our pipeline is full of opportunities.
That takes us to objective five.
Develop a five-year strategic plan to drive our growth.
The team and I've taken a deep dive into our business and our opportunities for accelerated growth.
Our plan has been finalized approved by our board and is ready to present to you at our Investor Day.
I'm looking forward to sharing the plan with you on Tuesday November 10 in New York City.
Before I turn it over to Jeff I wanted to recap our sales and marketing success.
So far in 2015 we've signed 15 new leases totaling 41 megawatts and extended seven leases totaling 12 megawatts of critical load which is 0.5 megawatt away from our best year of new leases signed.
That was the 41.5 megawatts we signed in 2012.
I'm optimistic that 2015 will be the best year for megawatts leased in DFT's history.
And now over to Jeff to discuss the financials.
Thank you Chris.
Good afternoon everyone.
I want to cover five main topics today: an update on Net Data Centers from ACC2 our third quarter results a capital markets update our increased 2015 guidance and last our dividend.
First an update on Net Data Centers.
Since our last call we continue to receive 83% of all-in Net's revenues from its customers that are located in our four data centers.
The decision to allow Net to remain in our data centers after rejecting our leases was beneficial to DFT.
Through our revenue-sharing agreement which began on July 1 and ended on the closing of the sale of Net's East Coast assets on October 20 we received $3.6 million from Net.
Recall that Net's East Coast assets are located in our ACC4 and ACC5 VA3 and NJ1 data centers.
In August a potential buyer placed a bid on these assets.
The bankruptcy court mandated an auction which was held on September 24.
Four bidders emerged for these assets.
The winner was ANEXIO data centers [ANEXIO Technology Services].
On October 20 ANEXIO entered into leases with us at each of our four data centers totaling 4.13 megawatts of space and 38 852 computer room square feet.
Given that Net's leases were well above market the base rent on the new leases decreased 34% per kW month on a cash basis and 18% per kW per month on a GAAP basis.
The rent decrease combined with less kilowatts being leased by ANEXIO resulted in the ANEXIO leases generating $0.085 cents of annual revenue compared to $0.16 for the Net leases.
As noted in the earnings release we now have 2.13 megawatts of additional available critical load in three of these four facilities.
We will market the additional critical load received in ACC4 and ACC5 to current customers.
It's a great fit as we're able to move this additional power into other computer rooms within the same phase of the building.
With the additional 1.13 megawatts we received in New Jersey our available critical load is now 8.7 megawatts.
Given the lower density requirements within this market we estimate that three megawatts to four megawatts of load can be leased before the computer room space is fully occupied in Phase I.
The design of our electrical infrastructure will enable us to move the remaining power into Phase II.
We are very happy especially me to have this portion of the Net bankruptcy matter resolved and look forward to building a strong relationship with ANEXIO as our trusted data center partner.
Now on to ACC2.
As Chris mentioned we signed a new lease with an existing super wholesale customer for the entire 10.4 megawatts of critical load at ACC2.
This lease is expected to commence in the first quarter of 2016 after the completion of some minor buildouts estimated to cost about $2 million.
The new lease has a 15-year term with early termination options at years five and years 10.
To terminate early the customer would have to pay a penalty.
For GAAP purposes this lease is a five-year lease.
At the end of Yahoo!'s lease including below market amortization ACC2 is generating $0.055 per share of FFO quarterly or $0.225 per share annually.
Under the terms of this new lease ACC2 will generate $0.20 of FFO per share annually.
The $0.025 decline is due to the cessation of the amortization of below market value lease contracts.
As reported in the earnings release cash base rents declined 41% upon the re-lease of ACC2.
This decline is specific to the ACC2 data center and should not be extrapolated to the portfolio.
Given higher operating costs at ACC2 base rent had to be decreased to make it market competitive.
As we've previously discussed this data center was fit for super wholesale customers only.
The operating expenses at ACC2 are 75% higher than our ACC4 through ACC7 data centers given ACC2's much smaller size.
The cooling costs are significantly higher than our current data center designs.
On a total cost of occupancy basis the new customer will pay as much at ACC2 as a super wholesale customer would at ACC7.
Also for ease of comparison to our peers starting in 2016 we will report cash and GAAP changes upon renewal and re-lease on a full price basis which means we will include operating expenses in the analysis.
If we did that for the ACC2 re-lease the cash decline would have been 31.4% and the GAAP decline would have been 9.6%.
Next on to our financial results.
Our third quarter 2015 normalized FFO was $0.62 per share the high point of our guidance.
Our normalized FFO increased $0.02 per share or 3% compared to the third quarter of 2014.
AFFO for the quarter was $0.68 per share compared to $0.64 per share for the same quarter of 2014 an increase of $0.04 per share or 6%.
The increase was primarily due to the increased normalized FFO and the add back of straight line receivable collected from our bankrupt customers.
Quarterly revenues were a $115.3 million an increase of $9.8 million or 9% from the prior year's quarter.
This increase was the result of new leases commencing.
This leads me to our capital markets update.
During the third quarter we did not purchase any shares under our $120 million stock repurchase program.
We have $88.1 million remaining under this program through the end of this year.
Stock buyback is one of several options as we continually monitor the markets for the best uses of our capital uses consistent with our objective to maximize shareholder value.
As previously disclosed we increased our unsecured line of credit from $560 million to $700 million.
As of today there are no borrowings on this facility.
With our cash on hand free cash flow after dividend payment and our line of credit we have abundant capacity to fund our current development without the need for additional sources of capital.
I'd now like to discuss our fourth quarter and revised full year 2015 guidance.
We're increasing the low end of our full year 2015 normalized FFO guidance by $0.07 per share which increases the midpoint by $0.03 per share.
The new range is $2 per share to $2.47 per share compared to last quarter's range of $2.38 per share to $2.48 per share.
The increase in the midpoint is a result of healthy leasing in the quarter generating additional $0.01 per share and $0.02 per share from lower interest expense from increased capitalized interest.
The low end of the range assumes no additional leases or commencements other than the pre-leases in phase II of ACC7.
The high end of the range assumes additional leases are commenced in the fourth quarter.
Our fourth quarter 2015 normalized FFO guidance range is $0.60 per share to $0.62 per share a decrease of $0.01 per share at a midpoint versus the prior quarter.
The small decline is primarily a result of ACC2 being vacant in the fourth quarter which was partially offset by new lease commitments including the release of Net's Data Center space and lower interest expense.
Now on the AFFO we increased the low end of our full year AFFO guidance range by $0.07 per share in the high-end by $0.01 per share.
This increases the midpoint by $0.04 per share.
The new range is $2.63 per share to $2.67 per share compared to last quarter's range of $2.56 per share to $2.66 per share.
This midpoint increase is the result of raising normalized FFO guidance by $0.03 per share and lowering our estimates of our operating properties' CapEx by a $1 million.
Our fourth quarter's AFFO guidance range is $0.60 per share to $0.64 per share.
The midpoint is a decrease of $0.06 per share from the third quarter results.
The decrease is due to ACC2 being vacant in the fourth quarter 2015 which is a $0.05 per share impact and an increased estimate of capitalized leasing commissions due to our near record leasing success.
And I'll wrap-up today with the dividend.
On October 15 we paid our quarterly dividend of $0.42 per share.
The anticipated 2015 annualized dividend remains at $1.68 per share.
This represents an estimated AFFO payout ratio of 63% at the midpoint of our current guidance.
As our AFFO continues to grow this dividend should grow accordingly.
With that let's go straight to questions.
.
Our first question comes from Colby Synesael at Cowen &amp; Company.
Great thank you.
I appreciate that  well first off congratulations on the quarter in getting so much work done between now and end of the quarter as well.
In terms of my question I appreciate at the Analyst Day you're going to give us a lot more color.
But how quickly now that you already have board approval how quickly will you put whatever it is you've decided on in place and we think everybody assumes that there's going to be some market expansions tied to this.
I think you're already looking at those  you've already decided which they are.
Can we see you actually doing something around that as early as the first quarter or is it going to take more time? And then my second question I'm not familiar with hoping I pronounce it correctly ANEXIO.
Can you just walk was through a little bit about who they are what their credit quality is and just give us some assurance they won't be in the same situation just a year down the road that we were just with Net Data Centers? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Colby it is Chris.
Appreciate the question.
I'll answer your first question about the plan right.
We're excited to present the strategic plan to everybody on November 10th but we've been working on a lot of things that we're going to unveil in the plan behind the scenes.
So there's a lot of work that's gone on already.
I'm not really going to talk about what we're going to announce until November 10th but I can assure you that there is a lot of work that's gone into it and we've been proactive since we received board approval in working on the next steps of executing the plan.
Your second question is about ANEXIO.
Just to give you a little color on ANEXIO they are a large scale IT provider that provides cloud services and managed services.
They have three locations one in North Carolina one in Florida and one in Metro and Metro New York.
They just obviously acquired the Net assets.
So they have a customer base.
We think there is a strong opportunity for them to leverage their existing customer base to sell into the New Jersey New York market for data centers.
They have a small data center footprint as it is now.
This is going to help them put managed services on top of that data center footprint.
So we are excited about working with them.
They have a great management team and we are committed to their success.
Hey great.
Thank you.
The next question is from Manny Korchman at Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey guys good afternoon.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Manny.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> If we were to look at your portfolio sort of overall right now and mark the rest of your leases to market would we still be seeing those cash rent roll downs are we sort of at the tail end of that and what we've seen was the last of those types of big roll downs? Hey Manny it's Jeff I'll take this.
As part of our strategic planning process in building out our model for the next five years we took our leases so we take a look at every lease in our portfolio to determine the mark-to-market.
We compared the ending cash base rent of every lease to what we thought the market would be at this time.
And we basically escalated the market 3% a year for wholesale 2% a year for super wholesale.
Based on this we're forecasting a mark-to-market of a 9% reduction in our base rent over our entire portfolio starting in 2016.
And I have a lot more details to present on this at our Investor Day but it's nothing close to what we've experienced here in the last quarter.
And I do just  let me put in context the mark-to-market events we've had so far this year.
Now we had ACC2 which was a cash decline of 41% of base rent 31% if you put the OpEx in the calculation.
Net sale to ANEXIO was about a 33% decline but for all the renewals we did this year the 12 megawatts renewal cash actually increased 4.5%.
So we've been very successful when we retained the customer of getting our rents driven upward.
The net of all this for the year is about 20% decline in base rent and we feel that's an anomaly based on the two specifics of ACC2 and also the Net situation.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And if we look at the ACC2 lease you mentioned it was with an existing customer.
Are we going to see a big increase in the top tenant schedule or was it a smaller customer that's now just growing faster? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well this was not our only lease in the quarter.
We were fortunate enough to get 26.5 megawatts of leases capture new one logo ANEXIO.
So this lease with an existing customer was 10 megawatts out of 26 megawatts.
So I don't expect to see an increase in our top 10 account concentration.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
That was it from me.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jordan Sadler at KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks good afternoon.
I wanted to follow-up on sort of the customer line of questioning obviously you were very successful in the quarter  post quarter with the volume.
And I'm curious if you could sort of speak to the nature of the type of demand that you're seeing.
And maybe if you could characterize the depth of the market here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Jordan it's Chris appreciate the question.
I mean when we talk about demand we're seeing a tremendous amount of demand in our core markets.
I mean since I've started the funnel has significantly increased.
I mean if you take a step back and you look at Microsoft's announcement on their Office 365 product growing 70% year-over-year you have Amazon with 78% growth year-over-year you take a look at Microsoft's Azure product and compute usage it's up triple digits.
So the cloud is really having a serious impact on what we're seeing in the market in Northern Virginia.
An interesting statistic that I just learned 70% of global Internet traffic runs through Loudoun County and we believe that we are the leader in the Northern Virginia market.
So when you look at all the trends that we're seeing in the state they're all positive and we're very optimistic about our future.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And the customers  I didn't hear are you adding new customers? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We added one new customer for the quarter but the 12 megawatts was from an existing customer and also the 10.4 megawatts was from an existing customer.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay so basically 22 of the...? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Correct correct.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay okay were from existing customers.
Do you see the opportunity  or I mean in the funnel are there other customers out there that are of like scale? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> There are and we're working on some MSAs with some of those customers right now as we speak.
So there are other customers out there like this that have the profile.
But when you look at really where we're seeing growth it's those hyper scale providers companies that are consuming a lot of compute type of resources in data storage.
And we're at the very early stages in this game and I think we're going to see significant growth but there are others out there that can consume like you've seen from our existing customer base and we're talking to them.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just one other here on the leasing.
Something obviously came together for you to get all this volume done.
I'm curious obviously must have been a function of availability and demand right place right time but also I'm curious any changes in the lease  you've given us some color on rate.
So I think we've got an idea but on lease structure? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No the lease structures for all of these leases are our traditional leases.
So we haven't had any changes.
But the one thing I don't think it's luck.
If you take a step back and you look at our operations team I believe that we have the best operations team in the business and some of the best facilities in the business.
And there's a reason why these large customers come to us.
It's the reliability of our services.
They sleep better at night knowing their infrastructure is in a DFT data center.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
No I didn't mean to infer that it was luck.
I know that you have to have the space available and somebody has got to need the space obviously.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Having inventory is important that's why we talked about the 39 megawatts of expansion.
We feel it's important for us to have inventory in those core markets.
When you look at Chicago when you look at Northern Virginia they are Internet hubs quite frankly.
And whether it's cloud whether it's over the top providers whether it's mobile data all that stuff that's happening within a data center.
Inc.</span></strong> Well it's notable some folks have said it's better to be lucky than good.
But (30:57).
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's what my college basketball coach said.
Inc.</span></strong> And then I have one last which was  I didn't catch this Jeff if you gave detail on ACC7 the 1.49 megawatt renewal extension.
What happened there exactly and why the reduction in the lease rate? Sure.
The customer that took 6 megawatts in ACC7 had an existing lease there and they were so happy with the service they wanted more megawatts and wanted to extend that existing lease.
By them buying 6 megawatts we gave them a little better price than we gave for their original lease.
So at the time of the renewal we just matched that pricing.
Inc.</span></strong> Is that a super wholesale price? No it's a wholesale price.
Inc.</span></strong> Wholesale price.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Jordan.
Your next question is from Fred Moran at Burke &amp; Quick.
Thank you.
Were the 30%-plus price reductions to resolve NDC and have a timely leasing of ACC2 a bit more of a discount than you expected and necessary because of such having immediate resolution or is there anything else hindering pricing and does it say anything about difficulty leasing super wholesale space in general? And then secondly can you just help me understand how that big price reduction for ACC2 only translates into a two penny drop from $0.22 to $0.20 in FFO annually? Sure Fred.
It's Jeff.
I'll try that.
So let's start with Net.
So Net I had hinted in prior calls at about a 30% over market price for Net.
So the 33% was basically right where we expected it to be.
For ACC2 the Yahoo! space that was re-leased we had talked on prior calls that about a 20% decline and the way that was derived is I said each quarter Yahoo! generates $0.05 of FFO for us.
And we expected upon re-lease that would go down to $0.04 of FFO.
Those were cash figures and the $0.05 to the $0.04 is a 20% decline.
It really went to $0.035.
Of course the $0.05 did include operating expenses.
So including operating expenses there was a 31% decline.
So we missed by about a half a penny there.
And that was really for the reasons I outlined earlier that the higher operating expenses and cooling costs really came into fore in the negotiations as our customer was comparing ACC2 to ACC7 and other space available in the market.
We had to reduce the base rent little bit more than we predicated in order to be competitive.
And did you have anything else? Yeah just in general what about indications for current demand levels for super wholesale? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Fred it's Chris.
We're seeing a lot of demand.
I mean when you look at some of the opportunities that we're seeing in the marketplace and some of the requests we're getting from potential customers they're fairly large.
I mean so when you look at it we're optimistic about our future based on our pipeline.
So Chicago as I mentioned before we announced expansion in Northern Virginia.
We're working on phases and rolling out more capacity.
And that's I mean that's driven by demand.
So we're seeing a lot of demand for our product in the marketplace and we're very optimistic about our future.
Excellent.
Thank you.
The next question is from Matthew Heinz with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks good afternoon.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Matt.
Hey Matt.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> So we've heard a lot of talk recently from your peers surrounding enterprise hybrid cloud and multi cloud adoption.
And while I can appreciate that you're not involved in the carrier-dense space I'm just kind of wondering if you've seen any traditional enterprises in your pipeline that might be looking at using your suburban campuses or generally just wholesale buildings to tether in to a carrier hotel to kind of create that kind of deployment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well you do see people using our buildings and tethering into a carrier hotel for connectivity.
I mean that's been happening for years.
So that's not something that's just occurring.
But when you talk about cloud I view us as one of the largest enablers of the cloud.
When you look at those environments they're happening within our data centers.
So when you look at large enterprise customers when you see the migration to cloud it's more for test and development type applications.
You're not seeing them move their critical workloads to a public cloud right now at least we haven't seen that.
I think most of you know that I've a background in cloud.
So for us the critical applications are still happening in data centers.
I think when you see that migration to cloud and you used the term hybrid it's for those smaller customers that have two or three tablets in a retail co-location provider's facility where it is actually more cost effective for them to be on a cloud environment.
But the one thing that you have to take into consideration also with cloud if you're operating a workload 365 days a year seven days a week 24 hours a day cloud is going to be three times as much.
So there is a lot of things that we're seeing in the space but we're continuing to see cloud grow within our facilities.
And I have a slide which I'll roll out to you guys during our Investor Day that talks about cloud workloads and shows you the market opportunity for cloud workloads.
And we believe we're the largest enabler of cloud out there right now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
That's very helpful.
And then my follow-up is specific to the Chicago market.
You've certainly been aggressive there in terms of expanding the outgrow of campus.
And from what we've heard there seems to be quite a bit of new supply coming on from competitors in the next 12 months to 18 months.
I'm just wondering what you are seeing in terms of the demand funnel that gives you confidence to go ahead with the next phase of CH2 and plans for CH3 moving forward.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Matt.
I think the numbers speak for themselves.
I mean we opened up CH2 and the first phase was sold out within four months.
So I think the numbers speak for themselves.
And we don't just do things without having a pipeline.
We have a solid pipeline and we're seeing a tremendous amount of demand in that market for our product.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And is there any sort of I guess first mover or first mover advantage or race to finish inventory ahead of some of the bigger deployments? I think there's a 20 megawatt building coming on in the suburbs probably early 2017.
Is there any  is that a consideration for you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I wouldn't say it's a consideration.
I mean for us it's  we know that customers or potential customers like our product.
They love our operations team and we know it's important for us to have inventory in those critical markets and we believe Chicago is a critical market for us to have inventory for those opportunities when a customer comes to us and says they want 5 megawatts and where do you support it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks guys.
Look forward to Investor Day.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Matt.
Thank you Matt.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Appreciate it.
Your next question is from Rob Stevenson at Janney.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Rob.
Hi good afternoon guys.
You talked a little bit about the development before and starting the next Chicago phase.
Can you talk a little bit about when it looks like you'll start next Santa Clara building and phase IV of ACC7 and when do you need realistically go to your Chairman Vice Chairman and take down the next parcel in Northern Virginia for ACC9 or whatever it's going to wind up being? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll address Santa Clara first I mean in order for us to start Santa Clara we're looking up for a prelease.
So we've done a lot of the preliminary work on Santa Clara phase 3.
It's a 6 megawatt  16 megawatt facility on about five acres of land that we have out there.
So the one thing that we're evaluating with some of the things that we have in our plan is we want to make sure that we get the highest adjusted risk return.
So actually so we're looking for something that's really stable for us.
And we want to make sure that  again I want to reiterate it's the highest adjusted risk return so or lowest risk return I mean for lack of a better word.
It's definitely highest risk adjusted return.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm sorry a little bit (39:51).
So we're looking for the best returns simply because that's one thing that we are taking into consideration.
The next thing is ACC9 as you mentioned.
And we're already into contract for 34 acres in that market.
We've done a lot of the pre-work on that.
So based upon demand and what we're seeing in the market that's when we will announce ACC9.
So we're not there yet.
But we do have a contract that has not closed for 34 acres in that market.
So we're close and we've done all the preliminary work for ACC9.
So we can move very fast once that closes.
We talked about ACC7 phase IV that's an additional 8 megawatt of capacity that we could bring online and again a lot of that's to be determined based on the demand we see in the market.
We have a lot going on in our development pipeline right now with the 39 megawatts that we're going to be bringing to the market.
So as we fill up our existing space that's when we will take a look at actually adding more capacity.
So we're optimistic that we have enough capacity coming on line to help us through the next 12 months to 14 months.
Okay.
And then as a follow up Jeff what's the thought about the preferred you basically have one expire one redeemable and another redeemable next year where is pricing for you guys today you think relative to where those are and that are likely swapped or takeout in terms of common or debt? Yeah.
The series A Rob we could take out at anytime right now at par.
We're past the five-year no call period.
And those rates are 7.875% and we'd really be looking for 7.25% or less to take that out so we can get at least a five-year payback if not shorter on the cost of taking that out and issuing new.
We would reissue preferred via preferred for preferred swap.
The series B or 7.625 so the rate needs to be even lower than that to move on that issuance.
So right now the rates seem to be little bit higher than where we need to be.
But we are monitoring them and have a couple of our preferred experts taking a look at the markets every day and we'll be notified as soon as there is an opportunity to go into the market and get the proper rates.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Next question is from Jonathan Schildkraut at Evercore ISI.
Great.
Thanks for taking the questions and congratulations on cleaning up a lot of noise from the story certainly sets the deck up for your Analyst Day.
Just two questions if I may.
First I'd like to come back to the customer concentration.
Jeff maybe if you could just sort of walk us through where because you guys started to breakout top 10 customers.
I think top your four customers are something like 60% of revenue.
What are the top four customers are going to look like and I think that before that included Yahoo! so maybe we can talk about the top four and get a better sense what it looks like top three I guess excluding Yahoo!.
And then secondly you guys broke out the returns on the capital that you're putting out there for some of the new facilities on a GAAP basis.
I was wondering if we can get those numbers on a cash basis.
Thanks.
Sure Jonathan.
So page 13 of our earnings release has our top 15 customers and at October 1st before the 26 megawatts leasing we just did Microsoft was first at 22.7% Facebook second at 19.9% Rackspace third at 10.3%.
So when you add all that up you've got the top three around 52% 53%.
Like I said earlier I'm not really looking for any change in that based on the leasing we signed in October.
Yeah Yahoo! has dropped out at number four at 7.5% and what that's made up of is ACC4 which they've already sub-leased to one of our existing customers but there are still the tenant of record.
And NJ1 they have a small 1 megawatt lease there.
All right very helpful.
Okay.
And the second part of your question I'm sorry.
The 13% return on a GAAP basis and I was wondering what that looked like on a cash basis? Yeah on a cash basis cash starts out lower than grows to be higher than the GAAP returns.
At ACC7 there one of the customers there had a ramp that's burned off.
So I would say cash is getting pretty close to GAAP and at Chicago they really weren't any ramps there.
So cash will be very close to GAAP.
Great and just as a follow-up in terms of not having real ramp periods around some of these larger customers.
I assume that goes to improvements in net effective rents.
Has this been a sort of trend that you are seeing broadly within your leasing volumes the ability to move away from those free ramps? Yeah that's really been happening since 2012 when we introduced the super wholesale rate.
The super wholesale rate doesn't have a ramp.
So for 50% or so of our leases since 2012 we haven't had ramps in there.
And then we've been moving away from them as much as possible from our wholesale customers.
All right.
Great.
Thank you for taking the question.
Thank you Jon.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Jonathan.
.
Our next question is from Jon Petersen at Jefferies.
Great thanks guys.
Curious so the one new tenant that you had this quarter was that the six megawatts in Chicago? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No that was ANEXIO.
ANEXIO the 4.13 megawatts.
Oh that's your new customer.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
Got it never mind then.
And then on your  you mentioned the 9% roll down mark-to-market on your entire portfolio.
I was just curious is that a cash basis or a GAAP basis just curious for modeling purposes? That's cash.
GAAP is almost nonexistent.
Do you mean like you're basically flat? Yeah.
Almost flat.
Okay that's all I had thanks.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Jonathan Atkin at RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
So a question about share repurchases and then I had a question about kind of supply in your four metros.
And you did repurchase in first quarter in the low $30 range and the stock did go down to kind of mid-$20s back in September.
I'm just wondering why you didn't repurchase stock at those levels? And then the other question I had is from a kind of operations standpoint if you could give us a sense of the competitive environment across each of New Jersey Virginia Chicago and Santa Clara in terms of where there was more versus less multi megawatt competitive supply out there in terms of inventory today? Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks Jonathan.
On the stock repurchase we're going to talk more about this at Investor Day so I don't want to give away much.
But by going into some new markets which we've talked about is our goal of our strategic plan we're preserving our capital to invest in development.
And that's really the reason for not making any additional purchases under the repurchase plan.
I'll turn it over to Chris on the market standpoint.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Jonathan.
I'm going take you through market by market and answer your questions the supply and demand and what we're seeing in those markets.
So I'll start New Jersey first.
I think everyone on this call knows that it's probably our underperforming market.
Jersey is a market that there is a lot of competition and right now it is somewhat over supplied.
So it's a trend that you're seeing.
You don't see the large wholesale deals in New Jersey that you would see in Santa Clara Chicago and Northern Virginia.
We'll take a look at the Northern Virginia market next.
We do believe it's an undersupplied market and there's a lot of opportunity for us in the market.
Pricing is stable.
It is competitive but we feel we have a very strong product in the market and a leadership position.
So we believe that supply and demand dynamics are in our favor.
Chicago is an another market very similar.
It's an undersupplied market.
Again we believe the supply and demand dynamics are in our favor.
Pricing is fairly stable as you can tell by the returns that we got that we talked about in our prepared remarks.
And the last market is Santa Clara.
I do believe that Santa Clara is still an undersupplied market.
A couple years back it was grossly oversupplied.
But we are seeing a trend right now that there is a real land grab in that market.
And that's one of the reasons that we want to pre-lease for SC we call Santa Clara phase III.
That's important for us because we want to make sure that we have a tenant before we actually go out and spend that CapEx.
We're going to be very smart on how we spend our capital.
But overall the supply and demand dynamics are in our favor and we're very optimistic about the future.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Welcome.
Our next question is from Young Ku at Wells Fargo.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Young.
Thank you.
Hey Chris just a quick question that 9% portfolio mark-to-market is that based on super wholesale market rents or wholesale market rents? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's a combination.
For each customer we did it lease by lease and if they are a super wholesale customer we assume that they would convert to super wholesale rates at the end of lease.
If they're a wholesale customer they would convert to wholesale lease rates.
Okay.
And are you guys seeing that difference between super wholesale and wholesale gap increasing or has that gap kind of tightened over the past couple quarters? It's remained quite steady since we introduced super wholesale in 2012.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah even our leases this quarter.
I mean subsequent to the quarter it's about a 50-50 split between super wholesale and wholesale.
I see.
That's helpful.
And just one last question in terms of the expected yields the 13% GAAP yield if you were to go in Santa Clara and perhaps New Jersey how would the yields be in those markets? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Santa Clara for the phases one and two of that building we got 9.2%.
New Jersey we haven't announced the number but it's safe to say it will be below our 12% target when we fill up that building.
For Santa Clara phase 3 we'll be targeting above 9.2% but I don't want to give away where we're at right now.
We'll talk about that at Investor Day.
Okay.
That's great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jordan Sadler at KeyBanc.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Jordan.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey just a follow-up on the balance sheet.
I'm curious how you guys are looking at your capacity when you pro forma or account for the remaining development spend on of course ACC7 and CH2 phases that are underway but then maybe layer in what you've got poised to take down in terms of land in Northern Virginia and then the build in Santa Clara.
What  as you sort of layer in sort of expected expenditures over the next 12 months how does leverage look on a debt-to-EBITDA basis and what your view is your capacity to stay within your leverage targets? That's a great question Jordan.
Leverage today is in the low fours in our upper limit by the rating agencies when you just see net debt-to-EBITDA is around 5.0.
So we do have some capacity today.
Luckily for us with all these new leases we just signed EBITDA is looking it will be growing in to 2016.
So that'll also create more capacity.
So when you look at what we've committed to do so far today we still see leverage in the low fours next year.
But we're going to talk more about that in context of our strategic plan at Investor Day to give you a more total picture once we announced everything we're thinking about.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So based  I guess long story short based what you've got in front of you today what you've announced to-date you've got ample capacity to fund on your existing sort of revolver.
Correct.
Ample capacity on the other revolver and the ability to stay under 5.0.
And we take that 5.0 very seriously just to give you a hint as to what we'll be talking about at Investor Day.
Inc.</span></strong> And then just as a clarification point the  on the preferreds you've obviously got  that's a significant slug of your capital structure.
How do you think about that piece.
Do you like the current sizing today would you want it to be bigger or smaller and just any thoughts there? Yeah I like the current sizing and I'm not really looking to grow the total preferreds that are outstanding.
I mean when we go to refinance those preferreds with other preferreds if there's an opportunity to grab a little bit more we might do it but I don't see any radical change in the mix there.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the conference back to Chris Eldredge for closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks everyone for joining us on the call today.
I'm looking forward to seeing many of you in New York on November 10th.
If you have any questions about the event please give Chris Warnke a call or drop him an email.
Thanks everybody.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the DuPont Fabros Technology Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr.
Chris Warnke Manager of Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for DuPont Fabros Technology's fourth quarter 2015 results conference call.
Our speakers today are Chris Eldredge the company's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jeff Foster the company's Chief Financial Officer.
Certain matters discussed during this conference call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties.
The company assumes no obligation to update or supplement these statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.
Additionally this call contains non-GAAP financial information of which explanations and reconciliations to net income and operating income as applicable are contained in the company's earnings release issued this morning.
The release is available in PDF format in the Investor Relations section of the company's corporate website at www.dft.com.
To manage the call in a timely manner questions will be strictly enforced to only two per caller.
Should you have additional questions you may return to the queue.
I will now turn the call over to Chris.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Hello everyone.
Thank you for joining the call today.
Let me start by saying 2015 was a banner year for DFT.
Here are some of the highlights.
First leasing.
On the last call I mentioned we were approaching record level of leasing for DFT.
In fact we surpassed that benchmark with the most productive leasing quarter in company history.
We signed 12 new leases in the fourth quarter totaling 32.37 megawatts.
This brought our 2015 total to 19 leases signed for 46.83 megawatts.
This exceeded our prior annual leasing record by over five megawatts.
A number of leases were signed in October and disclosed on our last call.
Since then and through the end of the fourth quarter we leased an additional 5.84 megawatts.
We signed the lease for 2.97 megawatts at ACC7 Phase II.
This phase opened 100% leased on December 1.
We signed a pre-lease for 1.42 megawatts at CH2 Phase II bringing the phase to 25% pre-leased.
We signed two leases at ACC5 totaling 1.45 megawatts.
This included a re-lease of space returned to us in 2015 and also power returned from the re-lease of the Net Data Centers space.
We also extended the term of one lease at ACC7 Phase I for 1.49 megawatts.
This extension adds 4.2 years to the term pushing the expiration date to 2021.
During this record year of activity we completed leasing of several phases of development.
We fully leased ACC7 Phase I within 14 months of opening.
We fully leased ACC7 Phase II at opening and we fully leased CH2 Phase I within four months of opening.
On each of these developments we achieved ROI of 13% exceeding our return expectations by 100 basis points.
The strong ROI of these deals reinforces our view that there's healthy demand for wholesale datacenter services.
We averaged GAAP base rent of $101 per kW per month for new leases signed in 2015.
This is a 6% increase over 2014.
For renewals we average GAAP base rent of $110 per kW per month.
This is an increase of 4.5% over prior GAAP rates.
Cash base rent will increase 5.4% versus cash rate in effect at renewal.
Now let's talk about the future.
The cloud media and digital centric market continue to experience explosive growth.
This is well-documented in the recent earnings announcements with tech leaders like Microsoft Apple and Facebook.
Facebook for example just announced they're reaching 1 billion active users per day an increase of 17% year-over-year.
Over 100 million hours of video are watched daily on this platform.
What really caught our attention was the announcement today with double CapEx in 2016.
Microsoft's Azure announced their premium services grew nearly 3x year-over-year with compute usage nearly doubling year-over-year and SQL database usage increasing more than 5x year-over-year.
The growth in this space is staggering and reinforces our view of a future with tremendous upside.
We understand this vertical.
So how do we capitalize our future demand requirements and achieve the double-digit growth we introduced in our strategic plan through calculated well paced delivery of our new developments.
Currently we have three developments under construction scheduled for delivery in the second and third quarters of 2016.
These sites will add 30.1 megawatts to our portfolio.
We targeted a 12% unlevered ROI on these developments which if achieved will result in $36 million of additional EBITDA per year once these developments are fully leased.
In the Chicago market CH2 Phase II is scheduled to deliver in the second quarter of 2016.
This will bring an additional 5.7 megawatts online of which 25% is pre-leased.
CH2 Phase III will bring an additional 12.5 megawatts to market in the third quarter of this year.
Moving to Ashburn we anticipate delivering ACC7 Phase III in the second quarter of this year.
This will bring 11.9 megawatts of new capacity to our portfolio.
As demand dictates we can develop Phase IV for an additional 7.9 megawatts of capacity.
This will complete ACC7 with total capacity of 41.6 megawatts.
Demand in Northern Virginia remains strong.
To maintain our market leadership position here we just closed on 44 acres of land adjacent to our Ashburn campus.
We intend to build ACC9 ACC10 and a powered based shell on this newly acquired property ensuring capacity to fulfill increasing customer demand.
So now let's talk about future growth for new markets which we introduced at our Investor Day in November.
First Toronto.
We are in active negotiations for a parcel of land located inside the greenbelt.
We continue to target Q1 2018 for delivery of our first base in this underserved data center market.
Our second prospective market is Hillsboro Oregon a suburb of Portland.
Hillsboro offers a favorable tax environment in its enterprise zone.
With few remaining sites left for development we are negotiating an agreement to purchase a parcel of land there.
Our third target market is Phoenix Arizona where there are many attractive land options for data center development.
Once we finalize the land purchases in Toronto and Hillsboro we will focus on development sites there.
As you may have read last month we are now marketing our NJ1 data center for sale.
As we move into the execution phase of our strategic plan it became clear to us that selling the asset now made sense.
First selling NJ1 fits our strategic commitment to wholesale.
Our wholesale customers tell us New Jersey is not part of our future requirements.
Power costs and tax rates in this market have driven large scale users to other locations.
By contrast this market is better suited for retail users with smaller space requirements typically in the 5 kW in a higher range.
Second a sale now allows us to accelerate our expansion into new markets while maintaining our dual balance sheet goals specifically to not issue equity and to stay under the 5x net debt to EBITDA ceiling.
NJ1 is a first class data center.
We've developed strong customer relationships there.
Since we announced this news there's been considerable interest in the property.
We've hired an investment bank to represent us and run the sale process.
We believe this will support timely completion of the NJ1 sale on terms favorable to the company.
In summary our leasing for 2015 and more specifically the last quarter was exceptional.
The 32.37 megawatts secured in the fourth quarter added to our first second and third quarter results provided the highest level of annual leasing in company history.
We enter 2016 with terrific momentum.
We have tremendous confidence in the prospects for leasing our new data center capacity under development.
With that I will now turn the call over to Jeff to discuss the specifics of our financials.
Thanks Chris.
I want to cover four main topics today.
Our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results the capital market and development spend update our dividends and our 2016 guidance.
During the fourth quarter we incurred a loss of $1.23 per share which included an impairment charge of $1.52 per share related to the decision to market NJ1 for sale.
The impairment charge was $122 million and write-down NJ1 to its estimated fair value.
Excluding the impairment charge earnings were $0.29 per share compared to $0.28 per share the prior year.
This increase was due to new leases commencing in 2015 partially offset by ACC2 being vacant in the fourth quarter.
Our fourth quarter 2015 normalized FFO was $0.61 per share the midpoint of our guidance.
Our normalized FFO increased $0.03 per share or 5% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 despite ACC2 being vacant in the current quarter.
Normalized FFO for 2015 was $2.46 per share compared to $2.39 per share in 2014.
AFFO for the quarter was $0.60 per share compared to $0.62 per share for the same quarter of 2014 a decrease of $0.02 per share or 3%.
The decrease was primarily caused by a smaller add-back of straight line revenue due to Yahoo!'s ACC2 lease expiration and higher capital expenditures due to timing.
Quarterly revenues were $115.9 million an increase of $7.9 million or 7% from the previous year's quarter despite ACC2 being vacant for the quarter.
For the full year 2015 revenues were $452.4 million.
This is an increase of $34.8 million or 8% over the prior year.
Cash generated from operations in 2015 was $255 million an increase of $10.5 million or 4% from the prior year.
After paying our common and preferred dividends we generated approximately $90 million of cash in 2015 which was used to partially fund our development.
A quick comment on same-store results.
Same-store was negative in Q4 due to the ACC2 vacancy.
We are forecasting same-store to be positive in Q1 as the new ACC2 lease has commenced.
Same-store same capital is forecasted to be positive in Q2.
This leads me to our capital markets update.
As of today we've borrowed $40 million under our unsecured credit line leaving us an additional $660 million available.
During the fourth quarter we did not purchase any shares under our 2015 stock repurchase program.
This program expired at the end of 2015 and we did not seek reauthorization by the board as we'll use our cash and borrowing capacity to fund the strategic plans.
With our cash on hand available cash after dividend payment and our line of credit we have abundant capacity to fund our current development without the need for additional sources of capital.
Now let's discuss the dividend.
On January 15 we paid our quarterly dividend of $0.47 per share a 12% increase from the prior quarter.
The anticipated 2016 annualized dividend is $1.88 per share which represents an estimated AFFO payout ratio of 67% at the midpoint of our current guidance.
As our FFO and AFFO continue to grow our dividend will also.
I now would like to discuss our full year 2016 guidance.
The full year 2016 normalized FFO guidance range is $2.65 to $2.85 per share.
The midpoint of $2.75 per share is $0.29 higher than normalized 2015 FFO an increase of 12%.
This is due to the following: higher operating income excluding depreciation amortization and G&amp;A of $0.56 per share of which $0.37 is from leases that have already been executed.
This is partially offset by higher G&amp;A of $0.06 per share due to the investment in G&amp;A we discussed at our Investor Day.
After this increase G&amp;A is still below 5% of revenue which leads all data center REITs.
Also we expect interest expense to increase $0.21 per share due to funding our development plan and increases in rates on our variable rate debt.
The assumptions for 2016 guidance are disclosed in today's earnings release.
Here are some of the highlights.
Both the higher and lower end of the range include $0.08 per share from the current leases at NJ1.
This is $0.02 per quarter.
The low end of the range assumes no new leasing and the high end includes $0.19 per share of revenue from leases that have not yet been signed as of today.
Both ends of the range forecast opening CH2 Phase II in April ACC7 Phase III in June and CH2 Phase III in July.
Revenues were forecasted to be $500 million to $520 million.
The midpoint of the range implies 13% growth over 2015.
EBITDA margins will be about 62% to 63% and our cash flow after common dividend and before development spend is forecasted to be about $95 million after taking into account the 12% increase in our common dividend.
Our first quarter 2016 normalized FFO guidance range is $0.66 to $0.68 per share.
The midpoint of the range is $0.06 per share higher than Q4 2015.
This is primarily due to the commencement of the new ACC2 lease on January 1 and the opening of ACC7 Phase II 100% leased and commenced on December 1 2015.
Our full year 2016 AFFO guidance range of $2.70 per share to $2.90 per share.
The midpoint of the range is $2.80 per share which is 6% higher than 2015.
The 12% increase in normalized FFO did not fully roll down to AFFO and this is due to a three-month rent abatement ramp in our new ACC2 lease the 2015 accounting for Net Data Centers which resulted in $0.06 per share of collections being applied to the straight-line receivable instead of revenue and increased CapEx in operating data centers of $0.03 per share.
This is due to the project at ACC2 to configure the data center for the new customer and timing of capital projects given the very low level of CapEx we've experienced over the last two years.
Our first quarter 2016 AFFO guidance range is $0.64 to $0.66 per share.
The midpoint is $0.05 per share higher than Q4 2015.
AFFO in the first quarter of 2016 is forecasted to be lower than normalized FFO primarily due to the ACC2 rent abatement.
Before we get a question I want to take a moment to recognize DFT Investor Relations pro Chris Warnke.
He has done a terrific job telling our story and keeping the Street up to date on DFT's performance and prospects.
When I became CFO he worked patiently to bring me up to speed on the IR aspects of the job.
He's been an invaluable right hand for me.
Tomorrow he leaves DFT to begin a new adventure.
He goes with our thanks and appreciation for a job well done.
Now let's go straight to questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Listen I just had two I guess because that's the maximum allowed but one is I just wanted to get a sense as to what's going on in demand in the marketplace broadly speaking.
I guess one of the things that we've been seeing is that there seems to be a concentration of large footprint demand and just a handful of players.
A lot of those are your customers and just wondering what you're seeing out there in sort of the marketplace.
And then second question I guess Jeff you gave us a $0.19 of benefit at the high end of the range from incremental leasing.
Can you translate that into megawatts? Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll take the first question.
Jonathan how are you doing? When you talk about demand you're right.
The hyperscale guys are obviously there's a tremendous amount of demand.
We've all read the recent earnings announcements of companies like Facebook that are going to be doubling CapEx in 2016.
Microsoft Azure platform is growing.
I mean SQL database is growing 5x.
Azure revenue grew 140% year-over-year.
So there is specific markets that have a high concentration of demand.
And we feel that we're in a lot of those major markets.
It's Northern Virginia and Chicago and Santa Clara.
So we're very bullish and very positive about those markets and future demand requirements in those markets.
And Jonathan this is Jeff.
First thanks for being compliant with the two question max only.
On the $0.19 potential spec revenue I noted in the guidance I don't want to tie it to a specific number of megawatt because it's really more important when the leases are executed and commenced than the actual number of megawatts for this year.
But just to recap today we have 1.5 megawatts available not counting New Jersey and we're going to put on 30-megawatt of developments during the year.
So I think 31.5-megawatt would be the upper end of the range and we don't really want to speculate on the bottom end.
Thanks for the questions.
I'll circle back.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Jonathan.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Atkin with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi.
This is actually Bora Lee for Jonathan.
I was wondering if you could provide a bit more color on how the nature of your customer discussions have changed now that you're offering more inclusive leasing conditions rather than strictly triple net.
And my second question is could you comment on the competitive environment in Chicago and Santa Clara and how you would characterize overall demand in those two markets? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
I'll take the  about the lease conditions.
I think it's been very positive.
I mean the customers  our existing customers that have triple net leases understand it they like it.
One of the things we've talked about at our Investor Day why we introduced the full-service lease is because we spent a lot of time explaining the value of our triple net lease to new customers and it's slowed down the sales process.
So from our perspective some of the new prospects that we're talking to it has been very positive to us.
And obviously with the full-service lease there's going to be a risk-adjusted return there too as well to make sure that we're getting the desired return.
So it's been very well received in the market.
Your second question is about demand.
And two specific markets you mentioned we believe are still undersupply and that we're in a very good position from a supply and demand dynamics perspective.
So there's a lot of opportunities out in the market there's a lot of growth in the space and we're very optimistic about our future.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Manny Korchman with Citi.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
So Chris I appreciate your comments on New Jersey and the reasons for exiting that market.
I'm just curious what happened in a call it month a month-and-a-half or two months following the Investor Day that made you sort of change your opinion on going from being committed to the market and hiring CBRE to help you lease there to saying you know what this doesn't fit our strategy especially since you had spent so much time looking at the overall strategy going into Investor Day? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We hadn't made a decision by Investor Day to sell the property.
I mean the work with CBRE was great.
We had a depleted pipeline.
We filled up the pipeline.
And unfortunately in the fourth quarter we had two opportunities that we lost quite frankly to other markets Manny.
They went to markets that had lower power costs and also had favorable tax benefits.
And it's somewhat of a recurring theme in that market.
So as you know based on our Investor Day we announced that we have made a strategic commitment to wholesale and the decision for us to sell New Jersey helps us accelerate development in new markets with the prospects for better use of our capital.
I mean we have great customers in New Jersey.
It's a great asset.
And what really confirms that is the overwhelming demand that we've seen our level of interest in the facility.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> If you had to characterize the pool of buyers maybe by type or by the sources of capital what would that be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's a combination of both public and private REITs.
It's technology companies and it's private equity firms.
The interest has been overwhelming.
That's why we went out and made the decision to hire an investment bank to help us with the process.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And then in terms of entering the new markets here in your guidance page you note that there's probably going to be some capital spend in Toronto but you don't mention the other two new markets.
Does that mean that a Toronto entrance might be 2016 followed by Hillsboro in 2017 and then the third market thereafter? Is that the right way to think about it? Yeah Manny.
It's Jeff.
I mean the way we laid it out at Investor Day is Toronto would come online Q1 of 2018.
We're still on track for that.
And that we were going to select between Portland and Phoenix and bring one of those on around 2019.
I think if we're successful on selling New Jersey and we're able to recycle that capital we can speed up Portland or Phoenix and have that some time in 2018.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So you look at those opportunities more as a capital constraint or a demand constraint? And if a capital constrain why won't you just use your other liquidity to go into the market if you have the demand? I'd say it's more of a capital constraint and we made a commitment one to issue no equity and two to stay below five times debt to EBITDA.
And if you just look at the list of the developments we anticipate in 2016 and the fact we're going to spend about $300 million something had to be slowed down in order to not break that debt limit.
I think with New Jersey if it generates the proceeds we're hoping for we can then speed one of those developments back up.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks Jeff.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael with Cowen &amp; Co.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks.
First off on the $0.19 of potential growth from new leases just wanted to confirm does that assume that the three facilities that you're currently working on Chicago 2 ACC7 and Chicago 2 Phase III  those are 100% leased when they open? And then I guess somewhat similar to the question that was just asked one of the things that came up at the Analyst Day was that while there's expectation for strong growth in 2016 that based simply on the capacity to which you have to sell that we could see a fairly material slowdown in 2017.
With everything that's going on right now what leverage do you have to potentially pull to smooth out the effect if you will as we go into 2017? At 96% utilized today it's just hard to see where the additional growth will come from after those three facilities.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah.
In your first question Colby we did not forecast that all three developments we're bringing online this year will be 100% pre-leased.
That'll be a little aggressive.
We do expect substantial leasing on those developments by the end of 2016.
With your 2017 question it's a very astute one.
In 2017 or late 2016 I would expect we would bring online ACC7 Phase IV or another 8-megawatt.
And if we're successful with Santa Clara Phase III in getting the pre-lease we desire at the return we desire that could also come online in 2017 but that's really what we're looking at right now.
We also have a chance of ACC9 now that we've acquired our land in Ashburn.
We are rapidly moving toward developing that piece of property and that could come online in the latter half of 2017 also.
And that (29:00) megawatts.
Sorry Colby.
Sorry I don't mean to interrupt you.
But just the ACC9 in the CapEx that would be required to fund that and again kind of based on those targets for staying below five turns and then also the no equity is that a manageable option? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes it is.
And that's built in to our guidance that ACC9 Phase I and the third Chicago building Phase I would start this year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Fred Moran with Burke &amp; Quick.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Chris and Jeff first congratulations on the execution in 2015.
Very well done.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Fred.
Absolutely.
In terms of Ashburn how does that ACC9 and ACC10 development pan out relative to Toronto Portland et cetera? How do you look at it vis--vis allocating money first or faster relative to demand? And specifically do you have some information on what kind of capacity you'll be bringing on from ACC9 and ACC10? And going beyond that how much more capacity could you add based on land that's available in the area of the campus there? Fred this is Jeff.
You have a lot of questions built in there.
I might not remember them all.
But the way we think about the capital allocation is we have enough funds available staying below our debt limit to continue to bring on capacity if needed in Chicago and Ashburn and also finish out another Phase in Santa Clara if we got the pre-lease we desire.
We also have enough capacity to get going in Toronto.
What we didn't have enough capacity to do was to start in Portland and Phoenix right away and that's where the sale in New Jersey could help out.
ACC9 Phase I as Chris indicated is currently estimated about 14 megawatts.
I don't have the exact size of the building because we're still working through that.
But I tell you that it's going to be a little bit smaller than ACC7.
And ACC10 would be similar size to ACC9.
Additional land that we own we do have an ACC8 that we think that 10-megawatt powered based shell or build-to-suit to be built on and we just acquired another piece of land that we haven't even put an ACC number on yet but maybe 11.
That would also be able to do a small powered-based shell.
That's perfect.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
Question about the demand and the increased CapEx that we're seeing from large cloud players and others and how their increased guidance or better than expected guidance on capital spend are factoring in to your decision matrix vis--vis new development? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Jordan.
It's Chris.
As we talked about it at our Investor Day we're very close to a lot of our existing customers and as the cloud grows they grow with us.
One of our objectives is to be one of the largest enablers of cloud.
And we're seeing tremendous demand from those hyperscale providers that we talked about.
So we're very bullish.
That's one of the reasons why we're trying to do these developments as quickly as we can because there is that level of demand in Chicago and Northern Virginia.
So one of the things that we feel is very important is for us to have supply in these markets to satisfy that demand.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
So when you say to do these developments as quickly as you can does that mean your willingness to build spec has increased at the margin? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean obviously when we go into Toronto there's going to be  I'm bringing that market up specifically there's going to be a level of spec because we're telling you that the facility is not going to come online till the first quarter of 2018 right? But there's been ample inquiries about it and a lot of our existing customers are interested in it as well as new customers.
So as we get closer and closer to opening the facility we think there's a strong possibility that we're going to have a pre-lease for those locations.
And Jordan to give you some historical perspective that goes beyond with how long Chris has been here I mean our desire to put back out there has increased compared to three years ago when the market was seeing some very difficult pricing.
We've seen pricing recover and we've seen 10-megawatt deals in Ashburn and Chicago.
Sometimes we didn't have 10 megawatts to bid.
So in order to win the type of deals that are out there we do need to do a little more spec than we've done in the past.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then this is a follow-up.
Specific market to your Santa Clara I didn't hear a ton about.
I'm curious what the prospects look like there what's the latest there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The prospects look good.
I mean there's been a lot of interest in customers expanding in that market.
When you look at the Santa Clara market there's a lot of development going on right now because it's an underserved market.
You look at Vantage there was a 10-megawatt deal that was taken down in that facility.
So we're very bullish on the market and optimistic.
But as Jeff said earlier on one of the things that we require for the development is at least at a minimum a 10-megawatt pre-lease with a return threshold much higher than we got it for.
But we're still optimistic that we're going to be successful with the development in that property.
Inc.</span></strong> 10-megawatt pre-lease there.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Heinz with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Matt.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I was just hoping you could update us on some of the initiatives laid out at your Investor Day specifically regarding partnerships with integrators and consultants to sort of uncover opportunities and new customer verticals and maybe how conversations are trending with a couple of the hyperscale cloud providers that are not currently utilizing DFT.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean that's one of the reasons why we brought in a new Head of Sales.
So he's got tremendous experience working with alternative means of distribution.
So I would say the conversations have gone pretty well.
But with any type of sale especially as large as the sales that we typically make there's a sales cycle and a process.
But it's been very very positive.
And those hyperscale providers the potential new hyperscale providers have a lot of demand in the marketplace.
And some of them we're working on agreements with right now and that's MSAs.
And that's not concrete agreement to buy space from us but we're trying to get through the Ts and Cs so they can potentially start looking at our facility.
So we're bullish.
When you look at Northern Virginia there was 63 megawatts worth of deal flow in the market let alone last year and we think that's going to continue forward.
So it's really important for us to work with some of those new hyperscale providers because I think we all read the recent earnings announcement.
Their growth has been tremendous.
And the cloud is going to continue to grow.
And as we clearly stated at our Investor Day we want to be the largest enabler of cloud in the space.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then just as a follow-up in terms of NJ1 given that you know the building better than anyone else I'd appreciate if you could give us some more color on maybe how the asset could be best leveraged by another provider and maybe just the magnitude of capital investment that might be required to fully retrofit the building retail use.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the building should be  when you look at the building in general when you take a look at it from a square footage perspective there's two phases two 18-megawatt phases.
And right now it's 52% leased from a power perspective and 70% from a space perspective which to someone in the industry it shows you that it is more of a retail market.
So we think with the power density in the building there's the ability to shift the power that's not being utilized in the first phase to the second phase of that building.
That's why there's been a lot of inquiries about the facility.
I'm not exactly sure about your CapEx question to migrate the facility to retail but I can tell you this that there's been several retail providers that are interested in the facility.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks guys and congrats to Chris Warnke on the new change.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Rob Stevenson with Janney.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Jeff you've said that same-store same capital would turn positive in the second quarter of next year.
When you take a look at 2017 I mean you don't have much expiring in 2016 from a lease rollover perspective.
But when you take a look at the 2017 and 2018 leases is there anything there that's materially above where market rents would wind up being that would cause it to be thrown back into a large negative position again as we roll forward? Yeah the negative was actually created by a vacancy versus just a roll-down.
You can see once that the lease commences here in Q1 like I stated it will go back to positive.
We did at Investor Day talk about roll-downs in 2017 and 2018 $8 million $6 million range something like that of cash base rent.
So I don't have the figures in front of me to say that would be big enough to throw us for certain quarters back into a negative.
But just from an overall basis when you look at the neck five years and we have over half of our portfolio rolling in the next five years we predicted at Investor Day that same-store would be positive and cumulative over that five-year period.
Okay.
And then beyond the land purchase that you guys just did in Northern Virginia I mean and looking for land in the new markets I mean how aggressive are you guys pursuing land right now in Santa Clara and Chicago for the future? This is Jeff.
We are looking in Chicago and in the area that we're in Elk Grove Village is made up of a lot of warehouses and our current CH3 land is warehouse land.
So I think we'll be successful in locating something either adjacent or nearby.
In Santa Clara it's pretty land constraint right now so we've focused more on a new western market being Portland or Phoenix.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Dave Rodgers with Baird.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
Good morning guys.
Chris a question for you.
Obviously you had no acquisitions in your guidance for the year but carriers are pushing more and more data centers out to the market.
Any comments on  have you looked at any of those even small portfolios or single assets to kind of grow around in your targeted markets for new expansion and any thoughts you have around that related to NJ1? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I mean Dave we get calls about every single assets that's on the market.
To be quite honest one of the things that we really focused on is executing on our strategic plan.
That's something that's very important to us.
I think the assets you're talking about are the Verizon assets which the Terremark part of that business is very good.
They have some really good facility.
But for now our focus is on executing our strategic plan getting in Toronto opening up some of these new data centers and really executing as best as we can organically.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then maybe Jeff I didn't hear if you commented earlier but financing plans for 2016.
Any thoughts around how you're going to fund all the changes? Yeah.
Good question Dave.
At Investor Day I talked about funding our development through the line of credit with the thought being at that time we'd run it out to about $400 million of a $700 million availability and then take it out with some permanent bond financing.
Our current thought which we modeled in the 2016 guidance is to only run it up to $100 million $200 million and then take it out through add-ons to our bonds.
And that change is really based on where the market is today.
It's a much choppier market than it was when we talked on November at Investor Day and it just would behoove us in the choppy market to hit it when times are good and get some of the line of credit permanently financed.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Bejjani with Green Street Advisors.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
LLC</span></strong> Good morning guys.
A couple of questions regarding the balance sheet.
So you've expressed a desire to grow and enter new markets but you seemed pretty adamant about not issuing any equity.
So I'm just wondering what do you feel is the right long-term level of balance sheet leverage for your company and how do you approach the equity issuance decision? And I guess related to that to what extent is secured debt an option for you guys? If you could discuss the state of the secured market especially as it pertains to your portfolio that would be helpful.
Okay.
Yeah thanks John.
This is Jeff.
I'll take the balance sheet question.
So yeah we are adamant about not issuing equity.
We believe our equity value will grow as our stock price grows and obviously our leverage will grow.
I think the leverage won't go above five times as we talked about net debt to EBITDA.
The leverage as a percent of equity might grow slightly over the five-year plan.
What was the last part of your question? I'm sorry.
LLC</span></strong> So I guess...
Secured debt.
LLC</span></strong> ...how you approach equity issuance and then the secured market just what are you seeing out there? Yeah.
We have one piece of secured debt today ACC3 has a loan on it.
And really we shifted away from that as our strategy.
We've got more unsecured debt having a pool of unencumbered assets that we used for the unsecured debt and that's what we're looking to do in the future.
LLC</span></strong> Okay.
And then I guess Chris you obviously weren't around when DuPont ventured into New Jersey but what are the takeaways if any from the company's experience there as you look to enter the Toronto and Oregon markets? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's a good question.
The one thing I can tell you is the facility we built for the market was too high dense.
And if you look at New Jersey it's typically lower density type customers customers in the pharmaceutical vertical the financial services so it's a very different market than you would experience in Northern Virginia where you have those hyperscale providers that typically take higher density space.
So I would build a different type of product.
And that  we announced during our Investor Day when we go into these new markets our new design addresses that.
So we'll have that added level of flexibility to add those different types of customers quite frankly that we couldn't secure in New Jersey.
And New Jersey is a market that also as I mentioned before has very high tax rates has very high power costs.
So with our strategic commitment to wholesale it's just not a wholesale market.
Last year in New Jersey there was two megawatts of deal flow in wholesale.
That's two megawatts compared to the 63 megawatts that I mentioned in Northern Virginia.
So for us we view New Jersey as more of a retail market and there's obviously a lot of retail providers having success just on a wholesale market.
Yeah.
Let me add on to that because I was around a little bit for New Jersey.
New Jersey was picked  the IPO strategy was to be in the four biggest markets in the United States New Jersey and New York being one of those.
So I think that was a sound strategy.
The problem as Chris said was the product we put there.
We put a copy of what we put in our Internet markets in Ashburn in Santa Clara and Chicago and it just didn't work in New Jersey.
In our current strategic plan we're having  we're tailoring our product to this market.
So I think it will be much bigger  much better fit and we won't have a repeat of New Jersey.
LLC</span></strong> All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Inder Singh with SunTrust.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks guys.
This is Georgios Kyriakopoulos in for Inder.
Chris help us understand how demand aligns with supply in 2016.
You expect to increased capacity by 30 megawatts in 2016 yet your activity in the December quarter of 32 megawatts suggest that you may need additional capacity.
If that's the case how much flexibility you have to increase capacity within a reasonable timeframe if needed? And then I have follow-up.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean we had a better year last year right almost  nearly 47 megawatts leased.
So we're really proud of that and we're continuing to see that in our pipeline that there is tremendous demand in our markets.
The one thing that we could bring in next year is ACC7 Phase IV which will give us an additional 7.9 megawatts in the Northern Virginia market.
Obviously we  Jeff mentioned earlier on that we have land in Chicago to build CH3.
That's probably going to fall off to the first quarter of 2018.
But right now our biggest challenge is that our customers are coming to us and are taking down our space.
So we're going to have to figure out ways to make sure we can satisfy their demand but I think we're in a good situation that as soon as we build it customers come to us and take it but there potentially may be a gap in 2017.
And just to add on for 2017 I think we can also deliver the first phase of ACC9...
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
...second half of the year.
And if we get the pre-lease in Santa Clara we're looking for we could deliver the third phase of Santa Clara.
I think we can have some pretty robust deliveries in 2017.
They would just be weighted more towards the second half of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> So let's say demand is strong in 2017 and you don't have enough capacity is there an option for you to sub-lease from somebody else even if that's...? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That wouldn't be ideal for us.
Inc.</span></strong> But I'm saying that...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> One of the values that we add we're the only data center provider out there that owns and operates 100% of their data centers and that's something that we think sets us apart from our competition.
We like that level of control and we think it benefits our customers.
And there's a reason why these hyperscale providers continue to buy from us time and time again.
It's the team that we have in place.
They're very comfortable with our operations folks and they have choice and they come to us.
And we're not the least cost provider out in the space.
They come to us because of the strong relationships they have with our teams and we value those relationships with our top customers.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then can you please help us at this time how you're thinking about competition in new markets like Toronto and Phoenix? One of your competitors also announced capacity increases in those markets.
So I was wondering how you mitigate the risk of overcapacity after you complete your expansion.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll talk about Toronto first and we laid that out at our Investor Day.
I mean we still believe it's an underserved market.
I know Allied REIT announced that they're going to do some expansion but they're a developer of urban office space.
We are a pure wholesale data center provider right? Loblaws is another one.
That's a grocery store chain that's selling off excess capacity in their data center.
We've talked to a lot of our existing customers that have strong demand for Toronto.
So even with competition it's always going to be there.
We just want to make sure that we bring the best product to market as quickly as we can to satisfy the demand in the market and we view Toronto as a market that is underserved.
There's a lot of different types of verticals that are in that market and we feel a product like ours will do very very well in that market.
Phoenix is the second market that you talked about.
Phoenix is in our opinion is a little bit more competitive than the Toronto market.
There's publicly traded REITs that have had success in that market and we feel there's enough demand in a market like Phoenix for us to be successful as well as our competitors.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We have a follow-up question from the line of Jonathan Schildkraut with Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thanks for letting me circle back here.
I guess the first question I have is you hired a new Head of Sales not too long ago.
He's come in.
I don't know if he's in the conference room with you guys right now.
But I'd certainly like to get some perspective on anything that you guys have done in terms of changing your approach in working with clients going to market that Brian's been able to implement or any sort of things that he's seen since he's come to the organization? So I'd certainly like to get a little bit of perspective from the sort of new Head of Sales seat or any feedback that he's given you since he's joined.
And then secondly Jeff if you could help us a little bit on sort of longer-term thinking here I think in the past we've sort of modeled you guys adding I don't know 20 megawatts or 25 megawatts a year over a longer period of time.
And just in terms of how you guys think about it and I know you're sort of reacting to market conditions but from a long-term modeling perspective how might we think about the type of capacity that you guys are going to want to deliver? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll take the first question.
Brian is not in the room with us right now.
He's out actually trying to sell.
So we want our sales guy out as much as possible.
And if you know Brian that's what he's really good at.
So the thing about Brian and he's had a real impact on the organization very very quickly.
The guy has tremendous relationships.
He was a top performer at one of our competitors.
He's helping us get into different types of verticals with different types of customers.
He has a different type of perspective on how to run a sales organization.
We're really excited to have him in our organization.
And we think it's going to have a bright future with us at DFT.
And Jonathan on your capacity question.
At Investor Day the plan we rolled out would be about 30 megawatts a year.
But if demand continues to spike like we just saw in 2015 we would have to adjust that plan and get a little more aggressive in our rollout All right.
Well thanks a lot.
And certainly the feedback that we're getting on Brian has been real positive so far so we look forward to hearing from him in the future.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And you will.
But we want him settled right now so the next call I'll make sure he's here.
All right.
Thanks Chris.
Thanks Jeff.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jordan Sadler with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Sorry.
I just wanted to follow-up on the  toward the CapEx guidance that's out there from big cloud players.
Is that  we saw obviously tremendous demand translate into leases signed and CapEx translate into leases signed in 2015 across the sector.
And I'm curious if the spend that's anticipated for 2016 is translating into additional requirements in the market in terms of leases or if that spend sort of relates to leases that have already been signed.
So can you speak to that at all like in terms of what you're seeing in the demand funnel? Yeah.
Jordan I'll start.
I'll let Chris add on.
We really don't know insider CapEx how much is for servers how much is for leasing data centers.
But what we can tell you is our pipeline is still strong with these people who have indicated they're going to really be raising their CapEx.
So I do think some of it is for data centers but it's hard to say how much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Just to add on to what Jeff said I mean I obviously have relationships with a lot of our top customers and they're seeing explosive growth.
I mean one of the statistics that was interesting to me is when you look at Microsoft's Azure platform growing at 140% and SQL database growing 5x.
When you look at database customers were relinquent to migrate their database to the cloud because of security issues.
Now you're seeing critical information and customer data being migrated to the cloud and that platform growing significantly.
So when you look at these hyperscale guys I mean we're at the very early stages of this game.
So obviously some of these hyperscale providers were in our pipelines so we're very bullish on their potential growth in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> When you look at some of these hyperscale players Microsoft is a good example you mentioned and they're pulling their customers especially business customers to the cloud.
Do you see  how do you think about the potential rate of cannibalization versus existing data center space that's already being occupied by enterprises maybe in your data center  maybe elsewhere? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think that  I talked a little bit about that on our Investor Day and I used an example if you're a smaller customer and you have two cabinets in the facility just say you're paying $2 000 a month per cabinet and you have 10 cross-connects your monthly spend is about $7 000 you can cut that spend in half depending upon the application that you're running.
That's why we're so bullish on our space.
As the cloud grows we grow.
As those customers migrate off a retail platform into a wholesale provider facility like ours it fits well with our strategy as being the largest enabler of cloud.
So for us we want a lot of customers to migrate to Microsoft.
As they grow we grow.
Yeah.
Jordan we really believe that cannibalization will occur in the retail space.
We don't see a lot of the large wholesale customers moving their workload in that to the cloud.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Hey one other question just Santa Clara.
Any particular reason you're looking for that 10-megawatt pre-lease in that market specifically? It seems like that market's a  I mean and I understand the return dynamics are a little bit different in that market.
But it seems a little bit differentiated versus what you'd be looking for for a new build in Chicago or Ashburn and of course in Toronto.
Yeah.
Kind of goes back to the spec question.
Yeah when we build on spec we want to do it in an extremely healthy market and be able to get our 12% returns or above.
Now Santa Clara has become a very healthy market but we still don't forecast the 12% return there.
We still think it'll be slightly less than that but much higher than a 9.25% we got on the first two phases.
So on a risk-adjusted basis if we're not going to get to 12% we really want a pre-lease to take our risk off the table.
Inc.</span></strong> That makes sense.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time and I would like to turn the conference back over to CEO Chris Eldredge for any closing remarks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks everyone.
We look forward to updating you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.