Welcome to the Quest Diagnostics First Quarter Conference Call.
At the request of the company this call is being recorded.
The entire contents of the call including the presentation and question-and-answer session that will follow are the copyrighted property of Quest Diagnostics with all rights reserved.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Quest Diagnostics is strictly prohibited.
Now I'd like to introduce Kathleen Valentine Director of Investor Relations for Quest Diagnostics.
Go ahead please.
Thank you and good morning.
I am here with Surya Mohapatra our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Hagemann our Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we make forward-looking statements with respect to both Quest Diagnostics and Celera Corporation.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected.
Risks and uncertainties that may affect Quest Diagnostics' future results include but are not limited to those described in Quest Diagnostics' 2010 annual report on Form 10-K and current reports on Form 8-K.
In connection with Quest Diagnostics' tender offer for the common stock of Celera Corporation Quest Diagnostics and its subsidiary have filed with the SEC a tender offer statement on a schedule TO including the offer to purchase and related documents.
Celera has filed with the SEC a tender offer solicitation recommendation statement on a schedule 14b-9.
You are strongly advised to read these documents carefully because they will contain important information.
Those materials and all other documents filed by Quest Diagnostics and Celera with the SEC will be available at no charge on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
A copy of our earnings press release is available and a text of our prepared remarks will be available in the Investor Relations Quarterly Update section of our website at www.questdiagnostics.com.
A PowerPoint presentation and spreadsheet with our results and supplemental analysis are also available on the website.
Now here is Surya Mohapatra.
Thank you Kathleen.
This was an important quarter for Quest Diagnostics.
We completed our acquisition of Athena Diagnostics and established a leading position in the neurology diagnostics market.
We also announced our proposed acquisition of Celera to further strengthen our leadership position in cardiovascular testing as well as molecular diagnostics products and discovery.
These transactions position us well for the future.
In this quarter we returned $835 million to shareholders through share buybacks immediately enhancing shareholder value.
Our testing volume continued to improve and we increased revenues.
Our earnings were down and we took actions to reduce our cost structure accordingly.
During the first quarter revenues grew 1% to $1.8 billion on 2% volume growth.
Adjusted earnings per share were $1 and cash flow was $161 million.
I will update you on our progress after Bob discusses the financial results.
Bob? Thanks Surya.
Revenues for the quarter were $1.8 billion about 1% above the prior year and adjusted earnings per share was $1 compared to $0.99 in the prior year.
Adjusted 2011 earnings per share exclude $0.14 per share associated with the following items: $0.05 charge for workforce reductions; $0.02 for costs associated with the Athena and Celera transactions; $0.07 impact of severe winter storms.
Our Clinical Testing revenues which account for over 90% of our total revenues were slightly above the prior-year level by 0.3%.
Volume in the quarter was 2% above the prior year and reflects the continued and steady improvement we have seen over the last several quarters.
There are two important dynamics to understand relative to our volumes.
First due to the number of business days in the quarter we estimate the year-over-year comparisons benefited by approximately 1%.
Secondly while we experienced severe weather last year in the first quarter which reduced volumes by an estimated 1.1% this year's  storms had an even greater impact affecting volumes by an estimated 1.4%.
As such weather unfavorably impacted the year-over-year comparisons by 0.3%.
After considering these two items the underlying volume grew an estimated 1.3% versus the prior year and reflects continued improvement.
Drugs of Abuse Testing volumes have continued to rebound and grew about 11% in the quarter and contributed modestly to the improved volume trend.
Revenue from acquisition was 1.7% below the prior year and a little over 1% below last year's fourth quarter.
While year-over-year revenue for acquisition continues to benefit from an increased mix of gene-based and esoteric testing and increases in the number of tests ordered per requisition this benefit continues to be offset by some business and payer mix changes the latest Medicare fee decrease of 1.75% which went into effect January 1 and the pricing changes in connection with several large contract extensions executed in the first half of last year.
The business and payer mix changes which continue to pressure revenue per requisition include a further rebound in lower-priced Drugs of Abuse Testing and weakness in our higher-priced Anatomic Pathology Testing.
Revenue in our Nonclinical Testing businesses which include Risk Assessment Clinical Trials Testing Point-of-Care Testing and Healthcare IT grew 7% for the quarter versus the prior year.
Adjusted operating income as a percentage of revenues was 16.3% compared to 18.1% in the prior year.
The special items as detailed in footnote 2 to the earnings release reduced the operating income percentage by 1.6% in each year.
Adjusted operating income in the first quarter which was below the prior-year level is consistent with what we expected in our full year estimate which contemplates improvement in the latter part of the year.
In the quarter we took further actions to reduce our cost structure resulting in a charge for workforce reductions.
The benefit of these actions will show up in future quarters.
As previously shared with you we've also made recent investments in sales and service which are temporarily pressuring margins but which we expect over the longer term will result in accelerated revenue growth and a return to margin expansion.
We continue to see solid performance in our billing and collection metrics.
Bad debt expense as a percentage of revenues was 4.2% in the quarter comparable to a year ago.
DSOs were 44 days unchanged from year end.
The temporary hold on MediCal billings has added about 1.5 days to our DSOs.
Cash from operations which is generally lowest in the first quarter of the year was $161 million and compares to $239 million in the first quarter of last year.
The difference is principally due to a larger increase in accounts receivable compared to the prior year and the timing of interest payments.
Capital expenditures were $39 million in the quarter compared to $40 million a year ago.
Over the last few months we have deployed or announced plans to deploy a significant amount of capital to drive growth in revenues and EPS.
In February we repurchased 15.4 million shares from GSK for $835 million and as a result increased EPS guidance by $0.15 per share.
In the quarter we announced agreements to acquire Athena and Celera committing net capital of about $1 billion.
The Athena transaction closed in April and we expect the Celera transaction to close later this quarter.
Each acquisition is expected to contribute about 1% to revenue growth this year and excluding charges associated with the transactions are not expected to materially impact our EPS.
These acquisitions bring us unique capabilities in key areas of discovery development and licensing proprietary test offerings and specialty sales capabilities which we expect will be important drivers of our future revenue and earnings growth.
The permanent financing to fund our recent capital deployments was raised to a very successful $1.25 billion bond offering last month at attractive rates while maintaining our investment-grade credit ratings.
Before I discuss guidance I would like to note that we have no further update on the status of our litigation with respect to the California MediCal program other than to indicate we have extended through May 2 our interim agreement with the state which provides for the temporary suspension of MediCal billing.
Turning to guidance.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance as we have previously indicated in considering how 2011 will unfold you should generally think about our earnings comparisons to 2010 being more favorable in the back half of the year as the year-over-year comparisons become less challenging.
We expect results from continuing operations before future special items as follows: revenue to grow approximately 2% reflecting a 1% increase from the impact of the Athena acquisition; earnings per diluted share to remain between $4.25 and $4.45 on an adjusted basis and between $4.11 and $4.31 on a reported basis; operating income as a percentage of revenues to be between 17.5% and 18% on an adjusted basis and between 17% and 17.5% on a reported basis; cash from operations of approximately $1.1 billion; capital expenditures to approximate $220 million.
Our outlook on an adjusted basis excludes the first quarter impact of severe weather workforce reductions and costs associated with the Athena and Celera transactions.
Footnotes 2 and 6 to the earnings release reconcile the adjusted financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures.
Now I'll turn it back to Surya.
Thanks Bob.
I want to update you briefly on the progress we are making on some of the initiatives we have shared with you previously.
As you have heard we have seen steady improvement in the volume trend.
Over the past year reported Clinical Testing volume growth has gone from negative 2.6% in the first quarter of 2010 to 2% positive growth this quarter.
We are making progress although there is much more work to be done.
We continue to focus on promoting our genetic esoteric and anatomic pathology tests.
Demand for our esoteric and gene-based testing continued to grow at a faster rate than routine testing.
The growth was driven largely by Vitamin D testing and testing for blood cancers particularly our Leumeta family of blood tests both of which had double-digit volume growth in the quarter.
We have announced our service to hospital customers.
We have reduced turnaround time for esoteric testing and deliver commercial excellence.
This has helped drive growth in our Hospital business.
Anatomic Pathology Testing continues to be impacted by physician insourcing.
During the quarter we saw a moderation of the downward trend.
Athena Diagnostics became part of Quest Diagnostics after the end of the quarter establishing us as the clear leader  in the rapidly emerging neurology testing market.
We assume some physicians will realize significant benefits from the transaction including greater convenience and access to a broad range of innovative tests for neurological disorders.
We announced our proposed acquisition of Celera to significantly strengthen our leadership position in the discovery and development of molecular diagnostic products and services.
We will gain immediate access to Berkeley HeartLab Celera molecular products and a strong pipeline of biomarkers for the future.
We are pleased that the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period has expired and that we resolved a number of the shareholder lawsuits related to the transaction.
We look forward to completing our $8 per share all-cash tender offer and adding Celera to the Quest Diagnostics family.
With reference to sales we are seeing steady improvement in our volume trends.
Our sales organization continues to enhance its effectiveness and as we indicated previously we have completed the expansion of our sales force.
As regards to costs in the first quarter we took actions to reduce expenses which we are closely managing to improve operational efficiency while maintaining a superior customer experience.
With regard to capital deployment we have taken strong actions to demonstrate our commitment to use our cash to drive growth and increase shareholder value.
We are building our position in the marketplace.
We were recently honored with the prestigious Edison Award for innovation for our Simplexa molecular diagnostic testing platform on the 3M Integrated Cycler.
We also are proud to be one of FORTUNE's World's Most Admired Company for the fourth consecutive year.
In closing trends and testing volume continue to improve and we increased revenues.
We took steps to reduce costs and drive efficiencies.
We are on track to meet our expectations for the year.
And the Athena and Celera transactions enhance our position for the future and we're excited about the opportunities.
Thank you.
We'll now take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Tom Gallucci from Lazard Capital Markets.
Thanks for all the color.
Just two quick questions.
First one was on revenue.
I think sort of organically you're looking for about 1% for the year Bob.
It was about 1% in the quarter even including the weather impact.
So can you just talk about how you sort of think about the balance of the year relatively speaking? Yes Tom.
I would point out as I said in the prepared remarks that we did get the benefit of about 1% simply because of the timing or the number of business days that we had in the quarter.
So you need to factor that in as you're thinking about the year-over-year growth for the remainder of the year.
Okay so you're really looking at it as more flat in the first quarter? Up slightly.
Right.
But then weather hurt you by a bunch.
So I guess if you'd sort of adjust for the weather it still makes the rest of the year look somewhat with a conservative bias.
I don't know.
Again Tom what we indicated was the impact of weather this year was 1.4% to revenues.
Last year we had severe weather as well.
It was 1.1% impact.
So really we only had on a year-over-year comparison a drag of about 0.3% due to the weather.
Right okay.
And then just on margins I think your prior EBIT margin guidance was for around 18%.
It looks like on an adjusted basis your 17.5% to 18% I'm assuming that excludes some of the items but includes the benefit of Athena which I thought was higher margin.
So can you just help us understand sort of the adjustment in the EBIT margin guidance for the year? And as we've indicated Athena certainly does carry higher margins.
It's a relatively small business compared to our total business.
We're adding this year about less than $100 million in revenues at very high margins.
So it's a positive impact certainly but it's not going to be significant in the year simply because of the size of the business relative to the total company.
And the adjusted number that excludes weather and charges and everything? Correct it does.
And that's all detailed in the footnotes to the earnings release.
Right.
So my only question was why did it seem to come down a little bit? Even though Athena's small it would have helped.
What else is going on there? It's a refinement of our thinking.
I would tell you though between 17.5% and 18% it's still approximately 18% is the way we're thinking about it.
We've just got a little better visibility coming out of the quarter now.
All right.
Don't want to slice hairs just want to make sure I understood.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from Ricky Goldwasser from Morgan Stanley.
So first of all Bob if you can just clarify your comments on the quarterly progression of guidance? I know you talked about EPS ramping up in the second half of the year.
I think consensus estimates for the second quarter are about $1.19 right now versus the $1.07 that you reported in the second quarter 2010.
So are you basically saying that we should temper our second quarter EPS estimates and just model a bigger pickup in the second half? Is that how we should understand your comments? Ricky I'm not trying to give you any specific guidance for any one particular quarter since we don't do that.
But as we've stated now for a while you should expect the comparisons in the latter part of the year to be more favorable than in the first part of the year.
Some of that's reflected certainly in the operating income.
It's lower in the first quarter.
We expected that.
There's a number of things which are impacting the year-over-year comparisons besides just the changes in contract pricing which were negotiated last year.
But there are some things on the cost side which we expect will have bigger benefits in the back half of the year.
Some of the actions that we took in Q4 and again in Q1 will start to show up in the latter part of the year.
Okay.
And then when we really think about Q2 about the operating income expenses I mean is commodity pricing -- is the increasing commodity pricing having some impact in the business that we might have underestimated previously? No Ricky.
I think while there's certainly some pressure on commodity pricing that's not significant.
Most of our supply contracts have fixed pricing for extended periods of time.
And we're not seeing a lot of pressure there.
We are seeing some pressure certainly on fuel costs but that's a small piece of our total costs less than 1%.
And that's not having a significant impact.
It's really as I indicated earlier the fact that some of the actions that we've taken we expect to show up in the latter part of the year.
Okay.
And then lastly I think you talked in the press release about the incremental hit to your -- to the EBITDA lines from the weather.
What was the incremental hit on the revenue line? It was about 1.4%.
That's laid out again in the earnings release.
Last year the impact of weather was about 1.1%.
So again the year-over-year impact is an unfavorable roughly 0.3%.
And Ricky the impact is laid out in footnote 3 in the press release.
You can see some details there.
So the question then the increment -- when we look at those numbers at the incremental at the revenue hit and the operating hit it implies a pretty significant incremental margin on that business.
Absolutely and we've said that historically.
When we lose volume as a result of weather in those situations we're really not adjusting our cost structure.
Folks are still coming in to perform whatever work is there.
And in many cases we actually even pay overtime to get folks out so that they can pick up specimens get them into the laboratory et cetera.
And what you see in terms of the incremental operating income relative to that incremental revenue is very consistent with the way we've historically calculated it.
Right.
So we calculate around 70-plus percent which is similar to 2010.
The question is: once volume comps improve is that what we should see in the upswing? Or is there a reason why the margin is going to be so high that incremental margin that you lose is so high versus the incremental margin that you pick up? Again when you lose volume as a result of weather there's very little ability to impact your cost structure for other than the purely variable costs.
And as I said in some cases you're actually adding some costs to procure that work and get it into the lab because of the challenges associated with logistics and the like.
So the incrementals on volume loss to weather are much higher than you'd expect on any sort of incremental work that we get elsewhere.
Can you quantify that delta? Other than to say it's significant no.
But you should expect that on incremental volume we do see strong drop-downs because again depending upon where it's coming from in some cases we have obviously the cost of testing that's incremental but then you have the additional logistics costs the additional processing costs et cetera.
But historically if you go back and you look at our business and you look at the incremental margins associated with top line growth -- go back I don't know in the last 4 or 5 years when we were realizing low- to mid-single-digit revenue growth we were expanding margins in the range of 0.5 to 75 basis points.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from Bill Quirk from Piper Jaffray.
First question is Bob I was hoping you could give us a little more color on the sources of the volume strength in the quarter.
I guess a two-part question here.
One is can you quantify any impact that we would've seen from the new laws related to the healthcare reform? And then secondly can you give us a little color in terms of how the quarter progressed? Should we by chance see any type of sequential strengthening throughout the quarter? Bill yes I think it's very difficult to quantify any potential impact as a result of healthcare reform and the fact that folks aren't obligated to pay copays and deductibles for certain preventive care.
With that said I think over time that should be a net positive to us.
But at this point it's very hard to attribute anything to that.
I'm not sure necessarily that that's driving physician office visits which at the end of the day probably is the biggest driver of our volumes.
The data that's out there says physician office visits were down versus the prior year.
Not as much as we were seeing last year but they were down about 3% based upon the IMS data at least through the first two months of the year.
And as we look at the volume I would tell you that there's no specific area I can point to other than I did indicate that the Drugs of Abuse Testing business has started to grow again.
But that's having a modest impact on our overall volume growth.
And really what you see when you take out the impact of weather and you take out the impact of the number of the revenue days it is kind of a steady improvement from what we've seen and it's a steady improvement that's been going on now for about five quarters or so.
And so Bob just to follow up there.
So there's no specific comments that March is stronger than February February is stronger than January? Or should we read into that that's exactly what's happening because we are seeing this gradual improvement? Yes I'm reluctant to provide any information on a specific month because one month does not make a trend and we typically stay away from providing any information on an individual month.
Understood.
And then secondly and lastly can you elaborate a little bit on the bad debt comments? Certainly we do expect to see it up a little bit on a sequential basis first quarter over fourth but if memory serves it looks like it just made the largest jump since about 2007.
Well the bad debt is pretty consistent with what we saw last year at this time.
And the first quarter typically has higher bad debt than in any other quarter simply because of the fact that there's more billings directly to patients for deductibles and copays.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ralph Giacobbe from Credit Suisse.
I just wanted to go back to kind of the margin  squeeze and specifically on the SG&amp;A side obviously we saw a tick up there.
Any more color into what exactly's driving that? I know you already mentioned some of the logistic issues around weather.
But anything more into that in terms of that SG&amp;A number? Ralph as we've indicated we've been investing in sales and service which ultimately we believe are going to accelerate revenue and earnings growth.
We've expanded the sales force.
We're improving service levels.
Some of the service levels show up in cost of sales.
Some of it shows up in SG&amp;A.
But those are things that we expect are going to have positive impacts to us as we move forward.
Correct me if I'm wrong the run rate from the end of last year though is there incremental? Because I thought you had said you guys had sort of made the investments and now is that starting to play itself through or are there more than what we had seen the back half of last year? Most of it is the case where it's just playing itself through.
Although I will tell you that we did make some incremental investments in the quarter in new test development and the like much of that's showing up in cost of sales now.
Okay.
And then just to kind of go back to some of your pricing comments before.
So it sounds like it's pretty straightforward in terms of the contract updates obviously from last year.
We knew Medicare -- the Medicare cut was coming through.
And then you just talked about the business and payer mix changes in terms of the drugs of abuse.
So there's -- I mean there's nothing else driving that slightly-weaker pricing.
And so I guess my point is should this be sort of a temporary issue that we start to see the growth in sort of pricing in the second half of the year? And maybe just help us understand exactly when do we anniversary those contract updates? Yes.
We certainly expect that the year-over-year revenue per rec comparisons will improve in the latter part of the year.
The anniversary of the pricing changes made in connection with contract changes last year really start to anniversary in the second half.
Okay.
And then just my last one.
You had mentioned the AP business.
I may have missed it.
Did you talk about -- you said that there was a moderation in the downward trend but can you give any more color on what the actual declines were? Yes.
I did mention that.
The Anatomic Pathology business is a key business for cancer diagnostics.
We saw last year it was impacted through the physician insourcing which is still continuing.
However the rate of insourcing has moderated over the last few months.
Okay.
But no hard numbers around that? No.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment is from Amanda Murphy from William Blair.
Just a follow-up question on the sales force and you talked about this a little bit but I'm just curious.
You've talked about the upgrading of the sales force sort of offset by some reductions.
Can you provide a little more color on how that's impacted your business or your market share to date or how you kind of expect it to going forward? Or is it too early at this point? Amanda first of all it is early.
But let me give you some rationale behind what we have been doing.
We saw last year the number of patients that's going to the doctor's office have reduced.
And you know 80% of our business comes from physicians' office visits.
And I mentioned last year first quarter that we've continued to upgrade our sales force and also we are building specialty sales force.
Now getting sales force means providing new tools providing new training trying to bring people to a particular knowledge level.
But also we have now have specialty sales force to be very close to our customers.
We have a sales force for Physician business we have a sales force for Hospital sales force for cancer.
And as I mentioned through Athena and Celera we'll have specialty sales force for neurological disorders and cardiovascular disease.
The reason for doing all these things is because we have invested money in esoteric gene-based and anatomic pathology to build our competitive differences in cancer diagnostics cardiovascular disease infectious disease and neurological disorders.
And these four platforms with specialty sales force is going to be the growth engine for us in the future.
So I think the major part of our sales force reorganizing is complete and now we are executing the strategy.
However as I mentioned that we see steady improvements in our volume but it is early to say how much exactly we are getting from the sales force.
But as we continue our belief is that the sales force are going to create the differences and then be reason for our growth.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then now that you've got Athena under your umbrella if you will have you gotten  any more clarity on some of the longer-term revenue synergy opportunities? Well nothing more than what we said before.
And obviously Athena 70% of their revenue is patent protected.
They have a lot of tests not only for neurological disorders but some of the tests like SMA and MODY that's going to be useful for the broader customer base.
And we are going through our [indiscernible] plan how to really bring some of those tests to the primary care physicians.
And we expect to do that shortly.
Okay.
Thanks.
And I guess just last one.
You talked about pricing trends year-over-year.
Any way to get any perspective on sequential trends in the pricing metric? Amanda I did give you some indication as to how revenue per rec performed this quarter versus the last quarter.
But generally we don't give guidance for revenue per rec and certainly not how it's going to perform quarter-over-quarter.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question or comment comes from Shelly Gnall from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Couple questions.
I guess first on the pre-employment drug screening.
Can you remind us what the margin on that business how does that compare to sort of the routine and Esoteric Testing business? Yes we've actually never provided specific margins on that but what we've indicated is it's much lower-priced business.
And as a result carries significantly lower margins than the Esoteric business.
Okay thanks.
And can you update us on what percent of the revenues that is for the company as of this quarter? It's generally in the range of about 3% of revenues or so.
A much bigger percentage of the volume given the fact that it's much much lower-priced business.
Would you be willing to share the percent of volume? It's in the range of 6% to 7%.
It's about double the revenue impact because the pricing is about half.
Okay great.
And would you be willing to share how strong the pre-employment drug screening grew? And what contribution that was to volume growth in the quarter? I did indicate in the prepared remarks that it grew almost 11%...
Okay.
I've missed that.
Thank you.
...
in the quarter.
And on a year-over-year basis it's contributing about 0.5% to volume growth which is pretty consistent with the contribution that it's made over the last three quarters or so.
So when you're looking at the sequential volume growth it's not having a significant impact.
Okay.
Great.
Then I wanted to make sure I'm understanding the incremental margin commentary.
So I understood that incremental volumes lost carry a big margin.
And am I correct in understanding that incremental margin -- incremental volumes gained also carry a big margin but just not as big because there are costs associated with bringing in that new volume? That's generally the way it works yes.
Is it fair to say -- I know you don't want to quantify this but sort of doubles the company's standard EBIT margins? Say that again? If you think about the incremental margin on the next patient that comes in the door the next test that comes in the door serves twice the operating margin of the company? Is that a fair way to think about incremental margin on new business? Well it's a long complicated answer.
But if you're looking at the next rec that came in the door you'd see a very very high incremental margin on that.
But generally that's not the way it works.
It's a function of where the business is coming from what territories what concentration of business we already have there what the mix of business is whether it's coming from a new account or an existing account whether or not it's coming from additional tests ordered on a requisition or it's a new requisition.
So all those things impact it.
But certainly we would expect that incremental volumes would have strong incremental margins associated.
Understood.
And then just a quick one.
I understand you've got a 4-gene urinalysis prostate cancer test under development.
Can you give us any update on this test where it is and whether it's expected to be an important test? You threw me off with the name.
4G? The 4-gene.
Oh the 4-gene.
Okay yes.
It's still in development Shelley.
And while it's in development we don't have anything to comment on yet.
But we're pleased with the progress that it's making.
And then when we get to a stage where we have something to disclose we certainly will do so.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Our next question or comment is from Bill Bonello from RBC.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions.
One is just a simple logistics question.
Is there a quarter in which we would expect to see an offsetting impact in terms of the number of days where the business day comparison is unfavorable year-over-year? Bill I don't have this off the top of my head but generally the quarters are pretty comparable.
They vary anywhere typically between being flat and maybe 0.5% or so in any one quarter.
But I think for the most part the rest of the quarters are pretty comparable.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then at the risk of beating a dead horse but maybe coming at it a different way on this margin question I just want to understand the guidance maybe a little bit better.
Doing sort of simple back-of-the-envelope math the guidance seems to imply that operating income is going to be up anywhere from 2% to 5% over the rest of the year the next three quarters.
But on an apples-to-apples basis operating income was down 10% in Q1 despite the favorable business day comparison.
You don't seem to be suggesting that you really expect much in terms of a big uptick in volume.
So just trying to understand sort of how we go from a 10% apples-to-apples decline to sort of a 2% to 5% growth in the rest of the year.
Yes.
Bill there's a few things at play there.
Obviously as we get into the back half of the year the price changes in connection with the contract extensions which were done last year start to anniversary.
So that has an impact.
Additionally some of the cost actions that we've taken in both Q4 and in Q1 start to give us benefit at that point.
And in addition in this first quarter we had a number of cost increases versus the prior year principally related to salaries wages and benefits which will not have the same year-over-year impact in the latter quarters.
LLC</strong> So on that if I can just parse that out little bit I guess I'm what I'm trying to have an understanding is sort of how much of the drag is really just a factor of the pricing and once that comps most of this decline is made up for and how much of it is the incremental investment and we've got to hope that you can get some revenue boost to offset that? Not an exact number but just to give us some comfort.
And Bill I'm probably not going to completely satisfy you with this answer.
But it's really a combination of three things.
It's the price changes anniversary-ing as we get into the back half of the year.
It's also the investments that we've made in sales and service starting to anniversary as we get into the back half of the year.
And it's the impact of the actions we've taken to reduce costs which will start to show up in the latter part of the year.
LLC</strong> Yes that's a good thing.
I sort of missed that part.
Okay.
And then just a separate question.
I know in the past we've asked this about the molecular diagnostics coding initiative.
And it seems like in general you haven't been particularly concerned about it.
I think we asked specifically for Athena and Celera.
But just is there any kind of quantification or further color you can give us on why we don't need to be worried about that? I mean is it -- in other words is it that you look at it and you say "Gosh we're just not worried that molecular diagnostic rates are going to come down when they get CPT codes " or is it more "Look we only get sort of 3% 4% of our revenue from stacked codes and so it doesn't matter that much what happens to the rates?" Well it certainly does matter what happens to the rates.
We get more than 3% or 4% of our revenues from what I characterize as stacked codes.
I mean when you look at what CMS is trying to accomplish it's really the increase the visibility around what's being billed for.
And for those that are billing for more mutations than are necessary or are clinically appropriate to achieve an accurate diagnosis those are the ones that are most likely to see reimbursement reductions when rates are set.
We feel pretty comfortable that what we're billing for is medically appropriate and necessary to achieve an accurate diagnosis.
And as such we're not expecting there to be a significant impact.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And even if it goes in the physician's fee schedule and you have a copay is that just sort of a minimal enough -- Medicare exposure on that is minimal enough that we don't have to get worried about that? Say again? LLC</strong> Well if it goes in the physician fee schedule you suddenly have a copay that you haven't had on these molecular tests.
Am I just to think about that it as look Medicare in general is not that good a deal and so Medicare/molecular testing is just not enough to matter even with the copay? Well Medicare is about 15% to 17% of our total revenues.
I'm not expecting that we're going to see a significant impact to our Medicare revenues as a result of anything that comes out of this.
LLC</strong> And then there's one last question.
In the proxy you talked about Surya's employment contract expires at the end of the year.
I don't know Surya if you can expound at all sort of on how you guys are thinking about -- well first of all if you want to comment on whether that's been renewed.
But more broadly just sort of on how you're thinking about the future in terms of continuing to build out the management team and succession planning and that kind of stuff.
How should we be thinking about the future? Bill good question.
First of all we are very fortunate that we have a very strong leadership development and succession planning in the company.
I share with the board almost every quarter in a private session about people development.
As you know over the years we have not only added a lot of gene-based esoteric testing and anatomic pathology but also we have acquired a number of key people from various companies.
So while I work at mostly at the pleasure of the board I'm very excited about what we are building and I have no plans to do anything else but it's up to the board.
But I'm very satisfied with the people we have and the succession planning we have in our board discussions.
LLC</strong> And as you get bigger and bigger would you give some thought to sort of creating a Chief Operating Officer role? Sure.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from Gary Lieberman from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> In just talking about the volume trends is there any reason that the Drugs of Abuse Testing  is impacted by the weather? Or is it also similarly impacted by the weather to the other tests? Well Gary it does have some impact but generally what we've seen is it's less impacted by the weather than the other business.
LLC</strong> And just out of interest what would be the reason for that? Generally I think what happens is if somebody needs to be tested for pre-employment drug screening that work gets done whereas with some of the other work that we get from physician offices it's lost for good.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That makes a lot of sense.
And then maybe a follow-up question on Athena.
With the deal having closed and the progress that you've made in terms of -- on the sales force front how do you feel about accretion from the deal and maybe any updates in terms of timing and how do you feel about it as you head into 2012? There's really no update on that.
As we indicated we don't expect it to have a material impact to EPS this year excluding charges associated with the deal.
LLC</strong> Then maybe if I could ask it a little bit differently.
What do you see sort as the biggest challenges or the biggest opportunities on the sales force front in terms of eventually driving accretion from the deal? I think as I mentioned Gary that we are getting closer to the customers.
And I know there's a concern in the beginning whether we are investing money in sales is going to pay off or not.
But I am very pleased with the way we are driving different customer and business whether it is Anatomic Pathology or whether the Hospital business or the gene-based business.
And now with Athena and Celera we will increase our customer call points which we never used to call like the neurologist or endocrinologist and even the cardiac specialist.
So again in the investment we continue to execute our strategy and as we move from just a lab company to a diagnostics company now four different specialty offerings again I think that will be our growth as we go forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steven Valiquette from UBS.
Few questions here.
First on Celera.
You mentioned initially the potential dilution should be immaterial for 2011 EPS once it closes.
Just curious how you see things now.
Should we still not expect any adjustments to EPS guidance for 2011 for Celera once it closes? Is that still a safe statement? As we indicated when we signed the Celera transaction we expect it to be dilutive this year by an immaterial amount.
And until the transaction closes we don't really have any further update.
Okay.
One other quick one on Celera to the extent you can talk about it.
One of the things that  didn't really come up on the call last month just curious how much the potential future royalties from the Merck Phase 3 drug for osteoporosis may have played a role in your enthusiasm for Celera.
Was that material in your thought process or is that just kind of a wild card where you'll take it if you can get but you're not counting out? Just trying to get a sense for how you preliminarily at least think about that? Yes.
Without trying to provide any color certainly we considered all of the assets of Celera when we valued the company.
As did Celera and their advisers.
Let me take a question off the table relative to this and that is there's been a lot of question as to whether or not we're going to amend our $8 per share offer for Celera.
The answer to that is no.
Surya has clearly stated in the past that this is our best and final offer.
We think that it's one that fully values all of the assets.
As Celera has disclosed they engaged in a very lengthy process before accepting our offer looked at a lot of alternatives to maximize value for shareholders and viewed our $8 per share offer as the best alternative and in their shareholders' best interest.
I know that you may have seen that there are some Celera shareholders who had been vocal in their views about the $8 per share offer not fully valuing the company.
But I would point out that Celera's advisers considered the potential value of all of Celera's assets in their valuation work.
The offer that they got from us was the best one they received after a lengthy process.
And there haven't been any superior offers that have emerged in the three weeks since the announcement.
And frankly if the transaction is not consummated the Celera shareholders run the risk that ultimately they can realize significantly less for their investment than we're offering.
If this merger doesn't go through Celera operating as an independent public company is going to be facing a number of continued challenges.
First it's operating at a loss and so long-term outlook for the performance of the business has significantly deteriorated.
They've got the challenges of serving  as an out-of-network provider.
And they've indicated their operations were subscale.
And while these are big challenges for Celera as a stand-alone company as part of Quest Diagnostics they're all readily addressed.
So we're excited about the transaction and we're hoping that the Celera shareholders will conclude just as Celera's directors unanimously did that the transaction's in their best interest and offers them the best opportunity to maximize value.
Okay.
That's helpful.
One other just quick one here.
I think I'm almost apologetic at this point for bringing this up again.
But just when determining the lost revenue from weather do you count actual days of closed facilities or is it just guesswork? Just trying to get a sense for the quantification process of the lost revenue in particular from weather.
Yes and it's a good question.
Essentially what we do is we look at the volumes that come through the door every day compared to what we typically see on that day of the year.
We also look at what we believe is normal weather.
Because frankly in our budgeting and the way that we develop guidance we always assume that there's going to be some storms in the winter.
And what we saw last year and this year was significantly in excess of what we'd expect in a typical year.
In fact this year was about  3x what we'd expect in a typical year in terms of lost volume due to the storms.
But when we quantify it we try to play it right down the middle and give you our best estimate as to what we think the impact of weather is net of any potential rebound that might come in the few days following the storms.
Okay got it.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question or comment comes from Robert Willoughby from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Bob anecdotally what drove the other revenue line item growth in the neighborhood of 7%? And can you give us some of the metrics that are ePrescribing customers and medical record customers at this point how sequentially that may have built? I'll give you a little color around the other businesses and then Kathleen can comment on the ePrescribing for you.
But in those other businesses as we've indicated we've got our Risk Assessment business our Point-of-Care Testing business we have a Clinical Trials Testing business.
The Clinical Trials business and the Point-of-Care Testing business has showed nice growth in the quarter but essentially all of those businesses grew in the quarter and contributed.
And on the ePre Bob we saw -- we now saw physicians order prescriptions and medications through our ePre capability at the rate of about $24 million annualized.
And on the EHR which as you know we rolled out last year and it became ECHIT certified in December of 2010 we now have over 2 000 physicians enrolled.
Okay.
And maybe a question for Surya.
Surya you've been cutting costs since the changeover in the United contract relationship here.
I mean at what point do we have to start worrying here that you're cutting into some muscle here with the further workforce reductions? I mean how much more can we really go from a cost-structure standpoint there? Right.
And this is why we have to be very careful actually that we reduce our costs but don't affect our front-line employees and also don't affect the customer experience.
Having said that we learn  every year through Six Sigma and Lean Six Sigma how to really improve.
And we use our size and skills to go after supplies.
So I still believe there is room for our margin expansion.
And we have not given up our 20% operating income margin as a long-term goal.
Okay.
And just Bob quickly on the cash going forward should we assume you chip away at the short-term debt? Yes.
We have some of that actually coming due later this year and some coming due next year.
As you can see on the balance sheet there's a little over $600 million or so that's due within the next 12 months.
One of the notes is coming due later this year and we'll be paying that down.
So retiring not refinancing? Correct.
As we indicated when we levered up or when we actually announced the share buyback and the two acquisitions that for the remainder of this year a significant portion of the cash flow is going to go towards delevering although we have not ruled out any other potential acquisitions.
That's great okay.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from Brendan Strong from Barclays Capital.
Maybe just a couple of questions here for Surya just to start off.
First off I was thinking about what you guys have done over the past six months here.
You ramped up acquisitions so you're making a big investment.
You're making an investment in growth there.
You're making an investment in growth in terms of spending a lot more on the sales force.
I'm just curious I mean is there a change in the business that you've seen that you think indicates that now is the right time to be doing this? Well we have been anticipating changes in healthcare reform and how our company is going to grow both top line and bottom line in the coming years.
So over the last four or five years we've stated our strategies that we're going to invest money in esoteric gene-based testing and anatomic pathology and that's what we have done over the last three or four years.
And then last year or 18 months ago we stated also that we're going to build up specialty sales force because we think our future is in science and innovation.
Our future is beginning in proprietary products to solve the unmet needs of the four disease area which is the growth areas: cancer infectious disease and cardiovascular disease and neurological disorders.
So what you are really seeing is to some extent how we are transforming our company just from a lab company to a diagnostics company now we're getting into the science and innovation.
And we believe for our shareholders and for our patients this is the best strategy and we are just executing our strategy what we said three or four years ago.
Okay.
And then on Celera it seems like an interesting opportunity for you guys to really boost your growth around cardiovascular testing and not just from -- obviously from adding Celera in but from the cross-selling opportunity from the specialty sales force opportunity.
So I guess I'm curious.
As you think out after you -- assuming you guys are able to close on the deal I mean how many quarters out do you think you really start to see the benefit? How are you thinking about that? Well again just before I answer that -- although I don't want to use this word but in every industry there is a time and there is a place where it goes to an inflection point.
And we've been working very diligently over the last two or three years to put the pieces.
And now with Athena and Celera I feel that we have completed a long-term strategy for getting into the disease stage and getting into the next phase of what we call the esoteric and gene-based testing which is basically having a pipeline of discovery which is really going to fuel our further growth.
So we are -- as Bob said that in our $8 per share offer is the best and final.
And I hope and I believe that the Celera shareholders we believe that is the compelling reason to accept our tender.
And as soon as we close we are in the process of integrating.
And hopefully by the end of this year we will be able to help some of the issues Celera had through BHL because some of the operational things is very -- not new to us and we have done that so I'm looking forward to that next year is going to be a very different year because Athena is there and Celera is there and also our science and innovation.
I'm very very excited about the assets and capabilities we have acquired.
And we want to get back to our growth on top line and bottom line.
Okay.
It sounds like what you're saying is you do think that there's going to be some incremental growth around Celera not just from the revenue you acquire but incremental growth in the business once you get into 2012? We are expecting some of the biomarkers that's in the pipeline is going to help us not only in Esoteric business but also in Clinical Trials.
Okay.
And then maybe just the last question on the costs just so I understand it.
I mean in terms of where the costs are coming out of.
Are they coming out in the lab in areas where you just don't need certain costs? And I guess of the SG&amp;A it's not like we're going to see -- it seems like you've made a big investment in sales it's not like we're going to see that come down I don't think.
But if you could provide some details.
Well Brendan as Surya pointed out we used Six Sigma to drive a lot of the cost actions that we're taking because as we take them at the same time we want to make sure that we're not adversely impacting service levels.
And while we're adding on the sales side on the admin side I would tell you that I think there's still further opportunity to reduce costs there.
We've done things like shared services.
There's more opportunities to do that.
Six Sigma is terrific not only in the laboratory in terms of streamlining processes but in a lot of the administrative functions as well.
And we've looked to outsource some of those things we've looked to centralize them put them in shared services and we're continuing some of those activities.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Anthony Vendetti from Maxim Group.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But just on the acquisition front last year was a year where you didn't make many acquisitions and you said that valuations were high and that was part of the reason.
And now you've made two.
What has changed on the acquisitions landscape? And is this indicative of -- are these two acquisitions indicative of others that you're looking to do in this size range or anything out there that's in the pipeline that's larger than these two? Well first of all as we said that any acquisition for us has to fit in strategically and has to make economic sense.
And now you folks can realize why we waited to do the things that was really in line with our strategy to get into new platforms.
Athena was a new platform for neurological disorders.
Celera is a new platform for cardiovascular disease but more importantly in discovery and development.
And we will continue to invest money in these type of acquisitions as we go forward.
Now as regards to other fold-in acquisitions that is a routine task for us and if it is available at appropriate value we'll always look into fold-in acquisitions for lab.
But our focus remains to build up Quest Diagnostics as the most innovative company by investing in science and innovation.
And lastly on the workforce reductions and restructuring in Six Sigma is that largely complete all complete? No.
Again the whole part behind Six Sigma and Lean Six Sigma is continuous improvement.
And as we become bigger and bigger we look for the areas where we can really become more efficient whether it's through automation or whether it is through the workforce training.
And as I indicated that we have not given up on our long-term goal in the margin expansion.
So I feel very comfortable that we have the tools and we have the management to look at and we continuously look at how to really improve our margin.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Kemp Dolliver from Avondale Partners.
LLC</strong> Just brief questions.
Several times you all have referred to investments to improve service.
But I'd just like a little more detail regarding where the investments are going.
Is it essentially expanding call center headcount? Or what specifically have you been doing there? Kemp when I talk about investments to improve service levels it's principally adding phlebotomists and PSCs and customer service folks.
The phlebotomists and PSCs are to address turnaround times improve customer service in those areas and obviously the customer service people are aimed towards doing the same thing.
But we've added a significant number of phlebotomists over the course of the last 12 months or so.
LLC</strong> And where would you say you are in that process? It sounds like you're pretty close to the end.
Yes I would say we are at this point.
I mean it's something that we're always evaluating but the vast majority of that expansion should be behind us at this point.
LLC</strong> That's great.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from Gary Taylor from Citigroup.
Just a few quick questions.
One really just for my edification.
When you guys look at seasonality Bob and you were talking about the plus 1% business day are you only looking at Monday through Friday? Do you also pick up Saturday? Because I'm not seeing that when I look at year-over-year.
I'm glad you culled it out.
But -- Yes we do pick up weekends and it's interesting.
It's a subtle thing.
But what drove it this year is the fact that the New Year's holiday was actually celebrated by most people on the 31st as to the 1st like it was in the prior year.
So that impacted the way we think about the number of business days in the quarter.
Pulled a Monday out of January then basically.
And just in terms of across the week for example for different types of providers there's seasonality across the week.
We have a higher waiting on a Monday Tuesday versus a Friday.
Do you do any of that or are you just looking at a straight week? We absolutely do.
Is that included in your 1%? So it's a little more...
Yes all that's factored in.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then on the sales force expansion that you talked about have you ever told us how many bodies you're actually adding in sales? Or is the net body count not relevant it's the net investment that's relevant? Because you might -- these might be some more experienced folks? I think I did mention that we have added more than 100 people in the sales organization.
Year-over-year? Yes.
And is that -- I know people -- I'm not sure.
I know this has been asked several times.
But will there still be -- if we fast forward two three quarters is that year-over-year body count going to be even higher than 100 or have we kind of hit the run rate? Well again we're adding sales force when we have Athena and Celera.
But what you ought to really look at is we want to increase our operating income.
We want to really reallocate some resources so some resources might go from various parts where there's operations or G&amp;A to sales and marketing.
But we have to do what is really required for us to increase our market position in the marketplace.
And Gary as Surya indicated at the end of last year and I think emphasized again in his script this time that the sales force expansion is substantially complete at this point.
And have you ever told us how many total sales people you have? We have not given that number.
Okay.
And then secondly on the G&amp;A -- I know this was asked and I'm sorry I didn't entirely understand the question.
But G&amp;A up about $10 million.
Sometimes that comes down sequentially but usually you kind of have a modest sequential build through the year.
So should we generally look at that as run rate with some modest sequential fluctuation or is there a reason to look at that differently? Well certainly some of the one-time costs that we mentioned are showing up in there this quarter.
A little over $4 million of the restructuring cost is showing up in there.
A little over $2 million of deal cost is showing up in there this quarter.
So those are certainly things to consider.
But backing those out which I think we did it's still up.
And I guess it sounds like there's not another big adjustment.
Maybe there's some seasonal or quarterly fluctuation but -- or am I just not going to be able to pull anything out of you non that? Yes I'm not going to provide specific guidance around the SG&amp;A percentage by quarter.
But again I would emphasize that a number of the investments that we've been making in sales and service are going to start to anniversary as we get into the latter part of the year.
And then some of the increases that we saw in salaries wages and benefits in this quarter versus the prior year will be less substantial as the year progresses as well.
You just haven't tripped up yet on giving anything quarterly.
You've been asked a hundred ways and you've been consistent.
So well done.
Hopefully the call's almost over.
Last question is on the cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue obviously that's been running a trend up a little more than 100 bps for a while now and the majority of that related to the change in pricing from two quarters ago.
So my assumption is that year-over-year trend excluding the impact of the acquisitions sort of starts to normalize in the back half.
Is there something else in cost of goods pressuring that margin item outside of just the pricing change? Yes well certainly the investments that I talked about in service specifically the phlebotomists and the patient service centers show up in that cost of sales number.
The way you should think about cost of sales is it captures all of the costs associated with obtaining the specimen transporting it to the laboratory performing the testing and resulting out the work.
And the sales investment's in G&amp;A? Yes.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question or comment comes from Sandy Draper from Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
But maybe just one way to come back Bob or Surya on the cost cutting when you look at taking out cost -- obviously six Sigma is a constant thing for efficiency.
When you do something sizable you're going to sort of call out or potentially take some charges for do you view those cuts as more reactionary relative to some economic or competitive pressures or even if they're that size you still look at those as a proactive cut as you're seeing things that are going to be potentially happening down the road? Thanks.
Okay.
Well first for all most of the cost cutting or cost reduction we consider that as continuous improvement.
Some savings goes towards investing in the company some savings goes towards the bottom line.
So there are some reactionary stuff we had to do when we  lost or there is a change in volume.
But most of our expense reduction is proactive and it is a part of the way we run our operations.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question or comment comes from Darren Lehrich from Deutsche Bank.
You've deployed a significant amount of capital on some interesting platforms that really don't add much accretion in the first kind of 12 to 18 months.
What gives you comfort in these platforms given it's a little bit harder to see the reward? How should we generally think about your M&amp;A strategy going forward? Well first of all the M&amp;A strategy in the stated strategy.
We told three or four years ago that we're going to diversify more and more towards esoteric and gene-based and anatomic pathology and that's what we have been doing.
And as you know 36% of our total revenue now is in this high-margin and high-growth areas.
Now of course there are some market dynamics with the changes like in anatomic pathology we are going through a tough time in physician insourcing.
Of course we are working with a trade association for legislative changes in that.
So the way we look at it is to some extent Quest Diagnostics is going towards creating a new Quest Diagnostics where we are really looking at the four disease areas.
And these platforms are the reason why we could say we can serve the cancer patients effectively cardiac patients effectively neurological patients effectively and infectious disease.
Now that gives us the competitive advantage compared to other companies in the United States and our competitors.
So although it is not reflected in this year and we don't give long-term guidance but we are very very excited about the long-term future of the company and our role as the industry leader what we can do for our patients and what we can do for our shareholders Okay.
Last question.
Do you expect the Horizon contract to be exclusive for 2012? I thought it was coming to term.
How are you guys thinking about that? We don't specifically comment on individual contracts.
Individual contracts yes.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our last question is coming from Kevin Ellich from Piper Jaffray (sic) [RBC Capital Markets] I just wanted to go back over the Drugs of Abuse questions Bob.
My understanding is that it has an incremental positive impact on margins when volumes come back.
Is that correct? I know it's a low-priced test but given the high-fixed-cost nature of the business wouldn't that have an incremental positive impact on the margin? Any business that is growing is going to be additive to the margins historically.
Right? The point is that that business carries much lower margins than the rest of the business.
So if you're seeing growth there for example and we're still seeing the AP business decline that's not enough to offset it.
Okay.
I understand.
That's all I had.
Thanks.
Thank you for participating in the Quest Diagnostics First Quarter Conference Call.
A transcript of the prepared remarks on this call will be posted on Quest Diagnostics' website at www.questdiagnostics.com.
A replay of the call may be accessed online at www.questdiagnostics.com/investor or by phone at (866)350-3614 for domestic callers or (203)369-0039 for international callers.
No access code will be required.
Telephone replays will be available 24 hours a day until midnight Eastern Time on May 20 2011.
Good-bye.
Welcome to the Quest Diagnostics First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
At the request of the company this call is being recorded.
The entire contents of the call including the presentation and the question-and-answer session that will follow are the copyrighted property of Quest Diagnostics with all rights reserved.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of the call in any form without the express written consent of Quest Diagnostics is strictly prohibited.
Now I'd like to introduce Kathleen Valentine Director of Investor Relations for Quest Diagnostics.
Go ahead please.
Thank you and good morning.
I am here with Surya Mohapatra our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Hagemann our Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected.
Risks and uncertainties that may affect Quest Diagnostics' future results include but are not limited to those described in Quest Diagnostics' 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and current reports on Form 8-K.
A copy of our earnings press release is available and the text of our prepared remarks will be available later today in the Investor Relations Quarterly Update section of our website at www.questdiagnostics.com.
A PowerPoint presentation and spreadsheet with our results and supplemental analysis are also available on the website.
Now here is Surya Mohapatra.
Thank you Kathleen.
Before we get started I'd like to say a few words about our leadership transition.
Last week we announced that Steve Rusckowski will become the President and Chief Executive Officer of Quest Diagnostics effective May 1.
Also Dr.
Dan Stanzione currently our leading independent Director will become non-executive Chairman at that time.
We are pleased to have someone of Steve's caliber join and lead Quest Diagnostics.
Steve is a strong leader with a proven track record of success.
His experience and expertise will benefit the company as it looks to capitalize on the opportunities that lie ahead.
I know that all of you are anxious to hear about Steve and his plans for the company.
However please hold your questions until after he arrives.
Now to the results.
We had a very solid first quarter.
Our 6.3% increase in revenue was driven by both organic growth and acquisitions.
We generated a 7% increase in earnings per share.
We increased guidance for adjusted EPS to between $4.45 and $4.60.
We saw strong growth in esoteric and gene-based testing as a result of our focus on cancer cardiovascular disease infectious disease and neurological disorders.
In addition we saw improved growth in routine testing.
We also are making good progress in our previously announced $500 million cost reduction initiative aimed at improving operational efficiency.
Let me briefly comment on long-term and short-term market trends.
The long-term fundamentals for our business remain strong.
The population is growing and aging prevalence of chronic conditions is on the rise early detection and wellness are increasing in importance the pace of medical innovation is accelerating and we are seeing much greater engagement by payers employers and patients in improving health outcomes and reducing costs.
However in the short-term the current market environment continues to be challenging.
Published data indicates physician office visits have been weak in spite of mild weather.
Reimbursement pressure from government and other payers continues.
Against this backdrop we continue to execute our growth plans and while we have made good progress we have more to do.
As we have said before our growth strategy is based on 3 factors: One driving innovative new tests and service to improving sales performance and towards strengthening our relationships with health plans and other payers.
Demand for esoteric and gene-based testing continued to grow faster than routine testing.
In the quarter esoteric and gene-based testing grew 20%.
Volume for SureSwab gynecological testing was up more than 50% and ImmunoCAP allergy testing was up more than 10%.
Vitamin D testing also continued to grow.
Anatomic Pathology Testing continues to be affected by physician in sourcing.
However the impact on revenues has continued to moderate.
There have been recent developments which we believe may lessen the impact and potentially reverse this trend over time.
Last week Health Affairs published a study on physicians who refer biopsies to pathology labs in which they have a financial interest.
The study found these physicians billed Medicare for 72% more evaluations but find fewer cancers.
This study highlights the adverse impact of unnecessary procedures on patients and the need for Congress to end the loophole in the Stark legislation that currently allows it.
In addition we are encouraged to see health plans taking actions including changing reimbursement policies related to in-office testing.
In science and innovation we continue to focus on bringing innovative tests to market that will improve patient care and help health lower healthcare costs.
Last week the FDA cleared out new test for C.
Diff a common and dangerous hospital-acquired infection.
This test uses proprietary technique to deliver faster results for hospitals and clinical labs.
Also last month we launched the first molecular test to help physicians detect rejection in kidney transplant patients weeks before conventional tests.
Our renal transplant monitoring test enables doctors to adjust therapy based on each individual's genetic makeup.
It has the potential to improve patient care while helping to reduce the significant cost of failed kidney transplants.
This test is the latest example of how we are driving personalized medicine.
We are the only major laboratory to have these unique end-to-end capabilities from biomarker discovery to laboratory developed tests at LDTs to FDA-cleared IVD test kits.
These capabilities are attracting interest from pharmaceutical companies and resulting in new companion diagnostics and new business.
We are seeing greater traction in our sales efforts.
The sales organization has made gains in important focus areas.
We have returned to growth in women's health testing and are seeing continued strong growth in prescription drug monitoring.
Additionally health plans and employers continue to focus on reducing out-of-network spending and work that's going to high-cost providers.
Some of these actions include: Implementing stronger policies that benefit lower-cost in network providers like us; others include expanding educational outreach to employers and employees to emphasize the importance of using lower-cost in-network providers.
Regarding our cost structure we are committed to reduce it by $500 million over a 3-year period and we are on track.
Now Bob will provide analysis of our performance and then we will take your questions.
Bob? Thanks Surya.
As noted by Surya revenues for the quarter were $1.9 billion reflecting strong growth of 6.3%.
And adjusted earnings per share was $1.07 compared to $1 in the prior year a 7% increase.
The earnings improvement is principally driven by top-line growth.
Adjusted EPS for the quarter excludes $0.05 per share associated with restructuring and integration costs and $0.03 associated with the CEO transition.
Adjusted EPS from last year's first quarter excludes items totaling $1.33 per share associated with the impact of the Medi-Cal charge severe weather and restructuring and transaction costs.
These items are further detailed in Footnote 2 to the earnings release.
Consolidated revenue growth was driven by the acquisitions of Athena Celera and SED which contributed 3.2% to growth in the quarter.
The favorable impact from weather about 2% and about 1% growth in the underlying business.
Our clinical testing revenues which account for over 90% of total revenues grew 6.4% in the quarter with acquisitions contributing 2.8% growth and favorable weather comparisons contributing about 2%.
Volume in the quarter grew 3.4% from the prior year.
We estimate the impact of weather helped the year-over-year comparisons by about 2%.
Adjusting for the favorable impact of weather and the contribution from acquisitions underlying volume growth was almost 1%.
This continues the positive trend which began in the fourth quarter of last year.
The market in terms of estimated physician office visits continues to be soft.
In the quarter the published data reflects about a 2% decline compared to the prior year.
While our most recent improvement in volume is encouraging the year-over-year comparisons are favorably impacted by weather and as such we continue to believe it is still too early to conclude the market has turned the corner.
Drugs of Abuse Testing volume has continued to rebound and grew about 5% in the quarter in line with the growth of last quarter.
Revenue per requisition was 2.9% above the prior year with the improvement principally due to the increased esoteric mix contributed by Athena and Celera.
Note; the impact on revenue per requisition associated with the acquisitions of Athena and Celera will anniversary next quarter.
Revenues in our nonclinical testing businesses which include risk assessment clinical trials testing products and Healthcare IT grew about 6% in the quarter driven by the products business acquired as part of the Celera acquisition.
Adjusted operating income as a percentage of revenues was 16.5% compared to 16.3% in the prior year.
Restructuring integration and CEO transition costs totaling $20 million reduced the reported operating income percentage by about 1 percentage point from the most recent quarter.
Both reported and adjusted operating income percentages were reduced by about 50 basis points due to costs associated with a legal settlement and costs associated with changes in assets held in deferred compensation points.
In last year's first quarter the Medi-Cal charge and other special items together totaling $270 million significantly reduced reported operating income.
Last July we announced a multi-year initiative the goal of which is to reduce our cost structure by $500 million by the end of 2014.
As we shared with you last quarter we expect to deliver about 20% of the $500 million goal by the end of this year with the remainder in 2013 and 2014.
While it is still early in the year we are on track to meet our 2012 targets.
As we've previously shared common themes across most areas include standardizing systems processes and databases increased use of automation and technology and centralizing and selective outsourcing.
The next few years this will require some increased level of capital spending to standardize systems and upgrade IT infrastructure.
We are fully committed to realizing the planned benefits from this program which will not only make our company more efficient but also serve as a platform for accelerated growth.
Currently we continue to produce industry-leading performance in our billing and collection metrics.
Bad debt expense as a percentage of revenues which is typically highest in the first quarter due to increased patient responsibility associated with unmet deductibles and co-pays was 4.2% in the quarter unchanged from the prior year.
DSOs were 44 days compared to 45 days last quarter.
Cash from operations which is generally lowest in the first quarter was $161 million and is comparable to the prior-year level.
Capital expenditures were $30 million in the quarter compared to $39 million a year ago.
During the quarter we repurchased 847 000 common shares at an average price of $59 for a total of $50 million.
We also reduced our outstanding debt by $105 million in connection with our stated objective to delever by $500 million to $700 million this year.
Turning to 2012 guidance.
We now expect results from continuing operations before special items as follows: revenue to grow between 2% and 2.5%; operating income to approximate 18% of revenues; cash from operations to approximate $1.2 billion; capital expenditures to be between $200 million and $225 million; and lastly diluted earnings per share to be between $4.45 and $4.60 compared to previous guidance of $4.40 to $4.55.
Now I'll turn it back to Surya.
Thanks Bob.
In summary we had a very solid quarter.
We are making progress in a number of areas to drive growth and reduce our costs.
We have named a new Chief Executive Officer for Quest Diagnostics Steve Rusckowski with a proven track record.
I will be here through April 30 to ensure a smooth transition.
Finally I want to say how proud I am of Quest Diagnostics and my 42 000 colleagues in what they have accomplished so far and what they will accomplish in the future.
Quest Diagnostics is strong financially medically and technologically.
It's a unique company with a very bright future.
We're now ready to take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Adam Feinstein of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe just get you to talk a little bit more about the margin outlook.
I know you guys have been talking about the 18% and clearly more focused on managing costs and everything here.
But maybe just go through the thoughts in a little bit more detail on the margin outlook and the ultimate drivers.
Adam as generally the first quarter is the lowest margin percentage of the year bad debt tends to be the highest as a result of the higher patient responsibility for co-pays and deductibles.
The volumes tend to be softer than the latter quarters.
And as we saw last year margins continued to improve as we went through the year.
We're expecting the same thing this year.
And if you look at the adjusted margins they did expand from a year ago on what's relatively modest underlying organic growth.
I think we've mentioned in the past that generally we need about 2% organic growth in order to hold margins and offset the inflation that we've got to the cost base and that this year the margin expansion that we are expecting given that we're expecting pretty modest organic growth is really coming from the cost reduction program.
And as we progress through the year we expect to see more benefits from that and we also expect that we'll continue to expand the margins as the year progresses.
Remember too as I pointed out in the script margins the adjusted margins were depressed by about 50 basis points or so this quarter because of a legal settlement and because of the adjustment assets in deferred compensation plans.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just maybe a quick follow-up if I may here.
So maybe just a quick update just in terms of the CEO transition process.
I guess just thoughts in terms of just how the process will take place and what I guess from the outside looking in what does the transition process really entail? So any high-level thoughts? Sure Adam.
First of all Steve Rusckowski is a veteran of healthcare industry and he is not new to what is important for patients and for payers and also for providers.
So we are really excited to have him lead this company.
I have had a number of discussions with him.
He is -- we are helping him to get some material as much as he can read before he comes to the company.
He still has to finish his jobs but I am very pleased with his knowledge and also his engagement so far.
So I think the transition is going to go very smoothly and I will be here until April 30 the last day and he will join on May 1 the first day of his rest of his career.
Our next question is from Dane Leone from Macquarie.
So my question my first question here is on the organic volume growth you mentioned that you stripped out weather.
I was curious did you have an extra day in the quarter from the leap year? And if so what was the effect on volume growth? It's a question a few people have asked and maybe we should have been proactive in addressing it.
But the answer is no.
If you look at the way the New Year's holiday fell this year the New Year's holiday fell in January whereas the prior year it actually fell on December 31 and didn't impact the quarter.
So that's really what's offsetting the benefit of leap year this year.
But wasn't -- If you recall I mean last year we did call out that the first quarter in 2011 we did have the benefit of an extra day as a result of how the New Year's holiday had fallen.
Right but I thought the then Easter Good Friday fall outside of -- in April versus March last year is that right? I think they were both in April.
Yes.
Okay.
On the guidance for the year could you maybe parse out the operating assumption variation for the EPS because looking at the low-end of revenue guidance at 2% around an 18% operating margin and not including any capital deployment for debt paydowns over the remainder of the year for stock repurchases it's a little difficult to get I guess below the high-end of your EPS guidance.
You come out around $4.60 so yes maybe just a little bit more color on some of the variation and assumptions for sales growth and operating line.
As you can imagine Dane whatever model you're using is pretty sensitive to just minor changes in revenue or just a few basis points in operating income.
And we have provided a range for revenue.
We've indicated approximately 18% in operating income which means that it could be slightly below that at the low-end of the range.
And as you noted we're not necessarily expecting the weighted average shares outstanding to be significantly different from last year.
We are doing some share repurchases this year but a little more modest than we would otherwise because of the delevering that's going on.
Next question is from Lisa Gill of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just have a question as we think about your guidance going forward on revenue.
So if we think now about revenue in the second to fourth quarter we're now going to be modeling 1% to 1.5% in order to get within your guidance range.
Can you maybe just talk about your expectations around it's slowing down? Is it just that you dont expect utilization to continue where it is? Or is it something else that we should be thinking about? Well Lisa as you think about our outlook for the back half of the year there's really nothing fundamentally that's changed there.
As you know we're going to have the acquisitions essentially anniversaried in the second quarter.
And when you look at the underlying organic growth adjusted for weather and all the noise that's in there it was around 1% or so this quarter.
We're expecting that over the course of the rest of the year.
As you look out at physician office visits and you see how they performed this quarter it indicates that the market continues to be soft.
So we're not necessarily expecting the market to pick up significantly as the year progresses.
We're expecting it to remain soft and that's what's built into our guidance at this point.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly can you maybe just talk about market pricing in general? There's been a lot of comments out on our side and in the market where people have been concerned about what pricing looks like and what it's going to look like going forward.
Can you just add any comments as to what you're seeing right now? Well I think it's no surprise that we continue to see pressure on reimbursement.
We expect that to continue for the foreseeable future.
And that's frankly one of the motivations behind us reducing costs and launching the program that we did.
But despite that we are indicating that we expect margins can expand this year.
The next question is from Kevin Ellich of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations again on the completion of the CEO succession process.
Surya just going back to the utilization comments and physician office visits remaining weak.
In your prepared remarks you made a comment about routine testing improving.
Just wondering what type of information and analytics you guys have that validates this what's driving it? And I don't know if you can add any more color on the utilization improving? Well I can tell you that there is no one-to-one correlation about physician office visits and laboratory testing.
But having said that there's 100 million people in the United States suffer from chronic disease and 40 million people are suffering from more than 3.
And as you said we invested quite a bit of time and money in training and creating an effective sales force.
And what we are seeing that we are gaining in ground in women's health and some routine testing that goes along with esoteric testings and so all parts of our business are growing and that's actually an early indicator of the investment we have put in sales and marketing.
Research Division</strong> Do you think the improvement that you've seen in women's health and the like is coming from the marketing expanding or market share gains? Again it's a little too early to say but my feeling is that usually we consider diagnostic testing is a very safe industry unlike Pharma and devices where things can go wrong.
This is the safe investment for the investor because it's very steady.
So the market need to grow 4% to 6% a year 2% to 3% in price and 2% to 3% in volume but over the last couple of years my feeling is and what we see is falling flat of 1%.
So in some areas in new areas expanding areas like esoteric and gene-based testing I think the -- we are developing market and market is growing in some areas we are -- started to gain some market share.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Bob I just wanted to clarify the comment to Dane's question about no extra day for leap year.
Is that because leap year -- New Year's fell on Sunday so was Monday a day off for testing? Correct.
That's when the holiday was celebrated.
It was in January whereas in the prior year the holiday was actually celebrated in December.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And then maybe could you guys just expand a little bit on the commercial pricing environment? Do you have any major contracts coming up? And if so could we get an update on that? Well there are no national contracts that are up this year.
We do have one up in 2013.
And we always have contracts smaller contracts coming up in any given year.
But as I said none of the big national ones are up for renewal.
With that said we're always having conversations with the plans regardless of whether or not contracts are up.
And as I said earlier I expect that reimbursement will continue to be under pressure particularly from the health plans.
But on the flip side I think we're making more progress in working with the health plans in driving more work to us to lower-cost in-network providers like ourselves.
So hopefully that will be one of the ways that we're able to mitigate some of the continued price pressure along with what we're doing on the cost side.
Research Division</strong> That makes a lot of sense.
And then could you tell us which contract comes up in 2013 Bob? The CIGNA contract is up in '13.
The next question is from Tom Gallucci of Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> In terms of -- as we think about the organic revenue growth I appreciate your sort of conservative view given one quarter in the bank here.
But just to make sure I understand the numbers Bob you're talking about a little bit under or around 1% I guess adjusted organic volume growth.
And it seems like maybe the deals added acquisitions added a little over 2% to your revenue per requisition so maybe without the deals you're just under 1% as well.
Is that fair? The acquisitions did add in excess of 2% to revenue per requisition driving the vast majority of the increase there.
Research Division</strong> Okay so your adjusted or your organic revenue growth adjusted for weather and whatnot is probably around 1.5% is that a fair rough range? You're not far off yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then could you give us a little bit more on the cost-cutting program? I mean you've outlined some higher-level initiatives but can you give us a little bit more tangible examples of the things you did in the quarter that you're working on right now so we sort of understand what's going on the ground if you will? Yes and Tom I detailed all of these last quarter.
But yes as a reminder some of the things that we're working on certainly on the client support side which include customer service and billing include the leveraging technology to eliminate manual work.
We're implementing more self-service for customers allowing them to supply insurance information make payments online check bill status get test results which at the end of the day the more that can be done online the more efficient it is for us because we're not handling all of those calls.
On the procurement and supply chain side we talked about further consolidating suppliers rationalizing SKUs.
Examples that we gave there were reducing the number of choices for gloves specimen bags labels urine collection cups et cetera.
All of those things are in process at this point.
On the SG&amp;A side we talked about flattening the organization structure simplifying some management processes and beginning to centralize certain activities and consider outsourcing others.
And then on the IT side we talked about moving our connectivity solutions to ones that will not require hardware that we'll need to service in the field it makes the installation more efficient and it makes the cost of servicing that connectivity a lot less expensive over time.
And then we talked about things that obviously are not yet impacting this quarter like the labs and specimen acquisition as we start to look at the lab footprint capacity utilization automation being further leveraged in the labs and the like.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just one clarification Bob if I could.
You had mentioned a couple of other unusual items in the quarter I guess a change in the assets in the deferred comp plan and another.
Can you just highlight that again to make sure we got that? Sure.
One was legal settlement that cost us about $5 million and that impacted margins.
And then we've talked about this in the past as well but not recently and that is the assets in our supplemental deferred compensation plan.
The gains and losses on those show up below the line in Other Income Expense.
And to the degree it's a gain that gain shows up below the line but the offsetting charge shows up above that line as an increase to compensation cost.
It's a quirk in the way the accounting works.
And given that the market had a very strong return in the first quarter it really accentuated that in our results this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that nets each other out.
So you're just highlighting that second one so we can get a better understanding of the actual margin trends.
Correct.
Research Division</strong> And that legal settlement though I guess is an unusual item that would add to your operating profit and your EPS if we wanted to exclude that is that right? Correct if you want it to.
Unfortunately sometimes those do happen and we decided that it was not unusual enough to call out for purposes of adjusted EPS.
Research Division</strong> Okay so those 2 items together are like between $0.01 and $0.02? Actually a little more than that it's about $10 million in total or about 50 basis points.
So closer to $0.04...
Research Division</strong> Well that's to the margin right? But the -- The one item is about $0.02.
All right the next question is from Ralph Giacobbe of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back one last time to the organic growth trends.
On the clinical lab testing side work's sort of shaken out to 1.6 you said volume up about 1%.
Pricing roughly up 50 bps.
And you mentioned sort of the comping out of some of the deals so I guess as we think of the model going forward is that sort of a level that we should be considering when we think of kind of the pricing growth for the rest of the year? Yes Ralph as you know we don't give guidance for the components of revenue growth or the revenue per acquisition or volume.
But yes implied in our guidance for the remainder of the year is about 1% organic revenue growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay can you give us what your what the Anatomic Pathology volume and/or revenue growth was for the quarter? We don't break that out specifically on a quarterly basis but yes as you heard in the prepared remarks it did continue to be under pressure.
It was below the prior year but that impact is starting to moderate.
So it's not as severe as it was.
Research Division</strong> And then just going back to Surya's comments on the health plans changing policies around that.
Can you give us any more color there? I mean is that is it something that's starting in 2012 or what's the magnitude is it one plan is it multitude of plans? Where are we there? Well you know Ralph first of all any changes that will take some time.
But we are very encouraged because the Health Affairs article really show something so critical that the people who have a financial interest they're billing Medicare more 72% and they're finding less cancers.
But apart from that there are lots of effects on patients.
So obviously the plans are very focused on these things.
Some plans are denying reimbursement.
Some plans are reducing reimbursement.
And some plans are asking the laboratory to be clear and approved or CAP accredited.
So these are all good things for the patients and good thing for AP business and we are very encouraged.
I for one know that you cannot do cancer testing without anatomic pathology.
And this is not going to be long before there is potential that this trend will be reversed.
And Ralph it is multiple health plans that are implementing these changes and hopefully now with the health affairs report being out it will prompt others to consider changes.
And frankly I think those changes have been contributing to the moderation of the insourcing.
Research Division</strong> And any more details I mean what are they actually saying? Are they saying it can't be done? Are they monitoring? Or is there preauthorization or what exactly is happening? Some of the [indiscernible] are particularly saying that they will not accept results from the labs which are not CAP accredited.
Ralph what they're doing is they're implementing policies.
So they're notifying their providers of policies and as we alluded in some cases the actions that and the policies that the health plan has implemented is they notify physicians that they'll be denying reimbursement for this discrete range of CPT codes pathology testing CPT codes when they're performed when the claim is submitted from a physician office setting.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just my last one our understanding is that Aetna recently made Genzyme Genetics out-of-network.
Do you guys have a sense at all the potential benefit to you and maybe remind us of your capabilities for those specific tests? Certainly yes if their network is narrowed that's going to be a benefit for us.
And there is nothing that Genzyme's doing that we can't offer today and don't offer.
Research Division</strong> Do you guys have any sense of size? No I don't think that we would start to cull out specific opportunities from other competitors.
Our next question is from Bill Bonello of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So before I have a follow-up question I want to clarify a number that you said.
I thought you said that the SureSwab growth was 50 5-0 percent in the quarter.
Is -- did I get that right? Yes you did.
LLC Research Division</strong> And should I think of that as the rate at which trichomonas volume is growing? Or is that really reflective of a change in the actual collection device but not the underlying test volume? Bill you have to understand that SureSwab was introduced just recently last year.
So we're operating off a relatively small base.
But the point is yes it's a test that's getting some good traction here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then on just back on the operating margin question and particularly on the SG&amp;A.
So it's helpful to get the 50 basis point adjustment that you talked about with the legal settlement and the asset adjustment.
I assume the legal piece was all in SG&amp;A but was the asset kind of split between cost of services and G&amp;A? The 2 items that we talked about impacted SG&amp;A in cost of sales almost equally I would say Bill.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so if even with that stripped out and even with sort of the bad debt if we back that out it seems like SG&amp;A expense is still growing faster than revenue growth which in this time of sort of cost savings initiatives is a little bit curious and I was just wondering if you can talk a bit about maybe what's driving that growth and at what point we might see the same kind of leverage or more leverage on SG&amp;A like we've been seeing on gross margin? Yes well one of the things you need to consider is the impact of the acquisitions that we did.
And I think I was mentioning this several times last year.
The Athena and Celera acquisitions had a very positive impact to cost of sales but increased the SG&amp;A percentage just because of the businesses and the way that they operate.
And you're going to see that SG&amp;A impact as well as that cost of sales impact anniversary next quarter.
But that was driving changes in both of those metrics.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then just on the well never mind I was going to ask can you try and take another crack again at pricing but I think you -- well let me ask it a different way.
You're not going to give a sort of percent increase or project where revenue per requisition is going to go.
But I guess I'm having a hard time discerning from your comments whether as we look forward if we strip out Medicare because we all know Medicare's a big challenge in 2013.
But if we strip that out whether the pricing environment on the commercial side you're actually expecting to get worse over the next 6 to 18 months? Or are you just commenting on what has sort of what has sort of always been a difficult pricing environment? Bill as I think about it it's a very difficult pricing environment today.
I don't expect that to abate and in fact as I've listened to other healthcare providers yes I'm consistently hearing the same thing that reimbursement pressure has ratcheted up and most expected to stay something that is under significant pressure as we go forward.
Employers are looking for ways to reduce costs health costs healthcare costs are a significant piece of that.
They're in turn putting pressure on their payers who are in turn putting pressure on providers.
And we don't see that abating anytime soon.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so I promise this is the last question but just as part of that if we go back to the middle of 2010 you actually had a considerable step down in revenue per requisition because of recontracting and whatnot.
I mean is there something going on where we need to be worried about that kind of a movement again? Bill again I would tell you that yes we continue to see pressure.
We're going to do what we think is appropriate to maintain access here provide competitive pricing.
And I'm not going to get into specifics about what we may or may not do on a particular contract though.
And it also points out...
LLC Research Division</strong> I asked one in different ways.
Bill one other comment is when you look at going back to 2010 if you recall what also impacted our revenue per rec was the change in business mix that's when we saw kind of the significant step down in anatomic pathology revenues which carries a higher revenue per requisition and that decline put pressure on revenue per requisition and we also saw a step-up in drugs of abuse testing.
So you had some business mix impacting revenue per rec trends back then.
Next question is from Darren Lehrich of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of things here.
The first just going to back to the organic growth that's embedded in I guess Q2 throughout the remainder of the year.
Bob I think you said 1%.
So I just want to clarify we can do the math it's implied at around 1%.
Are you including S.E.D.
in that number? Can you just clarify what you're saying here? Yes remember S.E.D.
obviously is included in that number but it's relatively small.
We're talking $20 million to $25 million in revenue for S.E.D.
So when I talk about organic revenue growth with or without S.E.D.
it's still about 1%.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
I just wanted to make double sure what you're saying there.
All right and then the next question I guess is just a couple of strategic ones for you.
The first is I want to just get a quick update on how you're thinking about the market relative to patient service center access points versus embedded client phlebotomists in the office.
And just if there's any notable change relative to what you need to be doing in certain markets relative to the latter which I'm assuming is can be a little bit more costly for you to get that kind of access.
Darren I would tell you that there's no specific trend or development that we're seeing there.
In each case we evaluate what's required market-by-market and respond to that accordingly.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then the other question I have is just relative to your hospital strategy.
We obviously saw you enter somewhat of a new market with S.E.D.
and that seemed to be a logical way by buying a good hospital lab network.
How is your hospital strategy evolving? Should we be expecting more joint venturing? Is there anything that you can say just updating us on the developments there certainly against the trend that we're all seeing of physician employment? Well certainly as we think about hospitals they're going to continue to be important customers for us.
And hospitals are going through some significant changes themselves.
In many cases they're evaluating whether or not they want to continue to be in the lab business and as we saw with S.E.D.
they concluded that that was something that was not strategic to them and that it's better left to someone that's got more experience in that area particularly given the fact that as a hospital I think they saw the reimbursement pressure coming knowing that some of the pricing differentials that exist today may not exist in the future.
And as such it will be very difficult for them to maintain their margins given that their cost structure was higher than ours.
I'm hopeful that we'll see more of that as we go forward.
There are cases as you know where we do have joint ventures in certain markets.
I would tell you that joint ventures are not necessarily a strategy.
Again it's something that's driven by the circumstances in that marketplace the partner that you're talking to.
But I do think that there are opportunities for us to work more closely with hospitals whether it be lab management agreements acquiring their outreach business potentially joint venturing with them.
But each market is a little different each hospital thinks about the way they're going to execute their strategy a little differently.
And I think we need to be flexible in each of those cases and will be.
But rest assured that the hospital market is important to us and we expect to continue growing there.
A lot of our growth actually on the esoteric testing business is coming from sales to hospitals.
Research Division</strong> Great and then just to clarify what you've said Bob is it safe to say that your development pipeline your acquisition pipeline does now include more hospital outreach lab deals? It always has yes whether or not includes -- it's tough to say whether or not it includes more.
It's a pretty dynamic pipeline all the time.
But yes I'm hopeful that we'll see more of those opportunities.
As you know they're -- I think of them as fold-ins we get to take a book of business fold it into our existing infrastructure; we can do that very well.
You tend to get good incremental margins on those types of things and effectively further strengthen the distribution network that you've got.
So certainly to the degree that they're available we will look at them.
At this point though I wouldn't tell you that there's a lot of them in the pipeline or any more than we would typically have.
But hopefully we'll see more as we go forward.
Next question is from Ricky Goldwasser Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Surya best wishes and I can't believe it's been 10 years.
Thank you Ricky.
Research Division</strong> It did go by quickly.
I have a couple of follow-up questions at this point.
First of all on the pricing environment just to get a better understanding of how commercial plans think about pricing when we think about Medicare that's going to be down next year does that automatically impact commercial rates i.e.
what percent of your commercial book prices off the Medicare benchmark? Ricky very little of our business automatically adjusts with very little of our commercial business automatically adjusts with changes in the Medicare fee schedule.
As you know though it's used as a reference point in negotiating contracts.
So that doesn't necessarily help us when we see Medicare reimbursement reduced but it doesn't necessarily automatically trigger a lot of changes in our commercial contracts.
Research Division</strong> Okay so just to clarify it's not as if it's priced off Medicare plus or Medicare minus? Not as a floating amount no.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then secondly on the cost cutting initiative.
I know that you've provided us a lot of detail.
But just so to help us in how we think about modeling going forward what percent should we allocate to cost of goods versus SG&amp;A this year? Yes and Ricky look we've never gotten into the business of giving guidance for cost of sales and SG&amp;A.
We operate the business then manage the operating margin.
And in some cases we spend in one area to further reduce costs in another area.
But what you should expect is that both the cost of sales line and the SG&amp;A line over time will be favorably impacted they what we're doing here.
The next question is Amanda Murphy of William Blair.
It's actually Sylvia here for Amanda today.
Just have a couple of quick follow-ups.
So just wonder is it a possibility or is it a part of your consideration that you would kind of do an early renewal with the larger national contract and take the heat this year? Well I think we have to be responsive to what our customers are looking for and we're always having dialogues with them and I wouldn't rule anything out in that regard.
But I'm not going to specifically comment on it.
Great okay.
So if there is any impact it's not baked in yet the 2012 guidance? Anything that we are aware of or that we're contemplating is built into our guidance this year.
Okay got you.
And just as a follow-up on the acquisitions.
So it looks like it was becoming stronger than expected.
What drove the outperformance on that segment specifically? When you say it performed better than expected...
Just on the revenue per rec on its volume side? Well again we tried to break out a lot of this in the prepared remarks.
The acquisitions now include the benefit of S.E.D.
which we did not have in previous quarters.
And as you saw both Celera and Athena were contributing in excess of 2% previously.
So that's really the difference now is that we have S.E.D.
in the results.
And then the other thing that we pointed out was the benefit of weather in the year-over-year comparisons.
Okay and could you remind us if those newer acquisitions had been consolidated into Quest in our contracts? I'm sorry can you repeat that? I'm sorry if -- could you remind us if those acquisitions such as S.E.D.
in our contract have they been consolidated into Quest? S.E.D.
certainly will be yes.
All right.
The next question is from Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
It's actually Justin for Isaac.
First on the CapEx guidance.
You guys lowered it slowly.
Could you maybe talk to what was pushed out or pulled out of that at all? Yes nothing specific.
We looked at the level of spending in the first quarter and revisited the plans that we have for the remainder of the year.
And all of the programs that we planned we're continuing to move forward with.
It looks like some of them though will just get started a little later.
But it will have no impact on what we expect in terms of the cost-reduction program.
Okay.
And then looking at the cost-reduction program you guys said about 20% of it this year.
Have you talked about the pacing at all how you expect that to come through the back half of this year? We have not and that 20% is really a run rate as we exit the year that's how we've talked about the $500 million that -- it'll be a run rate as we exit 2014.
So as you'd expect it ramps up this year.
And it ramps up more slowly than it will in '13 and '14 and '13 and '14 is really where we start to see the more significant benefits from that.
And then lastly looking at volumes assuming they stay at the rough organic level that they're at now I mean how do you guys look at the ability to extend operating margins in the out years combining that with the $500 million reduction program? As we've indicated earlier generally we think about needing 2% organic revenue growth for us to be able to hold margins and offset the inflationary cost that we have in our cost structure.
Half of that being salaries wages and benefits which generally going up around 3% a year.
And the expansion that we're expecting now is really coming from the cost-reduction and hopefully as we get into the out years and we start to see some pickup in the market we can see further expansion and the acceleration at that point.
But the cost-reduction program will allow us to expand margins in this sort of tough market that we're in right now.
And that's essentially what you see in the guidance that we put out there for 2012.
All right.
Our next question is from Gary Taylor of Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple and both have been touched on.
So just on the CapEx Bob you've described as a relatively small change I guess it's almost a 10% reduction but your comment is basically that's entirely related to just timing of spend? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the G&amp;A I guess I've been trying to follow I'm maybe a little confused about maybe some references to first quarter of '11 when you were explaining some of the spend.
So maybe the way I'd like to ask the G&amp;A how should we be thinking about G&amp;A on a dollar sequential basis into the 2Q? Gary I -- we don't give that kind of guidance at this point.
And yes as I told you we don't give it in terms of dollars or percentages for cost of sales or SG&amp;A.
And yes I'd encourage you to think about it more as margins.
As I said earlier often some levers that we're pulling impact cost of sales or SG&amp;A but we see benefits show up in the other line.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So just to clarify then I kind of got lost.
There was a comment where you mentioned a legal and an asset impact on the G&amp;A line.
Is there something in the 1Q G&amp;A line that you're calling out as nonrecurring that...
There's probably about $5 million in each the cost of sales line and the SG&amp;A line this quarter that are somewhat unusual but not big enough for us to include in the adjusted results.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then just quickly I just want to point out maybe for Kathleen.
When I click on the PowerPoint presentation it's only coming out as a one-pager instead of a typical 12 or 13 and a couple of other people have mentioned that to me.
So...
Okay thank you I'll look at that.
Yes -- Research Division</strong> Good thing to look at.
It is more than 1 page.
Although maybe not 12 but -- Research Division</strong> I'm sure okay.
It shows what the disclaimer? It probably is.
I'll take that.
Thanks Gary for pointing that out.
All right next question is from Gary Lieberman of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think you might have said it but can you just remind me to what was the growth in drugs of abuse testing in the quarter? About 5% consistent with what we saw in previous quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is it possible for you to give us any kind of update about the progress that the existing Quest sales force has made specifically with regards to the sales of the Athena product line? Well you know Gary first of all as we said that we don't -- Athena and Celera the special sales force and there is no chain there.
But the important thing is that we take some products like SMA and it is sold through our physician sales channel and hospital sales channels so that we are seeing more traction in SMA.
And also it's now almost 12 to 18 months since we started investing and training our salespeople in physician sales and it's difficult in the beginning but I'm very pleased to say that we really have a stable sales force and they're trained and they are very focused on some areas like Women's Health prescription drug monitoring and we are seeing results.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any way to parse out how much of the growth in the in volumes from Athena and Celera came from the Quest sales force versus the preexisting sales force? We really don't break it down that way.
And also it's going to be very difficult because we integrate some of this business.
So the way to look at it going forward we have these 4 pillars cancer cardiovascular disease infectious disease and neurology they will have their special sales force but we also have 2 channels actually 3: Physicians hospitals and international.
And we want to maximize our distribution channel depending on where the products are coming from but it's going to be difficult for us to really exactly break down how much is coming from physicians and how much is coming directly Athena.
All right our last question is from Robert Willoughby Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This is Erin Wilson in for Bob today.
Just one quick one.
Are you anticipating any other management changes now that you have a CEO in place? Well I am not expecting any but I think you have to ask Steve.
I think we need to give him a chance to get here.
Well you know in closing I want to say again that it has been an honor and a privilege to serve as President CEO and Chairman of Quest Diagnostics.
This is truly a great company with dedicated people who always put patients first a strong management team and a very bright future.
I look forward to following its progress in the years to come.
And as regards to you ladies and gentlemen I've always appreciated your probing questions and industry insights and I will miss our interactions.
Thank you and goodbye.
Thank you for participating in the Quest Diagnostics First Quarter Conference Call.
A transcription of the prepared remarks on this call will be posted later today on the Quest Diagnostics website at www.questdiagnostics.com.
A replay of the call will be accessed online at www.questdiagnostics.com/investor or by phone at (888) 673-3567 for domestic callers or (402) 220-6430 for international callers.
No access code will be required.
Telephone replays will be available from 10:30 a.m.
Eastern Time on April 18 until midnight Eastern Time on May 18 2012.
Goodbye.
Welcome to the Quest Diagnostics' First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
At the request of the company this call is being recorded.
The entire contents of the call including the presentation and question-and-answer session that will follow are the copyrighted property of Quest Diagnostics with all rights reserved.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the expressed written consent of Quest Diagnostics is strictly prohibited.
Now I'd like to introduce Dan Haemmerle Executive Director of Investor Relations for Quest Diagnostics.
Go ahead please.
Thank you and good morning.
I'm here with Steve Rusckowski our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bob Hagemann our Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected.
Risks and uncertainties that may affect Quest Diagnostics' future results include but are not limited to those described in Quest Diagnostics' 2012 annual report on Form 10-K and 2013 current reports on Form 8-K.
A copy of our earnings press release is available and the text of our prepared remarks will be available later today in the Investor Relations' Quarterly Update section of our website at www.questdiagnostics.com.
A PowerPoint presentation and spreadsheet with our results and supplemental analysis are also available on the website.
Now here is Steve Rusckowski.
Thanks Dan and thanks everyone for joining us today.
What I'd like to start with is to take you through our top line performance and then review progress against our 5-point strategy.
And then Bob will provide details on the results.
In January we told you we anticipate a continued revenue softness in the first half of this year and that our efforts to restore growth would result in gradual improvement through the rest of the year.
So as expected we saw a continued revenue softness in the first quarter.
Now there are a number of factors that impacted our year-over-year comparisons.
As you'll hear from Bob later after considering those factors our underlying volume was down about 2% versus the prior year.
While some of this may be driven by continued softness in healthcare utilization we believe there is more we can do to restore growth.
And I'll share details on those efforts in a few minutes.
In addition we saw revenues per requisition lower by 3.4% in the first quarter primarily due to the combination of commercial pricing pressures and Medicare cuts.
We continue to expect it to be down about 3% for the full year.
Our 5-point strategy is aimed at addressing several of the fundamental factors that contributed to this quarter's softness and we are making progress on each of these elements.
Our primary focus in 2013 is on driving operational excellence and restoring growth.
Well turning first to driving operational excellence we continued to make excellent progress with our Invigorate cost initiatives which helped mitigate much of the bottom line impact of revenue softness.
We exited 2012 with a run rate of $200 million in savings and we are building on that momentum.
In connection with our strategic goal of simplifying the organization we have implemented a new organizational structure that will remove 3 layers of management for the business.
I'm happy to report we're on track to meet our earlier commitment to reduce 400 to 600 management positions this year.
It's already enabling us to be more agile more collaborative customer-focused and is contributing a significant cost savings.
In addition we are building a more performance-oriented culture which includes the creation of the new management process and performance management system.
We've gone to educate all our employees on new behaviors and cultural norms one of which is being more externally oriented so we can focus more on our customers.
We have taken a number of steps to restore growth.
We've expanded our sales force and now have more sales people in place than we have ever had.
We have filled virtually every management position in the new unified sales organization.
We held our first-ever National Sales Meeting in February.
And I can tell you the team left that meeting excited about their new assignments their new selling tools and their new simplified compensation system that actually went into effect on April 1.
We have completed the vast majority of customer transitions along with sales reps to make sure that they're more efficiently addressing their new sales territories.
We have reorganized the way we approach health plan customers and are having greater engagement at all levels.
And then finally we built a new professional services organization and are seeing strong interest from integrated delivery networks throughout the country.
We are executing our plan to restore growth that we shared with you in November and as we have said it will take some time to see improvement.
The results of these efforts may not be visible in the numbers yet but we believe we're doing all the right things to motivate incentivize and focus the sales organization.
And we continue to expect results from our efforts to gradually build throughout the remainder of the year.
We continue to make strong progress on the remaining 2 points of our strategy refocusing on Diagnostic Information Services and delivering disciplined capital deployment.
We completed the previous announced sale of HemoCue and plan to redeploy the $300 million of proceeds into share repurchases during the second quarter.
In addition we completed the acquisition of the UMass outreach diagnostic services business and announced the planned acquisition of certain outreach testing operations of Dignity Health.
We expect to complete additional fold-in acquisitions consistent with our goal of delivering 1% to 2% growth per year through strategically aligned accretive acquisitions.
The Dignity transaction combined with the UMass partnership positions us extremely well in 2 states that are leading the way in healthcare reform and is one more indication that hospitals are indeed looking for more cost-effective ways to manage their diagnostic testing needs.
We're excited about these 2 opportunities as well as the growing number of discussions we're having with hospital systems interested in working with us.
Well since we introduced our new vision goals and strategy at Investor Day last November we have been driving transformational change at Quest Diagnostics.
And as you know whenever a company undergoes major change at a rapid pace you might think there's disruptions even significant disruptions.
And knowing this I have been personally monitoring this closely.
I spent time meeting with employees particularly with sales reps around the country and accompanied them on many customer visits.
The conversations with sales reps and employees have shown that -- them to be engaged enthusiastic and focused.
And I can share with you that I'm not seeing any evidence of disruptions.
In fact I believe we're doing a good job exiting -- or executing our way through this challenging period.
I'm proud of some of the most recent accomplishments.
First of all during the quarter we launched several significant new service offerings which include the new dementia panel and a non-invasive prenatal genetic test.
In addition an important HIV genetic test was introduced last year which benefited from the recent HHS guideline change.
Each of these address a growing area of demand.
Just this week we welcomed Jim Davis.
Jim is a veteran of GEs healthcare business and he'll be the Senior Vice President to lead our Diagnostic Solutions business.
He will oversee Diagnostic Products our Insurer and Employer Services Clinical Trials and Healthcare IT.
And then finally we were recognized as one of FORTUNE's World's Most Admired Companies this year and ranked first in our industry category.
We see 2013 as a building year and we will improve operations and begin to restore growth.
Now let me turn it over to Bob for a detailed analysis of the numbers.
Bob? Thanks Steve.
Starting with revenues.
Consolidated revenues of $1.8 billion were 6.4% below the prior year.
Our Diagnostic Information Services revenues which account for over 90% of total revenues were 6.7% below the prior year.
Volume was 3.4% below the prior year with approximately 2% due to fewer business days in the quarter compared to last year and about 0.5% due to the impact of severe weather.
Partially offsetting those factors was about a 1% volume contribution from the UMass acquisition which we completed in early January.
The resulting underlying volume was about 2% below the prior year and consistent with the comparable measure last quarter.
This is also consistent with what we shared in January when we indicated we expect to see continued volume softness in the first half of the year with improvement in the second half due to more favorable year-over-year comparisons and building momentum on our efforts to restore growth.
Revenue per requisition in Q1 was down 3.4% compared to the prior year.
This compares to a year-over-year decrease of 2% reported in the fourth quarter of last year with most of the change due to the Medicare fee schedule reduction including pathology reductions as well as certain commercial fee schedule changes all of which went into effect January 1.
The 3.4% decrease reported for the quarter is principally reimbursement-driven as positive test mix is essentially being offset by business mix.
We continue to expect that for the full year the reimbursement decline will average about 3% with about 1% of the year-over-year impact we saw in the first quarter expected to anniversary later in the year.
Consistent with what we shared with you in January we continue to plan for average reimbursement pressure of 1% to 2% through 2015.
Q1 revenues in our Diagnostic Solutions businesses which include risk assessment clinical trials testing healthcare IT and our remaining products businesses were down about 2% compared to the prior year.
Adjusted operating income at 15.2% of revenues was about 1.5% below the prior year with the decrease due principally to lower revenues particularly the lower reimbursement.
A significant portion of the reimbursement and volume impacts is being offset by continued progress with our Invigorate initiative.
As we indicated on our last call we exited last year with about $200 million in run rate savings compared to a 2011 baseline.
We expect to achieve $600 million in run rate savings as we exit 2014 and we are on track to reach about 2/3 of that by the end of this year.
Our goal remains to bring that number to $1 billion over time.
Adjusted EPS of $0.89 was $0.16 below the prior year with the decrease principally due to lower revenues partially offset with cost savings realized from Invigorate.
Restructuring and integration costs totaling $45 million reduced reported operating income as a percentage of revenues by 2.5% and reported EPS by $0.17.
Last year's first quarter included $20 million of costs associated with restructuring integration and CEO succession which reduced reported operating income as a percentage of revenues by 1% and reported EPS by $0.08.
Bad debt expense as a percentage of revenues which is typically highest in the first quarter due to increased patient responsibility associated with unmet deductibles and co-pays improved 20 basis points from the prior year to 4%.
DSOs were 46 days down 1 day from last quarter.
Cash from operations was $47 million in the quarter compared to $161 million in the prior year.
Cash flow in Q1 is seasonally the weakest of the year and as we explained on our last call in this quarter was further impacted by about $70 million of income tax payments which were deferred from Q4.
Capital expenditures were $49 million in the quarter compared to $30 million a year ago.
During the quarter we repurchased 1.1 million common shares at an average price of $57.81 for a total of $62 million.
We plan to deploy the entire $300 million in proceeds received from the HemoCue disposition into share repurchases in the second quarter.
Turning to guidance.
We expect results from continuing operations before special items as follows: revenue to approximate the prior year level compared to previous guidance of 0 to 1% growth; the remaining elements of guidance are unchanged; earnings per diluted share to be between $4.35 and $4.55; cash provided by operations to approximate $1 billion; and capital expenditures to approximate $250 million.
In considering the full year guidance in the context of Q1 performance it is important to keep in mind several factors.
As we've previously indicated the comps versus the prior year will become much more favorable in the second half of the year.
While the number of business days coupled with the weather effect adversely impacted revenue comparisons by 2.5% in the first quarter those same factors are expected to contribute to favorable year-over-year comparisons of almost 2% in the second half of the year.
Revenue per requisition which was down 3.4% versus the prior year is expected to be down about 3% for the full year with about 1% of the impact we saw in the first quarter expected to anniversary later in the year.
We expect the Dignity Health acquisition and other fold-in acquisitions to contribute about 1% of revenue growth in the second half of the year or about 0.5% for the full year.
This is in addition to the 1% revenue contribution we expect from the UMass transaction.
Lastly on the revenue front our efforts to restore growth are gaining traction and we expect to see increasing progress as the year unfolds.
Regarding our Invigorate program we are solidly on track to deliver our commitment of $600 million in run rate savings as we exit 2014 and as we saw last year expect the amount realized this year will continue to ramp up as the year progresses.
And finally we plan to deploy the $300 million of proceeds from the HemoCue transaction into share repurchases in the second quarter.
This amount is additive to our commitment to return the majority of our free cash flow to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
In addition we are actively exploring opportunities to monetize the Celera products business and drug assets which could present an opportunity for additional share repurchases.
For these reasons we are confident in the expected performance improvement during the remainder of the year required to achieve our new full year guidance.
Now I'll turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Bob.
So what you've heard from Bob is there's a number of reasons to believe we will see improved performance as the year progresses.
I'd like to add a few comments.
First I've personally seen the efforts of our commercial team and I know the difference they're making with our customers.
And because of this it gives me confidence we will start to see signs of improvement soon.
As you have heard our guidance does contemplate additional fold-in acquisitions.
And based upon discussions we are having I'm confident that we will see additional contributions from acquisitions later this year.
We are actively exploring options to monetize our Celera products and drug assets and this could present additional flexibility for additional or incremental sales -- share repurchases.
So in summary we continue to see 2013 as a building year and we have confidence that executing our 5-point strategy will drive increased value for our shareholders over the long term.
Now we'd be happy to take your questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Amanda Murphy William Blair.
Research Division</strong> So I had a question.
You mentioned that you were seeing increased traction from the efforts on the Restore initiative.
Just curious if you can provide a little more detail there in terms of specifically what you mean as it ramps through the rest of the year.
Yes well thank you Amanda.
First of all Restore has 3 priorities for this year.
We've laid it out in our strategy.
We have 7 platforms that we need to invest in over the long term to restore growth but 3 specific priorities for this year: first is to bring sales excellence to the company; second is to really take advantage of our strong position in the advanced and esoteric testing and build on that this year; and then third is to really propel our belief that professional lab services could provide a new opportunity for us.
And we see yet another example with Dignity this quarter that an integrated delivery network on the West Coast has agreed to sell certain assets to us in their outreach activity.
But related to the first piece of Restore which is our sales excellence I've said in my opening comments that we did excellent progress.
In the fall last year we put together a different organizational structure.
That organizational structure included consolidating our 6 sales forces into 1.
We brought in a new sales leader Everett Cunningham.
Many of you met him at our Investor Day.
We went through the organizational design.
As I said in my introductory comments we've filled now virtually every management position.
We've made sure that every sales rep had clear accountability for their assignments going forward.
We had to make some changes with customer accounts.
We did that in an orderly fashion.
But I can also share with you that we were very careful to make sure that if in fact there were some customer concerns we of course corrected those at a detailed account level.
And then we held our first-ever National Sales Meeting to kick all this off in February.
And then in April this April we introduced a new simplified compensation system that went into effect.
So we're off and running with a better sales force than ever before.
We have more sales people than we've ever had within Quest.
We have a better structure.
I mentioned that I spent considerable amount of time with sales reps and with customers to see how it is going.
And I can assure you based upon my travels I have confidence in the new structure we've put in place the new systems we've put in place and in the new compensation system we've put in place and also the tools that we've equipped our sales force with.
They're quite motivated and engaged.
That's one point of restoring growth.
The second is around esoteric testing and also taking advantage of our science and innovation and building on that trend we see in the industry.
Another part of our organizational change is we've created a new clinical franchise organization.
We've put together 7 clinical franchises.
We will be managing that underneath Cathy Doherty for 6 and the 7th will be managed by Jon Cohen 2 senior members of my management team.
Cathy and Jon have made excellent progress pulling together the alignment of what's needed to really drive that science and innovation into the market in a much more aggressive way than ever before.
And so we feel good about the progress on that.
And then finally is to build a professional services organization to sell laboratory professional services.
As you recall we think we could leverage the strong presence we have in hospital accounts today with reference business.
We believe we can bring that up and provide a whole range of services up until including the acquisition of outreach businesses.
And so those 2 parts of our strategy growing our esoteric advanced testing business as well as our services business will build throughout the year.
And so we do believe that in the second half we'll see some of the benefits from those investments as those programs gain some traction.
And also as I said we really started to reorganize our sales force last fall.
That's been snapped into place.
New leadership is in place sales reps are assigned and they're off and running.
So that is all to plan and now it's all about execution and we do expect to gradually see improvement throughout the year as we said coming out of last year.
So I don't know if there's any more questions about that.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess as a follow-up.
I know you've talked historically about well your historical market share trends and obviously you expect that to turn around through the rest of this year.
So -- and I appreciate everything you just said.
I guess I'm curious have you seen anything from a competitive standpoint changing? So if you think about all of the enforcing that's been going on by physicians and hospitals buying back practices and obviously you're also buying outreach programs.
And then whether it be other independent labs have you seen anything change from that standpoint? Well Amanda it's hard to get information that you can see there's any change yet.
What I can say it feels like the market is about what we saw in the second half of last year.
That's continuing into the first quarter.
As Bob said we had a tough compare.
We don't have good data on what's going on with the competition yet.
And we don't see a substantial change of what's happening with what we call the hospitalization effort that's -- that has an effect -- that has had an effect on our market.
So overall we don't see a material change in the first quarter from what we think we're doing in the market.
We've put in place our 3 initiatives this year to restore growth.
We think we've made good progress but it's too early to say that we've started to see the gradual improvement we've expected for.
So overall not much to comment on yet based upon our performance in the market because we just don't have the data.
Your next question comes from Ricky Goldwasser Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions here.
So first of all when we think about the outlook for second half of the year I think we get to around 2% same-store growth -- volume growth in the second half as the sales force productivity kicks in.
And Steve you mentioned in your response to previous questions that there've been made some adjustments for the sales force compensation.
So can you share with us like some of the metric that sales force is now tied to and how you think of that in contributing to the growth in the second half of the year? Okay sounds good.
Thank you Ricky for the question.
First of all there's several aspects that will help us gradually improve our performance in the second half.
First of all we're talking about the sales forces gaining momentum.
You asked about specific metrics.
What we've put in place is a more rigorous disciplined structured approach a professional approach to managing the sales force.
Giving you an example we're asking for a target level of -- or targeted number of sales calls per individual.
We're rigorously managing that to the individual sales reps to make sure we're calling on our customers in a frequent way and a regular cadence.
That's a new approach that we've put in place.
And given our experiences we think that's the best way to gain business and gain momentum in the second half.
Second is we are starting to see the advantages of the new teams working together.
One of the principles Ricky of our new sales organization is to put in a geographic area all the sales reps which includes reps calling on primary care but also the specialist reps.
And in my travels I could tell you that we're starting to see the advantages.
We are seeing primary care reps being called in to specific accounts by specialist reps and vice versa.
They're passing leads.
They're seeing opportunities.
And since as we said 65% of physicians' networks are integrated delivery networks more of the business and more of our relationship is at that enterprise level so it has to be coordinated by that first-level manager.
And that network of sales reps and their incentives to help each other out also will be helpful as we move throughout the year.
I would also like to say it's not just the sales force that will help us in the second half.
And in my earlier question I commented that we do have 2 other aspects of our growth strategy that we believe will gain momentum in the second half and that is around new introductions of new solutions to the marketplace.
And that is something that we believe that we will continue to grow from and we believe we can accelerate the growth.
And we'll see some of the progress from those efforts in the second half.
And the third is the continuation of the opportunity we see with the professional services organization.
That will build momentum.
We'll see some volume for that in the second half that we didn't see in the first half.
So those 3 are the 3 priorities for this year.
We invested in those 3 priorities.
We have not yet seen the benefit of those in Q1 but we will gradually see improvement as we go throughout the year.
Let me turn it to Bob and see if there's anything he would like to add to explain the implied growth that we have in the back half because we're sure there's some questions about that.
Bob? Yes Stephen and this is what I tried to cover a little bit as we went through the guidance.
And just to help people understand a little bit I'll cover it again.
But we talked about the first quarter being impacted by several things which will either reverse or not recur as we get later in the year.
Certainly the days and the weather impact which cost us about 2.5% in the quarter we expect to have essentially a neutral impact for the full year.
So you'll see that reversing over the back half of the year.
Acquisitions which contributed about 1% to revenues and volume in the first quarter we're expecting to contribute about 1.5% for the full year.
That's a combination of UMass Dignity and other acquisitions that we intend to do and expect to do.
That can actually even be a little more than 1.5% potentially.
The revenue per requisition that was down 3.5% in the first quarter we're expecting to be down about 3% for the full year.
And again that's as a result of roughly 1% of that year-over-year decline is starting to anniversary in the back half of the year.
And then the Diagnostic Solutions business which we didn't talk about much but was down 2% in the first quarter that's a business that we're expecting to have a positive -- or a group of businesses that we're expecting to have a positive contribution for the full year.
So again stronger performance there in the back half.
When you look at all of that together it implies that the underlying volume growth for the full year has got to be somewhere in the range of a little less than 1% to about 1% and that compares to the negative 2% we saw in the first quarter.
So Steve just took us through all of the reasons that we expect that underlying volume growth to improve over the course of the year and that's how we thought about the year and piecing it together and how we get comfortable with the full year.
Research Division</strong> Now that's very helpful Bob.
And just to clarify does this guidance also include the potential buybacks that are associated with the potential monetization of the Celera assets? Or will this represent upside? Nothing specific with respect to the potential monetization of the Celera assets although as we've said we are actively exploring all of our options there.
And that could present an additional opportunity for share repurchases beyond what we've contemplated so far.
The next question comes from Kevin Ellich Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Bob is this your last conference call? It is Kevin.
It's my 65th and my last conference call.
Research Division</strong> Well I want to say wish you well and it's been great working with you and I hope you have a good venture in your next -- best wishes is what I'm trying to say.
Thank you.
Research Division</strong> So I guess first off talking -- looking at your 3.4% pricing pressure and you made a comment about the 1% that's going to anniversary can you give us any more specifics? Is that going to be in Q3 or is that later in the year? It's really later in the year.
Certainly all in the back half is where it anniversaries Kevin.
And that's principally associated with the commercial pricing changes.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then you've provided some good detail in your prepared remarks but I was wondering if you could maybe even give us some more color on the breakdown of that 3.4% pricing pressure.
How much of that is attributable to commercial and that did start on January 1 as well as the Medicare pressure you're seeing? Right.
And yes as we said coming into this year we expected that Medicare reimbursement exclusive of the pathology cuts would cost us about 5% on the Medicare book of business or close to about 1% or so almost $50 million.
And then additionally on top of that the pathology codes are going to have a more significant impact on us than others because of the relative size of our pathology business.
That coupled with commercial price changes is really what gets us to the 3% that we're estimating for the full year.
And that's something that we feel as though we've got very good line of sight to at this point.
Research Division</strong> So if I'd kind of back into it would you say commercial maybe pressure is 50 basis points of the 3.4% you saw? Well we didn't give out components of it Kevin at this point.
But you can clearly -- the Medicare fee schedule changes aside from pathology they're easily quantifiable.
It's roughly 5% on $1 billion or so in revenues.
Again the pathology cuts are going to have a relatively significant impact to us because of the relative size of the business.
And then the rest really is the commercial pricing.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then Steve is there -- are there any other commercial contracts that you haven't renewed or that are up for renegotiation that we should be thinking about? Well the only one that we're in the process of renewing is CIGNA.
That's the only national.
It's the only national.
As you know we have hundreds of contracts but that's the one that's notable.
Right.
And that's fully baked into and contemplated in the guidance.
It's in the 3% and the 1 point -- and the 1% to 2% guidance we've given past 2013.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then you made the comment about future tuck-in deals and we've seen you guys do a few outreach acquisitions.
When we think about future M&amp;A is that kind of along the same lines of what you're thinking Steve as more outreach programs? Or is there something else that strategically you want to get into? No what you have seen between UMass and now Dignity are 2 good examples of more opportunities that we see to build on our focus on Diagnostic Information Services.
We believe that this marketplace we'll continue to evaluate what is strategic and what's not strategic particularly for integrated delivery networks.
Again as I said in the past as in my prepared remarks many hospital CEOs are considering their options and we're actively in discussions.
So you'll see more of what you have seen so far as we go forward.
That's what we mean by tuck-ins and strategically aligned.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then just one last quick one.
So recently Palmetto updated pricing on a number of their Molecular Diagnostic codes.
We know Molecular Diagnostics isn't huge for the company but it seems like you're starting to see some positive news on that front.
Is there anything -- any other momentum that would be positive heading into 2014 that you want to call out? Kevin let me give it to Dan.
He's got the latest update on that.
Yes on the Palmetto codes we did see that a couple of the rates did increase for a couple of codes.
It's still difficult to tell what they'll do with other codes.
We are sure that a number of Medicare contractors -- or providers are providing information to the different Medicare contractors to help them understand the costs involved with performing the testing.
But it's difficult to predict what they're going to do with respect to additional rates.
The next question comes from Lisa Gill JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of follow-up questions.
Bob when you talked about Invigorate you talked about $600 million by the end of 2014.
So is the right way to think about that it's $400 million of incremental savings in 2013? Well Lisa what we said is it's going to be a $600 million run rate as we exit 2014 with $500 million in the P&amp;L in '14.
Where we're at at the end of last year or where we were at the end of last year was $200 million in run rate savings with $160 million through the P&amp;L.
And for this year as we exit 2013 we're expecting to be about 2/3 of the way to that $600 million run rate savings.
So -- and this is all off of a 2011 baseline.
So obviously it's ramping up as we progress throughout the year.
We feel very good about the programs that we have in place.
They're all building momentum at this point and it's an area that we have a lot of confidence in.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that they're going to be primarily back half-driven? Just looking at the way that the guidance is setting up based on what we saw on the first quarter would you expect a lot more of that to come in the back half of the year? I know you made a lot of comments say around revenue but you haven't really talked about the costs as we go throughout the year.
Yes certainly it ramps up as we go through the year.
But this isn't something that we don't have good line of sight to.
We have very good line of sight to it.
There's a lot of momentum as I said around each of the initiatives which are part of the program.
But clearly just as we saw last year where we delivered more at the end of the year as we exited the year than we had in the first quarter we expect the same sort of ramp-up this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my second question Steve would be for you.
As we think about the Affordable Care Act and we start thinking about 2014 can you talk about the discussions that you're having with your exchange Managed Care partners? Are they looking for more restrictive networks around lab? And what do you see as the potential opportunities as well as what do you see on the cash pay side as far as the risk goes as we think about 2014? Sure.
Thanks Lisa.
Well first of all we continue to believe that the Affordable Care Act will be a net positive for us going forward.
And as we all know 2014 is an important year where some of the new lives will start to enter the system.
And we believe that when we have new lives in the system that they're going to be what we do and that will be net positive for this industry but also net positive for us.
I could share with you that we're actively in discussions with all the health insurance companies integrated delivery networks.
Everyone's working through how they'll be engaged in this new system as we go forward.
And related to that yes there is discussions around different networks and more closed networks.
And we're actively in discussions of how we can participate in those.
So the best way to describe it Lisa is there's a lot of activity going on right now.
We do believe again it's net positive for us as it all sorts out.
There will be more lives that's good for us and the exchanges will be a part of that.
Research Division</strong> When do you think you'll have more color around specific relationships? And my expectation would be that given your relationship with Aetna if Aetna sees an increase in volume the relationship should be fairly similar going forward under their exchange product as well.
Am I thinking about that correctly? Yes I mean as you would expect it's -- with those organizations that we have strong relationships with we'll build on those relationships.
My commentary about bringing sales excellence to Quest we have strengthened our health plan organization.
But also what we've improved on is total engagement with health plans starting with me.
I'll share with you that I've firstly been engaged with many -- in many conversations with CEOs and talking through what's happening with their business and what will happen with the exchanges.
So we'll build on those relationships as we go forward.
And you asked about timing.
As I said this is happening this year.
Hopefully when we get into the second half we might have a little more color on this we can give you more transparency of what that could mean for 2014.
It's still very early to provide any of that because it is happening as we speak.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I also want to wish Bob all the best.
Thank you Lisa.
Thank you Lisa.
Appreciate it.
Your next question comes from Tom Gallucci Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a follow-up on Lisa's first.
Any color that you can give us on pricing relative to some of these products in the exchanges versus maybe whatever your commercial rates are today? Yes Tom we're not expecting that pricing on the exchanges is going to be materially different than what we're seeing.
In some cases it might be a little lower.
But what we've seen to-date is not materially different.
Research Division</strong> In cases where you're saying it might be lower is that because there is an exchange for a narrower network? Or is there some other dynamic just in terms of how this plays out? It's a combination of things certainly.
I mean it's the type of product they're offering it's the way they're structuring the network et cetera.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just taking on pricing.
You guys have talked a bit about just some longer-term pricing pressure too that 1% or 2% I think you mentioned a couple of times in this call and in the past.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to make sure I understood.
That's just the pure price as opposed to your sort of revenue per requisition so it's just -- it doesn't include any benefits of mix or anything else that's the underlying pricing? Yes the 1% to 2% is what we're looking at for price erosion.
That's past 2013 if we've modeled out what we think will happen on the commercial side and also what we know will happen on Medicare so far and that's what's in the number.
And Tom that is pure reimbursement or price as you might think about it.
The other dynamics that we've got obviously are test mix which we'd expect will continue to be a favorable factor for us.
And then the business mix always -- also factors in there.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And what are the lengths of the average contracts these days on the commercial side? Yes they're still in the 3- to 5-year range generally.
I mean there are some that are shorter obviously but we're looking generally at kind of the 3- to 5-year range for some of the larger ones.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So when you're thinking out to '15 or so a lot of that is already on the table relative to the commercial side of the equation? I would say we've got a reasonable visibility into some of that.
But as you know yes every year there's always contracts that are coming up.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just 2 more questions.
One you talked a lot about the sales force and building some momentum.
And a couple times you mentioned new tools at their disposal.
Is it possible to get an understanding of sort of the different types of things that might be doing? Sure.
Research Division</strong> And it sounds like you expect to gain some market share.
So where do you think that market share is going to be coming from? Sure sure thanks Tom.
Well we had a sales force that didn't have some of the contemporary tools that contemporary sales forces have today.
So we've put in place a new CRM with the salesforce.com.
We have a sales engagement tool called SAVO.
We've put both in place.
We also equipped them with contemporary devices.
So we gave them each an iPad.
And the reason for this is to make sure that we really take advantage of the collaboration that we need with the new environment we see going forward in health care.
And as I mentioned in my comments we're actually seeing some of this.
When I've been out in the field sales reps are seeing the advantages of being in all their different specialties and bringing in what we could do with pathology what we could do with neurology what we do with cardiology and taking advantage of that and also seeing the advantages of leveraging our enterprise-wide presence with integrated delivery networks.
And to make all that happen you need to have contemporary tools.
So that's what we meant by that comment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my last question.
Just Bob the Q2 buyback you're using sort of the HemoCue proceeds was all that contemplated in the original guidance or is that sort of just a tweak given that that deal is actually done at this point? That was contemplated in the original guidance because as you recall coming into the year we already had HemoCue listed as discontinued operations and had fully committed to the disposing of that business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just like to give you thanks to over the last 15 or 20 years that we've worked together Bob.
Good luck with everything.
Thank you very much Tom.
I appreciate it.
Your next question comes from Gary Lieberman Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just going back to the commercial pricing.
Could you tell us was that just the commercial payers following suit with Medicare or was that more of market-driven pricing pressure? It's not necessarily a function of Medicare Gary.
These are contract negotiations that we've had over the years things that we've done to expand access and the like lock-in certain contracts.
And as we said we expected it coming into the year.
It's pretty much consistent with what our expectations were.
If you recall Gary we said 3% for the full year.
And so what you saw in the first quarter is what we expected to Bob's comment and it will feather down as we go throughout the year as we said.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Steve it sounds like you remain pretty confident in the sales effort and have given some granularity.
Any challenges that you found that you maybe didn't expect? Just as we said in our commentary when we kicked off our restore initiative it will take time.
It's always challenging to grow the top line.
It will take time to build out the momentum that we see and that we've put in place and the investments we're making.
And we believe that we will get gradual improvement over time.
And so it's very important that this year we have 2 priorities: one is driving operational excellence; and the second is restoring growth.
And so what you see in the first quarter is we have taken costs out of this business.
We will continue to do that.
We have a challenging goal to get to the $600 million run rate savings in 2014.
But as you recall we also challenged the organization.
We're still working on that challenge as we want more than $600 million and sooner.
And so we're working on additional savings to get us to a higher number so we can drive that to the bottom line and build value.
So in 2013 we need to deliver on those cost improvement initiatives and driving our operational excellence.
And I want to make sure it's clear we're also watching our customer service levels.
We're watching the way we interact with our customers.
We expect both.
We expect to be more efficient but we also expect to have a higher-quality better-performing organization because there's a lot of different variables that go into decisions why customers do business with us.
And we're not underestimating that impact on our business as well.
So we're holding firm on making sure that we continue to improve our service levels coupled with the efficiency gains.
And as we make these investments and restore growth we'll get that gradual improvement.
You'll see some of that in the back half of the year but that does take time.
So if there's any challenge that I didn't foresee I can say that I did -- we did believe it'll take some time and it's turning out to take some time.
So just reiterating that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just a final question on guidance.
You said you'd come in probably closer to the lower end of the prior revenue range at 0%.
You didn't make any changes to the range on EPS.
So is that all a function of being able to take and accelerate the cost savings? Or should we expect you to may be towards the lower end of the EPS than we would've priorly thought? Bob why don't you tackle [ph] the question.
Yes Gary we didn't change the EPS guidance because we feel as though we've got good line of sight to the cost reduction efforts that we've got going on.
As I said earlier the momentum is building there.
And while we did tweak the revenue guidance a little bit it's not significant.
Additionally we feel as though we've got opportunities to deploy our cash more aggressively and I cited some of those.
So all in we feel very comfortable keeping the EPS range where it was while still tweaking the top line a little bit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And Bob again thanks for all your help over the years.
Thank you very much Gary.
Your next question comes from Glen Santangelo Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Steve I just want to follow up with something in the comments you made in your sort of prepared remarks.
I think you seem to suggest that volumes maybe in 1Q were somewhat of a continuation of maybe what you saw in the second half of last year.
And I'm just kind of curious I mean I understand the ramp in the back half of the year and all the building blocks to kind of get there but are you assuming any improvement in the overall market growth? And could you give us a sense for maybe where the market growth is today? I'm trying to understand if things are getting better on the Anatomic Pathology side given the reimbursement cuts or if you're still losing a little bit of share to hospitals.
If you could just help me through that a little bit that will be helpful.
Glen thanks for the question I appreciate that.
My comment about the comparison versus the second half actually if you look at our first quarter volumes they were up a little bit versus what we saw in the fourth quarter.
Some of that you expect because of seasonality we typically get in Q1 but they were softer versus last year and we went through the reasons for that based upon a difficult compare the very strong year last year.
But if you look at what we're assuming in our guidance going forward we're not looking for a material change in the overall environment in the marketplace.
And if you look at our second and third and fourth quarter of last year and we did see some softening already in those quarters so now as we said in our comments about the easier compare that's factored too into our discussion or in our guidance as well about the second half.
So no material change in the environment going forward.
So what we saw in the first quarter and what we saw in the second half of last year is what we expect to see going forward.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if I can just follow up given the relationship you guys have with Aetna obviously the Coventry deal should be closing here shortly.
I mean have you built in sort of any increased volume assumptions based on that acquisition? Or is that not that meaningful? Yes we continue to be engaged with all our partners.
Aetna is one of our strong partners.
We are working with them proactively.
And as you would expect we're working on that integration plan with them.
We're hopeful that we could pick up some volume from that.
But that's one of a number of initiatives that we're working on with Aetna but we're doing the same with other partners as well.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if I can finish up with one last question on the reimbursement front.
I mean the President's budget obviously was released last week proposed some additional cuts to the lab industry looking at a little bit longer term.
I mean is that kind of in line with your expectations? Was that a little bit worse than your expectations? Or any thoughts around the longer-term reimbursement perspective would be helpful.
Well the discussion has started so it's too early to comment on whether that's going to hold.
As you can imagine the trade association and ourselves individually as a company is doing our share of talking to the right people in Washington.
We believe that this industry has paid.
You've seen it significantly this year we've got 3% overall price erosion and a large portion of that is related to our government business.
So there is a proposal on the table whether that will hold up or not after all the dust settles is unclear at this time but we'll continue to work it as we have worked it.
And the position that the industry has taken is this is an industry that adds a lot of value to health care.
We argue that the majority of healthcare decisions are made with the benefits of what we do.
Some people estimate that to be 70% of healthcare decisions.
And 3% of the costs we have had significant cuts so far.
We also had the pathology cut this year.
So we're making sure that Washington and the policymakers hear that.
We will continue to do that and we'll see what happens as time goes on.
The next question comes from Robert Willoughby Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Bob maybe I'd tag you one last time before you leave here.
But one quarter doesn't a year make but the deal spending is doubled with more on the way the CapEx is up year-over-year the outstanding debt is up sequentially it's not exactly consistent with that improving ROIC story that you're seeing in the income statement or trying to make on that income statement.
So is there a commitment to reduce the capital base with $600 million in cost cuts over the next couple of years? Yes Bob just a few points on that.
Yes the debt has been reduced significantly from a year ago.
You saw a modest tick-up of about $40 million or so in the first quarter.
That's just seasonal working capital requirements there.
Yes with respect to the deal spending Steve's articulated that a key element of our strategy to deliver strategically aligned accretive acquisitions and when we laid out the criteria for those deals one of them was improving ROIC.
So it had to be accretive to our planned ROIC.
In many cases we're looking at mid-teens ROIC within 3 years on these transactions.
So we don't see these as dilutive to ROIC we see them as accretive.
And then additionally we are looking for opportunities to refocus the business and then take the proceeds from that refocusing and deploy it back to shareholders.
You've seen that with HemoCue.
We have additional opportunities as it relates to the Celera drug assets and the Celera products business.
So there's a real focus on improving ROIC here.
And I think we've shared with you in the past that management is heavily incented as part of our long-term incentives to drive improvements in ROIC.
So I think you'll see a lot of discipline there continued discipline.
Research Division</strong> Would it be -- can you size the expected divestiture proceeds versus the expected deal spending this year? Is it possible to get some kind of idea? Well without projecting deal spending this year certainly the HemoCue transaction and the proceeds there will fund most if not all of any planned acquisitions we've got this year.
And then on top of that we've got additional opportunities for proceeds from the various Celera assets the drug assets and the products business.
Research Division</strong> 5x could it be that wide the spread between proceeds versus divestitures? It's very very early Bob and it'd be very speculative at this point.
Research Division</strong> All right Bob good luck.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> We've covered a lot of ground here but I did want to clarify your assumptions on guidance.
You guys are -- it sounds like assuming 1.5 percentage points of acquisition contribution this year minus 3 on pricing.
So if we look at the first quarter volumes that you had it looks like your full year guidance for a 0% revenue does call pretty much for a big acceleration in the underlying volumes for the rest of the year.
And even if we put in context your easy comps can you help us get comfortable of why you would see that kind of acceleration particularly as you reorganize the sales force? Yes Bob why don't you take it through the year to kind of -- think about the year and what that means to the back half? Yes and Isaac let me again just take you through some of the pieces here.
The comps do have a pretty significant impact in the back half of the year.
That plus the weather impacted us by about 2.5% in the first quarter.
It's going to be neutral for the full year so that full amount anniversaries.
As we said we do expect there to be additional contributions from acquisitions.
We've labeled that as about 1.5% for the full year up from the 1% that we saw in Q1.
And there's the potential for that 1.5% to be even a little higher than that.
Revenue per req we took you through portions of that that anniversary.
And I did mention earlier as well the Diagnostic Solutions business which we expect to be a contributor to revenue growth in the back half of the year and positive for the full year as well.
When you cut through all of that clearly it does mean that we're expecting improvement in underlying volumes.
But for the full year we're looking at something in the range of about 1 point or so in the underlying volume growth and that compares to down 2% in the first quarter.
So we are expecting a ramp-up.
But for all the reasons Steve cited we're pretty confident in that because we are seeing some building momentum there and expect to see the progress as -- mostly as we get into the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just my follow-up would be on the earnings side of the guidance range.
The scenario that gets you to the high end of the range that you guys still have I mean is that going to be largely a function of accelerating Invigorate savings? Or is there an operational driver beyond that we should think about that would actually allow you to get to the high end of the range? Just trying to think about the sort of bare -- bold case scenario.
Yes it's accommodation of a couple of things obviously.
In any time you're doing some modeling you always have multiple levers here.
And while we're estimating that revenues are going to approximate the prior year level that means that it could be a little bit on each side of that.
And certainly if it's to the upside of that that contributes to positive earnings.
Certainly some of the things that we've got going on with Invigorate can give us some uplift there as well.
And then potentially anything that we might do with additional share repurchases from proceeds from divestitures could give us some upside towards the end of that range.
The next question comes from Darren Lehrich Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of odds and ends here.
First as it relates to the Celera portfolio I just want to clarify are there other royalty or drug license assets outside of the Celera portfolio that are included in this process? I just want to try to clarify do you expect the bulk of what you're working on there to come from the Celera piece or are there other pieces? Yes Darren when we speak about the drug assets they are the assets that we acquired as part of the Celera transaction.
Quest prior to acquiring Celera did really not have any assets like that.
Celera had participated in the development of certain drugs: one of them odanacatib which is Merck's drug for osteoporosis; the other ibrutinib which is the drug that the joint venture of J&amp;J and Pharmacyclics are taking through trials at this point.
That's a cancer drug.
It's one that obviously has a lot of excitement around it.
But those are the 2 principal drugs that we're talking about that we have some royalty rights to.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes just I wanted to confirm that there weren't any legacy things in there so that's helpful.
I guess the other question or clarification you've given us a lot of helpful commentary on how the guidance builds so I'm not going to revisit the volume piece but given the sequestration hit mid-quarter and I think your commentary was that some of the Managed Care pricing impact about 100 basis points anniversaries much later in the year is it reasonable to assume that Q2 pricing is actually similar or even slightly worse than what we saw in Q1? I just want to get a sense for the progression of the pricing piece.
Yes.
Without giving -- attempting to necessarily give quarterly guidance here the improvement that we expect in revenue per req or reimbursement is really in the back half of the year as something start to anniversary out.
Yes I wouldn't expect the year-over-year change in Q2 to be materially different than what we saw in Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And last thing is for Steve and you talked a bit about the things you're doing to develop a professional services organization particularly to pursue some of the hospital opportunities.
Steve I guess could you just maybe give us some color on whether you're seeing the sales cycles for some of these hospital opportunities start to close in and just how you're looking at that? Yes thanks Darren.
It is building.
And it is building actually faster than what I have anticipated.
I've shared with you all that I've done a number of sales calls.
Even last week myself and Everett Cunningham went to visit the hospital system in New England and they're contemplating what they do going forward with Diagnostic Information Services and they're thinking about how they can work with us.
We have that as one opportunity just as an example of -- this is happening at a very rapid pace.
So that call just came in about 2 weeks ago and we followed up on it.
That's one of many examples.
There's a lot of interest on what we've done so far.
We're building a reputation of having a capability to do this.
We wanted to use UMass and now Dignity as great examples of where we can buy an outreach business.
But also we have other ways of working with integrated delivery networks.
So what we can see so far Darren is I think our reputation is building I think the activity level is better than I expected and I am encouraged by it.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Bob all the best to you.
Thank you Darren.
Your next question comes from Gary Taylor Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Bob good fortune to you.
You've always been very patient with us analysts so we all appreciate it I think.
Thank you Gary.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick numbers questions.
On G&amp;A $295 million I guess I was a little surprised given I guess both the revenue weakness and the cost-cutting initiatives that perhaps G&amp;A wasn't down sequentially.
So I know you don't give quarterly guidance but can we just kind of talk around kind of the run rate of G&amp;A on a dollar basis? Should we be expecting that to come down on a dollar basis or are we still kind of thinking about G&amp;A avoided as a cost save so to speak? Well first of all let me tell you that Bob will comment on the adjusted SG&amp;A and a portion of what we've mentioned that we enjoyed in the quarter is the benefits of the Invigorate.
And we're pleased with the progress that we saw in Q1 and it allowed us to mitigate some of the softness that we saw from the bottom line because at the top line some portion of that Invigorate savings does hit G&amp;A but also hits our selling costs as well.
And what you're probably looking at is the total reported numbers and there were some onetime restructuring charges in that number.
So Bob how would you like to give them a little more transparency of our progression of expenses because the trend line is good.
Yes and Gary the SG&amp;A line G&amp;A in particular is where we're seeing a lot of the benefits of the management delayering and the like at this point.
And when you look at SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues it's down almost a full point versus...
Adjusted.
Adjusted from last year.
And actually on an absolute basis it's down as well.
So we can circle back to you and take you through the numbers but both on an adjusted basis and a reported basis it's down versus the prior year.
And on an adjusted basis as a percentage of revenues down pretty significantly.
Yes absolutely.
[indiscernible] Research Division</strong> Right.
We pulled the restructuring out of that I just -- I was looking at it more sequentially I definitely have it down year-over-year but I was thinking more sequentially.
My second question is when we look at the total revenue decline in the quarter do you have a rough estimate of organic revenue decline year-over-year? Well yes when I took you through the analysis before the -- when I spoke to underlying volume down about 2% versus the prior year that's -- aside from reimbursement yes that's what we saw as the organic volume decline.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I was trying to think of how you thought about the total revenue number organically but just because I think there's kind of maybe moving parts on the reimbursement side as well.
But so we'll take the negative 2% organic volume and just assume that the price per session decline is essentially organic and add those 2 together.
Right that's a good way of thinking of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two more quick ones.
On the Dignity outreach program you acquired can you disclose the purchase price or will you be disclosing the purchase price? We are not disclosing that Gary.
We typically have not on some of these fold-in deals obviously for competitive reasons and the like.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you give us kind of a thought process on a multiple of revenue or pro forma EBITDA that makes sense for these outreach deals which I assume are mostly pretty -- the bulk of which are probably routine testing? Right.
In many cases it is routine testing.
Yes as we said earlier we had several criteria that we use in evaluating each of these fold-in acquisitions.
First is it's got to create real value for our shareholders.
So as we look at the purchase price that we're paying versus what we expect the value to be on a discounted cash flow basis there's got to be a substantial value created there.
Additionally as I said earlier on the call we want all of these to be accretive to ROIC within a reasonable timeframe.
And we want them to be accretive to earnings per share within 2 years in each case as well.
So with that as the discipline that we go through you should expect that the multiples that we're paying are very market-driven.
Obviously some of these are competitive situations; others are not.
But really the real value that's created in these fold-in deals is through the cost synergies.
In many cases we see that the hospital reimbursement is higher than us and there's actually negative revenue synergy when we reprice a lot of that.
But that is more than offset by the cost synergies that we realize because in most cases and the Dignity deal is a good example we're not really acquiring infrastructure we're acquiring a book of business that we're running through our existing infrastructure and that generates very strong incremental margins for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My last quick question.
Cash from ops $47 million versus $161 million.
You cite the $70 million deferred tax benefit you had in the first quarter of '12.
But that total tax payable line swung almost $120 million against you year-over-year.
So I presume that's not recurring and normalized cash from ops obviously given you reiterate your guidance normalized cash from ops was better even than perhaps the $47 million plus the $70 million.
So is there anything in that -- anything else in that tax payable line that we should know about outside of just seasonality and typical movement? No and I'd be a little careful because sometimes you got reclasses between the taxes payable and the deferred taxes line.
The actual change in tax payments -- total tax payments in the quarter was about $74 million versus the prior year about yes $84 million in total tax payments in the quarter versus about $10 million last year.
Your next question comes from Sandy Draper Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I think actually all of my questions at this point have been answered so I'll just echo my comments Bob it's been a pleasure working with you and good luck going forward.
Thank you very much Sandy.
I appreciate it.
The next question comes from Anthony Vendetti Maxim Group.
Research Division</strong> Yes just a follow-up on CIGNA.
You mentioned Bob 3 to 5 years is the normal contract.
Some of these larger insurers sometimes those contracts are obviously larger or longer in length.
Can you talk about whether or not you expect the CIGNA contract to be a 5-year or longer kind of contract? Is that your goal? Yes Anthony we really don't comment on specific contracts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on the Invigorate program there's $500 million that will flow through the P&amp;L.
What's going to happen with that other $100 million? Why is that different than the other $500 million? Well the $600 million is run rate as we exit 2014 and $500 million is realized in that period 2014.
So [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when all the cost cuts eventually come through they will be on an ongoing run rate but it will be after 2014 because $500 million will be realized at that point at the end of 2014.
Got you.
Got you.
Yes I'll remind you too we've said our goal is actually $1 billion in cost savings over time.
So we're not stopping at the $600 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay great great.
And I'll echo the same comments.
Thanks for everything Bob and good luck going forward.
Thank you very much Anthony.
I appreciate it.
Thank you for participating on Quest Diagnostics' First Quarter Conference Call.
A transcript of prepared remarks on this call will be posted later today on Quest Diagnostics' website at www.questdiagnostics.com.
A replay of the call may be accessed online at...
Operator wait can we get one more comment for Steve just to close up? Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Well since I think we've answered most of your questions we don't want to finish this call without acknowledging Bob.
Bob doesn't expect this but I'm going to do it anyhow.
So I know many of you have commented but I want to make sure that we recognize the critical role that Bob has played in building this company since he joined here in 1992 so a long time.
As most of you know this will be Bob's last call.
But before Bob moves on I wanted to make sure that all of us on this call and I want to make sure that he hears it from me and also you hear it from me that on behalf of the entire organization we want to thank you for what you've done for this company we want to thank you for all your contributions and we wish you well in all your future endeavors.
Bob thank you very much.
Thanks Steve.
It's been a real privilege to be the CFO for this company and it's been exciting for me to be part of what we've become.
And I'm -- as I've told people before I'm very excited about the future of this company and I'm going to be watching it.
And it's been a real pleasure and I thank everybody on the call for their remarks as well much appreciated.
Thanks Bob.
And thank you for yours Steve much appreciated.
Thank you.
Okay Dan? Okay that's it.
Gwen I'll turn it back to you.
Thank you.
Once again if you would like to access the replay it is at www.questdiagnostics.com/investor or by phone at (800) 835-4373 for domestic callers or (402) 280-1657 for international callers.
Telephone replays will be available from 10:30 a.m.
Eastern Time on April 17 until midnight Eastern Time on May 15 2013.
Again thank you for attending.
You may disconnect at this time.
Goodbye.
Welcome to the Quest Diagnostics First Quarter 2014 Conference Call.
At the request of the Company this call is being recorded.
The entire contents of this call including the presentation and question-and-answer-session that will follow are the copyrighted property of Quest Diagnostics with all rights reserved.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Quest Diagnostics is strictly prohibited.
Now I would like to introduce Dan Haemmerle Executive Director of Investor Relations for Quest Diagnostics.
Go ahead please.
Thank you and good morning.
I am here with Steve Rusckowski our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Guinan our Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we may make forwardlooking statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected.
Risks and uncertainties that may affect Quest Diagnostics' future results include but are not limited to those described in Quest Diagnostics' 2013 Annual Report on Form 10K and Current Reports on Form 8K.
A copy of our earnings press release is available and the text of our prepared remarks will be available later today in the Investor Relations 'quarterly updates' section of our website at www.questdiagnostics.com.
A PowerPoint presentation and spreadsheet with our results and supplemental analysis are also available on our website.
Now here is Steve Rusckowski.
Thanks Dan and thanks everyone for joining us today.
This morning what I would like to do is walk you through the industry dynamics talk about the impact harsh winter on the quarter and review progress against our five-point strategy and then Mark will provide more detail on the results and walk you through the guidance.
So let's start with the industry dynamics and the legislative dynamics in particular.
As you know our industry has been facing unprecedented reimbursement challenges from the government from a long history of reimbursement cuts.
The new provisions of what's called the Doc Fix Legislation that related to the clinical fee schedule remove a dark cloud that was hanging over our industry.
This legislation gives us an outcome that is much preferable to earlier government proposals.
What is does is it delays adjustments to the clinical out fees schedule until 2017.
It provides for a rule making process to define new rates based upon a market weighted medium of commercial rates for abroad or in laboratories and importantly it restricts the authority of CMS to make discretionary cuts.
I look forward at working on this with our trade association particularly in my new role as Chairman.
Now there's been questions about the pricing mechanisms in the legislation and let me provide some clarity to that.
First this needs to be top defined through the role making process but it's designed to be representative of the entire commercial laboratory market.
The legislation includes hospitals out reach laboratories and independent laboratories.
The laboratory industry agrees that everyone benefits from including a broad spectrum of providers in the network.
Now beyond the recent legislation we continue to believe the affordable care act will be net positive for the industry.
In the near term we expected it to be neutral to slightly positive for Quest in 2014.
The enrolment process was in line with our expectations that is bumpy roll-out followed by a late surge near the deadline and we believe that going into the second half will see some impact but again neutral to slightly positive.
As we all know this was an unusually harsh winter in many parts of the country.
And this had a significant impact on many businesses.
During the quarter we estimate that the harsh winter reduced our revenues by 2% and EPS by $0.11.
At this winter and more like last year revenues would have been essentially flat to the prior year and EPS would have been favourable to 2013.
We saw signs of continued stabilization in the underlying trends.
Sequential year-over-year trends improved for revenue volume and revenue per acquisition.
As we said in January we want to deliver guidance that is both realistic and achievable.
While the slow start to this year clearly is a challenge.
We are confident that progress we have made on growth initiatives particularly as a result of acquisition activities will enable us to meet our commitments.
Given this environment and actions we are taking we now expect to show revenue growth beginning in the second quarter.
In a few minutes Mark will share color on our 2014 guidance.
We have been dealing with dynamic market forces and we are in the process of updating our longer term view.
We do expect to share this with you later in the year at our Investor Day Presentation.
But in the meantime we continue to be bullish on the longer term growth drivers of this industry.
First the market will benefit from continued population growth and favourable demographics as baby boomers move into Medicare and live longer.
Also advanced esoteric testing will grow as precision medicine drives demand for advanced diagnostic insights.
And despite the slow uptake for the affordable care act more ensured buyers will gradually begin to enter the market each year.
And then finally medical guideline changes do influence physician behaviour and we expect to see increases in some tests such as hepatitis C non-invasive prenatal testing lymph syndrome and lipid testing.
Over the long term we see significant opportunity in being a high quality low cost provider of diagnostic information services which are essential to healthcare delivery.
We remain committed to executing our five-point strategy and what I'd like to do now is to give you an update on progress.
Our top priority for 2014 is to restore growth.
We are making solid progress on our growth priorities.
On the business development front we've completed seven acquisitions at the beginning of 2013 including three this year.
Prior to our January call we announced the agreement to acquire Solstas.
I'm happy to say the integration is now well under way.
I've been impressed with the professionalism in the quality of the Solstas team that I had met.
Solstas will help us improve top-line performance and strengthen our presence in important region of the country.
We also recently completed the acquisition of Summit Health a few days ago.
Summit solidifies our leadership decision in the fast growing wellness business.
In this business we partner with employers in health plans to provide an overall health assessment including biometric screening as well as a comprehensive laboratory analysis.
Summit is complimentary to Quest owned wellness offering whose customers tend to be large employers.
Both businesses have been growing organically in the double digits.
Summit offers wellness services largely through third parties including through large health plans and employers.
And both Summit and our wellness business also works closely to help retailers and urgent care centres meet their necessity explored new business models.
Our specimen collection is largely based on vein puncture and Summit relies largely on fair sticks.
This positions us well in the major Wellness segments including screening immunization coaching and disease management.
At Investor Day on 11/20/12 we indicated that we are targeting 1% to 2% of revenue growth through strategically aligned acquisitions.
As we have shared Solstas Lab about 5% to revenues on a annualized basis.
In addition other acquisitions including Summit and Stewart we add an additional 1% to 2% to revenues growth in 2014.
Beyond the quarter growth we have been highlighting the opportunity to target with hospital systems in integrated delivery networks.
Our investor day on 11/20/12 we spoke about the challenges that integrated delivery networks would begin to have as a result of intensified reimbursement pressure and following utilization.
There are many ways that Quest Diagnostics can help from performing reference testing to various forms of laboratory management partnerships all the way to including purchasing of hospitals outreach business such as our recent agreement with Stewart Health System.
What we're seeing over the past year is increased interest from the C-suite of integrated delivery networks interested in learning more about our broad experience across the spectrum of service offerings.
During our last call we announced that we have reached agreement with three humidity based hospitals and we indicated that we would have more to share.
I am pleased that during the quarter a lab professional services team reached agreement with a significant regional integrated delivery network.
This is a multi-million dollar opportunity evolving several sights.
We have taken out hundreds of this client's former employees to operate this lab network and we begin to generate revenues earlier this month.
These are all exciting opportunities for us.
This last win is further evidence that hospital leaders are open to new ideas to help them manage the emerging challenges of reimbursement pressure and lower utilization.
We have the experience and expertise to help tailor solutions for the needs to hospitals of all shapes and sizes.
Finally we are seeing results from our focus on specific disease stay-in conditions.
We talked about the strong growth in our Wellness business combining with Summit Health will strengthen this business.
We have also seen solid growth in our toxicology and prescription drug monitoring offerings as well as improvements in Hepatitis C BRC Advantage and non-invasive prenatal testing.
In Oncology women's health we have launched a test to assess the risk of lymph syndrome a genetic disorder associated with the higher incidence of colon rectal and other cancers.
While we are making progress we need to keep our focus on this top priority of restoring growth.
We also continue to make progress driving operational excellence.
Our Invigorate cost reduction in this is expected to approach $700 million in run-rate savings by the end of this year compared to 2011.
And we also are committed to our longer term goal of $1 billion in savings beyond 2014.
As we have said the operational excellence program which we call Drive is improving our quality and efficiency it will enable us to improve our overall customer experience.
You know driving operational excellence is really all about creating a superior customer experience in towards that end we recently launched what we call Our My Quest which is by Care360 patient portal that allow patients to take ownership of their own results and manage their conditions more effectively.
A new federal rule that took effect earlier this month gives patients in all 50 States the right to view their tests directly without first being authorized by a physician.
We also made great progress on our simplifying the organizations strategy last year.
So in 2014 our intention has been shifted towards building a high performance culture focusing on our behaviours and delivering results.
We also made some important organizational changes.
First I'm pleased that Lidia Fonseca an industry veteran has joined Quest as our new Chief Information Officer.
I worked with Lidia years ago at Philips in Marlborough.
Lidia is now fully engaged in this part of our plant to strengthen our IT capabilities which includes improving the customer experience and driving efficiencies that will help us reach our $1 billion goal.
Also as previously announced John Hayden formally our Senior Vice President of Operations has moved into a key role to oversee our equity joint ventures.
He has succeeded in the operation role by Jim Davis who has deep operational experience and had led our Employer Insurance and Products businesses.
Finally we continue to review our portfolio for opportunities to refocus on Diagnostic Information Services and enable us to continue to deliver disciplined capital deployment.
We remain committed to our plan to return the majority of our free cash flow to our shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
The harsh winter made a particularly tough quarter.
But we are seeing signs of continued stabilization in the business and closed this quarter strong in March.
We are making progress and recognize that there is much more to be done.
Now I would like to turn it over to Mark for a detailed analysis of numbers Mark.
Thanks Steve.
Starting with revenues consolidated revenues of $1.75 billion were 2.3% below the prior year.
Our Diagnostic Information Services revenues which account for over 90% of total revenues were 2.1% below the prior year.
Volume was 0.07% favourable to the prior year.
Recent acquisitions added approximately 3.5% to volumes.
The seasonably harsh winter depressed volumes by approximately 2% compared to the prior year.
You've heard us talk about the impact of weather on our business in the past.
Given the severity of this past winter let me take a minute to give you some color on how we calculate the impact of weather on our business.
Our analysis is based on specific declines in volume versus trend for a specific geographies related to various specific weather events.
Adjusting for acquisitions in weather we are estimating our organic volumes decline less than 1% compared to Q1 2013.
This year-over-year comparison is essentially in line with our exit run rate from Q4 2013 and is an improvement in the comparison from the earlier periods of 2013.
Revenue per acquisition in Q1 was down 2.8% compared to the prior year.
The recent acquisitions and price erosion each accounted for about 100 basis points of the change.
While changes in business mix accounted for the remainder.
However we except this metric to improve as we move through the year as certain items will anniversary including sequestration and certain commercial rates that were renegotiated during 2013 consistent with what we shared with you in the fall of 2012.
We continue to plan our average reimbursement pressure of 1% to 2% through 2015.
Q1 revenues in our Diagnostic Solutions businesses which include risk assessment clinical cross testing healthcare IT and our remaining products businesses were down 4.3% compared to the prior year with approximately half of that impact related to the devastator of Inter X last year.
Adjusted operating income at 13.5% of revenues was about 1.7% below the prior year with the decrease due principally to lower margins associated with reimbursement pressure and limited flexibility in our ability to remove costs in response to short term weather events.
Despite these challenges we continued to make progress on our Invigorate Program which helped offset wage bill inflation and lower margins on our more recent acquisitions.
As we indicated on our last call we expect to achieve approximately $200 million in real life savings during 2014 and approach approximately $700 million in run rate savings as we exit 2014 with a longer term gaol of $1 billion over time.
Adjusted EPS of $0.84 was $0.05 below the prior year with an $0.11 headwind resulting from the impact of the unfavourable weather in the quarter.
Special items totalling $28 million principally restructuring in integration costs reduced reported operating income as the percentage of revenues by 1.6% and reported EPS by $0.13.
Last year's first quarter included $45 million of costs associated with restructuring and integration charges which reduced reported operating income as a percentage of revenues by 2.5% and reported EPS by $0.17.
Bad debt expense as a percentage of revenues increased 30 basis points from the prior year to 4.3%.
Two issues to keep in mind on our bad debt first as you think about the year our bad debt expense is typically the highest in the first quarter due to increased patient responsibility associated with the un-met deductible amounts.
Second from a benefit design perspective as we shared in our last call we expected that employers would shift more costs to individuals and we see a continued increase in the prevalence of high deductible plans.
Despite this trend we believe we are managing the change in operating environment and continue to see improvement in our collection rates across our various pair categories as a result of our efforts to drive operational excellence.
DSOs were 49 days a two day increase from last quarter principally as a result of the Solstas transaction.
That is our results include all of the Solstas accounts receivable balance but only revenues since the early March close date.
Cash from operations was $84 million in the quarter compared to $47 million in the prior year.
Cash flow for Q1 is seasonally the weakest of the year and as we explained last year our Q1 2013 cash flow was reduced to a tax payment that has previously been deferred.
Capital expenditures were $68 million in the quarter compared to $49 million a year ago.
During the quarter we repurchased $32 million of our common shares at an average price of $52.80.
We plan to meet our capital deployment commitments by returning the majority of our free cash flow to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
We also acquired Solstas and recently went to the Capital markets and ran a very successful $600 million bond offering last month at attractive rates while maintaining our investment grade credit ratings.
We remain committed to maintaining our investment grade credit rating and also remain committed to paying down the majority of the debt associated with the Solstas transaction over the next 18 months.
Turning to guidance our guidance remains unchanged to what we shared last month.
We expect results from continuing operations before special items as follows; revenues to increase 2% to 4% compared to a year ago.
Earnings per diluted share to be approximately between $3.95 and $4.15.
Cash provided by operations to approximately $900 million and capital expenditures to approximately $300 million.
While the first quarter was negatively impacted by the weather we continue to believe that guidance is realistic and achievable and will benefit from our recently completed acquisitions and our efforts to restore growth.
Finally I'd like to remind you of some data points to help put our guidance into perspective.
Regarding reimbursement keep in mind some items were anniversary this year including sequestration and certain commercial contracts.
On acquisitions you should dial 6% to 7% revenue growth into your models for the remainder of the year 5% from Solstas and an additional 1% to 2% from other acquisitions in the year.
And we expect acquisitions to benefit EPS gradually through the year as integration plans unfold both Solstas and Summit will be dilutive to second quarter earnings but accretive for the full year.
As a result of these items we now expect second quarter EPS to approximate the prior year level and to show growth in adjusted EPS in the back half of the year.
Now I'll turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Mark and to summarize the harsh winter hurt us in the quarter but we are seeing positive signs in underlying trends.
Fortunately Congress lifted a cloud from our industry with a recent legislation that effects the clinical out fee schedule and our top priority for 2014 is restoring growth.
We are pleased with progress we are making on our growth priorities and particularly the recent acquisitions.
As we said in January we believe our 2014 guidance is both realistic and achievable.
Now we would be happy to take your questions operator.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Glen Santangelo with Credit Suisse.
Thanks and good morning.
I just want to follow-up on the pricing question.
Mark if I heard you correctly I think you sort of talked about the revenue pre-requisition being down 2.8%.
You kind of laid out the different components being acquisition price erosion and business mix.
I wonder if you can elaborate a little bit more on the price erosion and business mix you know components of that erosion because I think if I heard you correctly your assuming that pricing will be down 1% to 2% this year and next year.
So given that youre down almost 3% in 1Q should we assume that youre going to start an anniversary in some of these acquisitions and ultimately in some of these contract renewals and so we should see pricing start to improve sequentially throughout the year.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yeah I appreciate the question Glen.
So first off the 1% to 2% guidance is really a three year from 2013 to 2015.
So what we're what I was trying to emphasise is that we're not deviating from what we had communicated.
You know starting with our investor day in 2012 and I think pretty consistently each time we have a chance to address it.
So the when you look at the 2.8% that I referenced the revenue per rack this quarter about 100 basis points was true price and that's what we are referring to when we talk about the 1% to 2 percentage.
True price independent from business mix and business mix obviously comes in two forms.
One is should we do acquisitions for instance we've talked about the toxicology acquisition we did mid last year.
That can have a different structure and had lower revenue per rack obviously also lower cost per rack as well and therefore it has a negative mix impact on us.
The other one is the mix within our core organic business as we go forward and things can shift you know quarter-to-quarter depending on tax mix and so on and so forth.
So the trend throughout the year what I'm really talking about is the comparisons year-over-year will improve.
Not necessarily you know forecasting and improvement in overall rent per rack although we have talked about the fact that we have seen a positive trend in a number of tests per acquisition and that's certainly something that we would expect to continue.
Okay I appreciate that.
Steve maybe if you can just follow-up on the molecular diagnostics piece of the business.
You know your primary competitor obviously has called out you know some big challenges getting paid in that area in 2013.
Maybe we start and see a little bit of reprieve on that in 2014.
Could you maybe comment in terms of what your collection experiences have been related to the molecular diagnostics and ultimately do you think this could be an opportunity as some of the payers start to maybe ease up a little bit on some of the restrictions here and can just be a tailwinds.
For U.S.
we think about the balance in 2014 relative to 2013.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Glad it.
Let me just underscore something that Mark just went through.
We feel that we have good visibility on pricing and there has been a lot of interest at pricing in the past and as we said our guidance for the next three years is 1% to 2%.
We shared at 2013 it was going be about 3% we ended at about 3% and we actually showed in the first quarter that were making movement down.
We actually believe that were executing well against our pricing discipline approach in the market place and the 1% real price effect in the first quarter I think underscores that strategy.
So Dan answered your on molecular diagnostics.
Actually we continue to work with payers and what Id share is even though we had been in constructive dialogue I would not say that its material change than what were getting paid for by payers.
So this is a continued process we continue to work at.
Were hopeful were having a good dialogue and good discussion but I cant say in the first quarter there was material change of what we were paid for versus prior quarters.
Okay thanks for the comments.
Thanks brother.
Next question comes from Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Ah yeah good morning.
Good morning.
Just a couple of questions here.
Obviously were hearing a lot of commentary around hep C.
I just want to get your perspective.
Are you seeing any upside to your hep c testing business as a result of sociability [ph] you expected to be a meaningful contributor for the remainder of the year? Yes.
Thanks for the question Ricky.
We did actually mention in Steves prepared remarks at just one of the areas that we had seen growth in.
So yes absolutely wed seen growth and we expected to contribute to our overall business success for after remainder of the year.
Okay.
And can you quantify for us?  Yes.
Now Ill take that.
Its tough to quantify.
I think as youre commenting has a lot of visibility right now with the new drug therapies in the market place and now there is effective treatment for hepatitis C.
There is lot more visibility to it and so therefore we should see some tailwinds in the testing we performed but we cant quantify for you at this time.
Okay.
And then on your ACA comments obviously its early on and we get most of the uptick in lives towards the - actually were getting in first quarter.
But any early insights on ACA-related volumes? How are patients on exchanges utilizing that services versus kind of like your non-NCA population? Well.
The best way that will I answer at this point were so digestive what well see.
We are at commences that for this year on the neutral-to-slightly positive for us in our numbers.
We [indiscernible] of this industry or trying to understand the true impact of the exchange.
We still believe there was increase at Medicaid volumes and were also trying to digest it and have it on the employers side.
The [indiscernible] breaking is as you know we do have a larger percentage of our business with highly top [ph] peoples.
We are relieving a fair percentage of the new lives.
We will have higher deductibles and as interest they are aiming for our business both in [indiscernible] but actually these people will have to pay our pocket.
Its exactly [ph] what it does to pressure our bad debts.
So were digesting it all.
We dont have better fill for it yet but again we believe it will be neutral to slightly positive in 2014.
Mark will you care to join?   Yeah.
There is someone come out at us.
One of the very positive aspects amongst many of the Affordable Care Act is that there is a number of diagnostic and preventative treatments that are not actually subject to many patients responsibility.
Its not clear that thats broadly understood.
So until thats broadly understood certainly the passion would be so much needed to taking advantage of past not having to work after deductible and these higher deductible plans.
So I think its very early.
I think its the answer.
And well be interested well be monitoring it.
Im sure youll be asking us about regularly but its just too early to make a call at this point.
Let me just assemble [ph] on last comment on you for Affordable Care Act again.
We believe Affordable Care Act continues to be net positive.
This is free and net positive for us.
We have said in the past well continue to say that more people are determined to continue with what we do and thats the trust.
And thats  those are included in your 1% to 2% assumptions for pricing trends going forward? Yeah.
We have to do this.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Michael Cherny with ISI Group.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So obviously a few weeks ago everyone knows the push-outs you mentioned of the clinical lab fee schedule reimbursement changes.
In terms of your negotiations there I guess you obviously think that the clinical lab has been a bit of the crosshair as seen with us for a while now.
This is clearly a sign of positive for you guys.
What you think was a key tipping point in convincing CMS to delay some of these costs particularly? And also what you did mention much also was the downside limits on those cuts of 15% released [rail guards] up to 17%.
Yeah Michael.
I have described it this way is if we did a good job actually as an industry as you know active with the Miracle Clinical Episode Association so are number of people in this industry.
We expect a fair amount of time walking the halls of Congress getting Congress involved and what this industry has paid in the past and what is at risk if it in fact we didnt have any what well describe as guard rails on the process going forward.
Fortunately we got them to listen.
We were fortunately there also thinking about how they would do this years doc fix.
We took advantage of that opportunity and fortunately with the build-up was passed it allowed us some time now to get it to a good dialogue about the rule-making process and also that will allow us to have a comprehensive market view by code that will eventually set the prices that will take effect in 2017.
So were encouraged by that.
We have worked on furloughs [ph] to make sure the rules are done correctly and eventually when we do the market analysis and again when I set up my remarks its a full market view including all segments of the market place and we feel good about that.
We think it serves all segments well to be participants in that survey and when we go through the data in 2015 and 2016 well eventually have new prices in 2017.
We did have caps at the per code level.
You know they are at 10% but until you get the market data youre not sure really what the effect would be per code but thats 2017.
So we feel good about the process we feel good that weve some time to digest it and create some stability with us but this is unknown in the market price and as I said from my earlier remarks it actually lifts the cloud that was over this industry that worked in the past.
So we feel good about whats happened.
Great.
Thanks.
And just quickly relative to maintaining the 1% to 2% compounded reimbursement cuts to 2015.
Are there any other really unknown there are swing factors one way or the other that could impact on 15 and the year currently debating to you positive or negative?  Yeah.
Mark would you like to add that one? Yeah.
I think the add to that is no.
I dont think there is any other wildcards at this point certainly not in the radar.
So I think as you mentioned in the past weve got a good handle on the cycle of commercial renegotiations.
I think we got a pretty track good of be able to kind of guard rail those as Steve mentioned and we called the 3% going into 2013 that includes negotiation but had yet to be completed.
At that point we at that pretty much nail right on the head and we talked about obviously our setting those lower rates in 2014 and 2015 and certainly as we shared this quarter it seems like were delivering on that.
So at this point we feel very confident in those guard rails of 1% to 2% that we mentioned over that period of time.
Perfect.
Thanks.
Next question comes from Darren Lehrich with Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning Darren.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
So I just keen to one of your comments Steve just around what you said youre in the process of updating your longer term view.
Can you just remind us what is your current long-term view of the market? I recalled at the initial Investor Day that you had hosted you thought it was around 4% market growth and maybe just give us a sense for how youre thinking any differently about the longer term view.
Sure well enough you to reiterate what we said in 2012 and I guess we have to update it.
So its all decimals but well tell you what we said.
We said that we believe that market place was a good market and thats this market will be growing at about 4%.
Now in that market assumption we assumed the Affordable Care Act would be taking full force in 2014 and as you know that hasnt happened so that was a big assumption in that.
Clearly this has been pushed out.
It could be more of a gradual build and well eventually come back to you with our current assessment of the market.
This fall well evaluate what our current forecast is as far as the Affordable Care Act.
On the Investor Day I said my comments were really arranged [ph].
The population is growing were all living longer and we [indiscernible] will be into the med care system.
Also advanced diagnostics are critical to persist with medicine.
These all have very positive effects on other Diagnostic Information Services that are needed in the market place.
So well update this when we have our Investor Day in the fall.
Some of the assumptions that we had at 2012 really have changed but we still are optimistic and bullish of the process with this industry.
Okay.
Thats all for DGX [ph].
Its clear that youre suggesting here that the ACA benefits may just come in more gradually and that seems like a key assumption thats changed and this would be cherished.
Are there any other things that maybe changing for the better in your view because weve heard a lot from you just about the activity in the hospital domain? And Im just wondering if you think you gain more traction there such that you have a different view the other way in that part of the market? Yeah.
Well see as its in our comments.
Were encouraged by the traction we are getting with our dialogues in hospitals.
Weve announced the relationships over the first quarter too a bit about those and in their [indiscernible] range of difficult relationships that we formed but still got the boasted integrated delivery system.
We feel good that they have decided to continue to work with us and for other in our relationship.
We also announced the small hospital punitive [ph] hospital in North-western Connecticut this week in [indiscernible] again is a community in North-western Connecticut but [indiscernible] hospital all these happened [indiscernible] the same thing and their cost structure there is [indiscernible] about that.
We also announced with [indiscernible] is that there is [indiscernible] integrated delivery system that has multiple [indiscernible] and all the multimillion dollars as the volume for us and were encouraged about that.
We started to see some of this.
Then we shared this with you because the [indiscernible] is to build our discussion continued to build around and we think about that but were not so optimistic that at this point were going to change our guidance because there are so building and you need to bring [indiscernible] will progress.
We feel bit of our guidance for this year.
Okay.
That helps for me.
Just one follow-up really with regard to your Q2 commentary I guess be implied on flat year-over-year guidance for Q2 is roughly 6% to 7% below consensus on ETS line.
Are you saying that most of that is the diluted nature from the DOs? Can you just suppose think about prior year youre giving us this Q2 flavor at this point?  Yeah I do appreciate the question.
First up generally we dont really address consensus but what I can tell us you is that if we look at the year obviously were guiding to something thats just little bit better than flat year-over-year.
So really the question is how the cord is to get lay down.
In the first quarter your nickel [ph] behind and you mentioned that you do have a little bit of delusion in the second quarter from soft business of it which really implies that were going to pay cut nickel or so in order to grow [indiscernible] in the back half of the year as these acquisitions really become creative through the integration synergies that were driving and take a little time to accomplish.
So yeah Im not quite timed to your 6% to 7% below consensus some of the priority was about 6% and while were not speaking precisely giving you precise number in Q2 which does try to simulate generally flat a little bit of growth on the underlying business offset with a bit of delusion on the two recent acquisitions.
Okay.
Thats all folks.
Thanks very much.
Um hmm.
Next question comes from Bill Bonello with Craig Hallum.
Hi guys.
I also just wanted to say hi to Lydia.
I worked with Lydia too and I think thats a great hire.
Great.
I wanted to ask a couple of questions too about the hospital deals because it seems to me like those are really starting to take off.
Thats the first thing and you probably talked about this before.
But can you just remind us sort of what your targeting in terms of return on capital with these deals? How we should think about what the metrics that they really need to achieve for you to want to get involved with  I assumed margin is probably less of a concern than return but maybe just elaborate and then well have a follow-up.
Yeah.
Im characterizing that every hospital has its own lab strategy.
They were approaching peacefully just working in and were having a discussion about the lab strategy and just like so much it helped to see one strategy seem one strategy same for the lab.
And what we try to give you is portfolio of all the different opportunities which we find exciting.
People are engaged dialogue with us.
It all starts.
We have a strong hospital business as you know.
We do reference testing for hospitals and people dont really like relationship and some of these deals will take the form of laboratory management and the deal we talked about thats a multi-side deal has a portion of that laboratory management.
We also have forms of joint ventures in the past.
We have a number of successful joint ventures with integrated delivery systems.
And finally in some cases hospitals want to get out of the outreach business and already between [indiscernible] and the [indiscernible] stores selling the remainder of the household outreach that today of course some hospitals coming their way.
It is an encouraging time that many systems are now thinking or rethinking what they should do in the labs base in the setting thats best for them to focus on what they do well and rely on earlier [indiscernible] we do well for them.
So we think thats encouraging.
This supports what [indiscernible] We believe those two large role drivers of value are growth and return on invested capital and we think that this business or lab professional services business will allow us to restore growth and at the same time be accredited to our return on invested capital targets as before.
And I will turn to Mark to add some color to that as well.
Yes Steve mentioned.
Bill Im sure youre smart at least deals come in different shapes and forms.
So we buy a business from average business like they were still like [indiscernible] theres some of the greater invested capital but you also will get higher margins because you owned the business.
Whereas in some of the other deals were really just partnering.
Obviously we dont have as much investments and the margins therefore are acceptably lower to still get an attractive return on invested capital.
So were really focused on growing our return on invested capital.
Certainly we try to do as well as we can in the margin in every given deal which suggests that the structure of the partnership deals are going to be lower margin with lower invested capital than the acquisitions.
I also want to make sure were clear because you mentioned that some of the acquisitions are lower margin thats really the initial margin so until we drive those synergies.
But as we mentioned and I think I specifically addressed on the January call once we get Solstas for instance up and running we expect those margins be comparable to our base overall business.
Thats helpful.
And do you have an actual return hurdle than an acquisition have to gather a deal have they hit that you can share?  Yeah.
No that we can share.
Well we have as I said were really targeting to grow our return on invested capital.
So on the acquisitions we do mention that we wanted to be a creative on our RIC basis by the third year but have not shared specific overall RIC targets or hurdle rates.
I mean as you know Bill there is some subjectivity on this because everything has different levels of risk.
So we certainly would not accept anything below or cost of capital and we turn on getting to grow our RIC which suggests they all have to be above our current level of our RIC but we havent shared special hurdle rates.
Okay.
Great.
And then just one final question I guess for both of you.
There seems to be an ever-growing mass of clear wave especially labs and for the most part you havent done a lot in that area youve done a couple I guess in the past.
But can you just kind of tell us your view on that? Can those be attractive opportunities? Those seem to be growing really fast but I know that there can be other concerns maybe about integrating them with the business like yours but I just be curious if you think thats an opportunity for growth or not.
Thats so.
First of all one of our points of our five-point strategy is to build or deliver disciplined capital deployment and as part of that we have a goal to go over 1% to 2% through acquisition.
And what we said is we want to use our money wisely.
Were going to look for strategically aligned accredited acquisitions and as you get from our comments this morning we feel good about the progress were making we are on the high end of that range.
We provided it in our five-point strategy.
Were tracking well against it.
So Bill in terms of speciality labs we will consider speciality labs that are strategically aligned and they need to be creative.
Every deal is a deal by itself and we need to look at it based upon how we can make money for our shareholders but well consider it but in the end thats be aligned.
We also would consider make [indiscernible] considerations whether we could do it ourselves and whether its wise for us to invest on buyings so that we can do it ourselves but at the end we need to deliver on our goals of making money for our shareholders and well continue to put up through that filter.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks Bill.
Next question comes from Amanda Murphy with William Blair.
Good morning Amanda  Hi guys.
So I just had a follow-up on some of the questions around volumes.
I know there is a lot going on in the numbers that Im curious.
What you guys are seeing in terms of underlying dynamics relative to HAS [ph] plans just in excluding reforming [indiscernible] not.
Are you seeing that impact Q1 volumes or benefit Q4 volumes at this point?   Yeah I think looking at that level of granularity its a little bit tough and especially looking at the first quarter Amanda with the amount of weather we saw its tough to read too much in some of these trends at the moment.
Got it.
And Im just curious about the pathology side of the business.
Are you seeing I guess two questions there one any attempt to sort of insourcing dynamics thats given all the reimbursement issues in this phase? And then secondly is that an area that you think maybe - or I guess are you seeing more assets in that area come to market is that something that you would consider being more active in terms of M&amp;A? Yeah.
Let me give you some color on pathology.
Clearly with the ADA [ph] three or five cuts last year theres more pressure on everyone to make money in pathology services and also on the tech side.
You would have expected given the pressure that there will be increased interest in outsourcing if you will.
What we shared before then really havent changed.
We havent seen enough material change on peoples perspective on this but we do have discussions with hospital systems we go department if you will by department talking about what their strategy is in pathologies consideration but no notable change at this point.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Next question comes from David Clair with Piper Jaffary.
Hi good morning everybody.
Good morning.
First question from me.
I was just hoping we could get an update on BRCAvantage and your NITT businesses.
How are they performing compared to your original expectations and any color on reimbursement?  Yeah sure.
Let me take that.
BRCAvantage as you know we entered the market place in the fall.
We did this very very quickly after the Supreme Court decision in June we feel good about that.
Were gaining traction in the market place.
As you introduced product you first have to introduce it to your customers.
There is a variety of segments in this market place from the surgery to radiology to womens health specialist and were doing that as we speak.
Were actually tracking to our internal plan which obviously would have a ramp build into it and we feel good that were making the progress we would expect.
But also non-evasive prenatal testing is a growth market for us were focused on that as well.
We feel that with the progress were making there we think its a fast growth market place.
It is a great example where medical guidelines are actually stimulating demand for us and were taking advantage of those new guidelines of the market place.
So in summary theyre both tracking theyre both opportunities for growth for us and were looking about their prospects.
And Dan any colour you can give us on reimbursement for using one of those? Mark would you want to add anything to that? Yeah.
We have successfully negotiated reimbursement rates with the typical health plans that we contract with.
We feel good about the prices again similar to what Steve said on expectation as not just volume but the reimbursement rates that we thought we could achieve.
Were feeling good about those.
So the reimbursement environment is reasonable certainly like any other task that starts to get lot more attention - the payers start to put some things in place like pre-authorizations etc.
that can slow down the process make things a little cumbersome and youre going to work through some of those issues initially to smooth up the process but no major hurdles on reimbursement in those two categories right now.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then as you look at the portfolio right now are there any businesses that youre kind of looking at potentially the best thing or whats your thoughts there? I know youve pointed out in the past that the [indiscernible] products business is something that could potentially be divested.
Yeah.
So again go back to our five-point strategy what we have worked on in the course of 2013 as were focusing on Diagnostic Information Services.
Back in 2014 we actually sold four assets too small too larger.
We continue to evaluate some other portions of our portfolio.
When we had our Investor Day on 2012 we did talk about looking at our strategic options for [indiscernible] products were currently still evaluating that.
And weve got a few others that will evaluate but well keep you informed as necessary.
We continue to stay focus on our core business which is Diagnostic Information Services and there is a few things we might consider changing in our portfolio but we made excellent progress making sure that were focused on bringing more Diagnostic Information Services companies into our portfolio with our acquisitions.
Okay.
And then just one quick one on guidance.
Im assuming the update that you gave at mid March did not include Stewart or the IDN that youre talking about right now.
So should we assume that these deals just get you more comfortable with guidance or should we assume that there is potential upside here? Yeah.
Within the guidance we earmarked with the 1% to 2% for strategically aligned acquisitions.
So while we may not know exactly which acquisitions there might be we typically have a pipeline.
So the Solstas acquisition kind of stands outside that given its size you should really look at some [indiscernible] and the other two as kind of being within the envelope of that 1% to 2%.
So they werent explicitly in the guidance.
I think you should assume they were in place of [indiscernible] guidance.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from Bryan Brokmeier with Maxim Group.
Hi Brian.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
How large is your clinical trial business? And despite the recent slowdown are you seeing any impact to that business from the recently high level of biotech financings? Mark go and check that.
Yeah.
We have not shared the specific size.
Its one of the smaller businesses within our Diagnostic Solutions.
But certainly the slowdown in R&amp;D span has had some impact on the overall market within the clinical trials laboratory area and has made growth a little more challenging.
But we also feel good about our service offering and some of the relationships that we have which really enable us to maintain work with some of our - as preferred provider for a couple of the drug development company.
So its been tough headwinds but not anything of major significance in terms of the slowdown and we feel good about that business both today and about its future prospects.
Alright.
Thanks.
And was the doc fix legislation a fact during your acquisition of the remainder of the Stewart Outreach business and more broadly how does it impact the M&amp;A environment? Well say that the doc fix legislation had no bearing on your view on our acquisitions that weve done in the past and also this year.
And as far as the environment going forward it provides the lift if you will the cloud that was over the industry where were happy about that and it provides us some time now to work on the rule making we feel good about that.
So what it did do the doc fix is it will at least provide us with more clarity around pricing and in 2015 and 2016 some reasonable confidence around the clinical lab fee schedule pricing that we should be considering while were looking at acquisitions.
So its a part of the conversation but I cant say it had an overwhelming consideration for what we do with Stewart.
Does the legislation also make scale much more important in the industry?  Well I think there is a lot of dynamics in general around scale in this industry.
Its true for the broader health care industry.
Frankly what you see us driving is a continuation of what we believe is necessary health care and more and more consolidation.
What we did with Solstas what we did with the other acquisitions are consolidating this industry.
We think thats strategically helpful to us and also we can make money our shareholders and were going to get continue to track down that road because we believe its the right strategy for Quest Diagnostics and I think its consistent with what you see in other parts of health care overall.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you for participating in Quest Diagnostics first quarter 2014 conference call.
A transcript of prepared remarks on this call will be posted later today on Quest Diagnostics' website at www.questdiagnostics.com.
A replay of the call may be accessed online at www.questdiagnostics.com/investor or by phone at (800) 937-2485 for domestic callers or (203) 369-3858 for international callers.
Telephone replays will be available from 10:30 a.m.
Eastern time on April 24 until midnight Eastern time on May 23 2014.
Goodbye.
Welcome to the Quest Diagnostics First Quarter 2015 Conference Call.
At the request of the company this call is being recorded.
The entire contents of the call including the presentation and question-and-answer session that will follow are the copyrighted property of Quest Diagnostics with all rights reserved.
Any redistribution retransmission or rebroadcast of this call in any form without the express written consent of Quest Diagnostics is strictly prohibited.
Now Id like to introduce Dan Haemmerle Executive Director of Investor Relations for Quest Diagnostics.
Go ahead please.
Thank you and good morning.
Im here with Steve Rusckowski our President and Chief Executive Officer and Mark Guinan our Chief Financial Officer.
During this call we may make forward-looking statements and also discuss non-GAAP measures.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected.
Risk and uncertainties that may affect Quest Diagnostics' future results include but are not limited to those described in Quest Diagnostics 2014 annual report on Form 10-K quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K.
Our earnings press release is available and the text of our prepared remarks will be available later today in the investor relations quarterly update section of our website at <u>www.questdiagnostics.com</u>.
A PowerPoint presentation and spreadsheet with our results and supplemental analysis are also available on the website.
Now here is Steve Rusckowski.
Thanks Dan and thanks everyone for joining us today.
This morning Ill provide you with highlights of the quarter.
Well share industry trends and also review progress we are making executing our 5-point strategy.
Then Mark will provide more detail on the results and take you through guidance.
Before we get into our performance I want to highlight the joint venture we announced last month with Quintiles in clinical trials testing.
Together our two companies will create the new business that will be one of the leading global providers of central laboratory services to support drug developments through clinical trials.
The creation of a joint venture allows Quest and Quintiles to bring together the complementary capabilities in scale of our two organizations in an agile way with a laser like focus on serving customers.
The new company will enable biopharmaceutical customers to enhance their drug development process support precision medicine through companion diagnostics and biomarket discovery and build value by creating more efficient effective organizations through leveraging the scale scientific expertise and operational excellence of the parent organizations.
We expect that over time that JV will have an accelerated growth rate achieve cost synergies and to be accretive to what our clinical trials testing business would have been on a standalone basis.
The JV structure addresses three of our five strategic points.
First it will help us accelerate growth in the near term for our clinical trials business and explore opportunities related to our longer term strategies on precision medicine companion diagnostics and creating value from our data.
Second it enables us to refocus on our core Diagnostic Information Services business without distraction.
And third with minimal capital that enables us to participate in expected synergies in a way that lets us deliver disciplined capital deployment.
Mark will provide some more color later on this exciting partnership.
For now both entities will continue to operator separately until the closing of the transaction which is anticipated to be no later than the third quarter of 2015.
Turning to our first quarter results we continue to make progress on our path forward delivering solid revenue EPS and operating income growth.
Revenues grew 5.3% $1.84 billion.
On an organic basis consolidated revenues grew almost 1%.
Adjusted cash EPS increased 13% to $1.05 and adjusted operating income increased 14%.
Our performance reflects improved execution and a stable business environment and we are able to grow despite a harsh winter that while is somewhat less severe than a year ago was particularly difficult in the Northeast portion of the United States where we have a strong presence.
Before I get into our strategy update Id like to talk about industry dynamics for utilization reimbursement and regulation.
Through the first quarter we continue to see stability in test volumes on a same provider basis.
We are encouraged by the process of adding more insured lives to the healthcare system as a result of the Affordable Care Act.
More states have been expanding their Medicaid programs including Pennsylvania during the quarter and we continue to see growth in our Medicaid volumes.
Medicaid expansion will bring new people into the healthcare system with the goal of identifying issues earlier to improve outcomes and reduce overall costs.
We actually saw this ourselves on a recent Quest Diagnostic Health Trend study.
This peer review publication in diabetes care found a significant double digit increase in diabetes diagnosis in states that expanded Medicaid coverage and no increase in states that did not.
On reimbursement we see less government pressure on the Clinical Lab Fee Schedule in 2015 than we have seen in the previous two years.
Ill start with the Doc-Fix.
Last week the President signed historic legislation titled the Medicare Access and CHIP Re-authorization Act to primarily reform the Medicare Physician Payment Methodology.
We are pleased that cuts to laboratory payments under Medicare were not included as part of the package.
This legislation also encourages payments based upon quality and encourages us to make the healthcare systems smarter without dining access.
This legislation is also directionally aligned with the HHS goals announced at January to tie traditional Medicare payments to quality or value through alternative payment models.
Both the legislation and HHS have outlined specific measurable goals and timelines for these value based reimbursement models.
We believe these emerging payment models will favor providers with scale that are more effective and efficient like us.
Next Id like to provide a status update on the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 or PAMA which calls for an orderly review of the Clinical Lab Fee Schedule.
Our industry continues to work constructively with CMS on effectively implementing PAMA legislation.
Just a few weeks ago I met with leaders at CMS and a delegation from our industry trade association to discuss the rule making progress that will govern any reimbursement changes.
During that meeting we reviewed our view of the industry and its participants.
We also discussed our shared goal of delivering an accurate complete and efficient data collection process.
We remain hopeful the rule making progress will be defined in 2015.
It will establish an approach to building a representative view of the market.
As this industry continues to evolve and mature we have the right strategy and team and are well positioned to continue to lead.
We continue to execute the companys 5-point strategy.
As a reminder our strategy is to restore growth drive operational excellence simplify the organization refocus on the core Diagnostic Information Services business and deliver disciplined capital deployment.
Now what Id like to do is to share a few comments on each of the elements of the strategy.
Well this was the second consecutive quarter of organic revenue growth on a consolidated basis.
We continue to focus on our core growth opportunities.
First we continued to focus on sales effectiveness.
Second we are getting traction on the Professional Laboratory Services agreements we signed last year; and third gene based esoteric testing revenues grew in the quarter at a faster rate in more than a year.
We continue to grow BRCA revenues which clearly benefited from Angelina Jolies ongoing public advocacy.
One way we differentiate ourselves is by advocating for open access for BRCA data for patients and clinicians.
In collaboration with our French research consortium Inserm we led the creation of BRCA share and open data share initiative.
Its goal is to accelerate research on BRCA and gene rotations particularly a variance of uncertain significance to improve the ability to predict which individuals are at risk of developing inherited breast ovarian and other cancers.
The Inserm collaboration is an example of how we are using our unmatched data and information assets to deliver insights to our customers that demonstrate the value that Quest provides.
Last quarter we told you about some new population health data analytics decision support tools we are developing.
We have been piloting our population health tools with several physician ACOs and health plans to evaluate disease states for their patient populations monitor compliance with specific testing protocols and identify gaps in care.
In this pilot our customers our now engaging with patients and healthcare professionals proactively encourage the appropriate use of screening and monitoring test to drive better health.
In addition to population and health tools we are making progress to delivering on what we call interactive insights to providers and patients.
Our interactive insight offer providers trendy data interactive features such as customizable reports and additional content such as videos and articles specific to conditions and disease.
IntelliTest Analytics is a web based secure portal that provides hospitals integrated delivery networks and physicians practices with data driven insights about test utilization patterns so they can adhere to clinically appropriately testing norms.
Care360 revenue cycle management helps customers manage denials of billing claims with a focus on improving patient and payer collections.
In November 2012 we established a new vision that spoke to the impact we have on peoples lives.
Our vision is empowering better health with diagnostic insights.
Our vision was in a central part of becoming more external and customer focused.
Since then weve made tremendous progress bringing the vision to life.
Well we are not just a lab; we are more than a lab.
We are a trusted partner and we provide deep clinical insights.
Our vision was the first step.
Next we needed to turn it into a compelling customer facing brand a simple consistent way to talk about Quest who we are the value we bring; in short what is the Quest difference.
Our new core brand idea is a powerful one.
It is action from insight.
Our brand strategy is based on three pillars; the idea that we inspire action from the work we do that we have limited answers or patients and healthcare providers and that we advocate better health for patients and communities.
This is a powerful idea that notion that from data comes insight from insight comes action the action that transforms lives.
Well as you can tell Im excited about what our new corporate position it means for Quest.
It translates our vision into a concise clear and actual brand that gives us an opportunity to reshape our place in the industry allowing us to continue to differentiate ourselves and not compete solely on price.
Brand is more than a logo and were tag lined.
To bring our band to life we have to change the way we think and talk of what we do.
Additionally we are engaging all of our 45 000 people with the direct impact on delivering this brand promise.
You will start to see the new brand in action in the coming weeks and months.
Next is our strategy for driving operational excellence.
We are well underway with planning the next phase of Invigorate which will extend our cost savings to $1.3 billion by the end of 2017.
As in the past we continue to update you on the progress as we go.
The third element of our strategy is to simplify against and strength our organization.
Weve been focusing on execution and building a performance oriented culture.
We are very pleased to be included recently as one of the Fortune Magazines Worlds Most Admired Companies.
Over the past year we have introduced a number of new management tools as part of the Quest management system.
We are rolling out a new leadership development initiative this month and as I visited more than a dozen of our major facilities in conjunction with our new brand rollout I found employees at all levels to be highly engaged and excited about the challenges ahead.
The fourth element of our strategy is to refocus on our core Diagnostic Information Services business.
We continue to make good progress and the joint venture with Quintiles is the most recently example of doing this.
After considering a broad range of options for our clinical trials business we found the joint venture was the best option to enable us to focus on the core while unlocking the value of this important business.
Well continue to review our portfolio and look at options for non-core assets and we always strive to build value for our shareholders.
And then finally we remain focused on the fifth element of our strategy delivering disciplined capital deployment.
During April we completed the refinancing of more than $1.2 billion of our debt that will lower interest rates for the year to come.
We paid our dividend at the increased rate and as noted earlier we think the joint venture with Quintiles will enable us to share in our future value creation without requiring significant capital outlays.
Now Mark will provide an overview on the first quarter financial performance walk you through the details of 2015 outlook which is based on our strength in the operational performance and in improving business environment.
Mark.
Thanks Steve.
Starting with revenues consolidated revenues of $1.84 billion increased by 5.3% versus the prior year and grew organically by 70 basis points.
Revenues for Diagnostic Information Services or DIS for short grew by 4.9% compared to the prior year.
Volume measured by the number of requisitions increased 5.6% versus the prior year while revenue per acquisition was lower than the prior year by 0.7%.
For DIS acquisitions contributed nearly 5% to revenues.
Excluding acquisitions DIS revenues volumes and revenue per acquisition were all essentially flat for the quarter.
I would like to share some addition context on these underline volumes and revenue per acquisition metrics.
First let me touch on the impact on the harsh winter.
As we have shared in the past our analysis is based on changes in volume versus trend for given geographies related to specific weather events.
Additionally we provide guidance based on historical weather patterns.
For the past two years weve experienced unusually severe winters however in 2012 we had a mild weather which resulted in upside to our expectations.
This year volumes were negatively impacted in the quarter by a harsh winter throughout much of the country and in particular the northeast.
While the impact was not as severe as a year ago it was worse than we anticipated.
We believe the impact of weather on the quarter was approximately $0.08 of EPS.
As a result we are pleased with the quarter and we were planning on better performance.
Turning to underlying revenue per acquisition we saw modest reimbursement pressure in the quarter that was in line with our expectations.
That reimbursement pressure was offset by favorable test and business mixtures.
Moving to our diagnostic solutions business which includes risk assessment clinical trials testing healthcare IT and our remaining products businesses revenues grew by 11% compared to the prior year.
We enjoyed strong growth during the quarter from our clinical trials products and risk assessment businesses.
Adjusted operating income for the quarter was $269 million or 14.6% of revenues compared to $236 million or 13.5% of revenues a year ago.
With comparable volumes essentially flat the improvement can be primarily attributed to the benefits of our business mix Invigorate program and M&amp;A related impacts including synergies.
These factors enabled us to improve gross margins and further leverage SG&amp;A.
As a result our adjusted operating income and earnings grew faster than revenues.
For the quarter adjusted EPS excluding amortization was $1.05 13% better than a year ago.
Amortization was $0.09 in both 2014 and 2015.
The company recorded after tax charges totaling $80 million in the quarter primarily associated with the debt refinance in the first quarter.
The charges also included restructuring and integration costs associated with our Invigorate program and recent acquisitions and combined to reduce reported EPS by $0.54.
Last years first quarter included after tax charges of $18 million primarily associated with restructuring and integration charges which reduced reported EPS by $0.13.
Let me share a few comments on special items.
As you think about special items because of their nature they do fluctuate from period to period.
This quarter we incurred a charge related to the first tranche of debt retire.
A second tranche of debt was redeemed in April which will result in a similar charge in the second quarter.
We expect to incur a total pre-tax charges of nearly $115 million related to our debt refinancing.
In addition to charges our special items also include benefits.
For example we anticipate recognizing a gain related to the joint venture with Quintiles at the time of closing.
This gain will occur when we contribute our clinical trials business into the joint venture which is expected to take place no later than the third quarter.
This gain is expected to be in the similar magnitude to the total charges associated with the debt retirement.
We will adjust this one time gain out of our earnings.
To put this in perspective since the beginning of 2012 the benefits adjusted out of earnings have been approximately the same amount as the charges adjusted out of earnings.
Bad debt expense as a percentage of revenues was 4.3% flat to a year ago.
As a reminder bad debt expense is typically highest in the first quarter due to increased patient responsibility associated with coinsurance and deductable requirements.
Our DSOs were 45 days three days lower than last quarter and four days lower than a year ago.
This is a testament to our operational excellence continuously demonstrated by our billing operations and patient service centers teams that continue to be effectively engaged with patients and payers to ensure that we get paid for the work we do.
Reported cash provided by operations was $52 million in the quarter; however excluding the $78 million of cash charges associated with the retirement of debt cash provided by operations would have been $130 million in the quarter versus $84 million a year ago.
Capital expenditures were $56 million in the quarter compared to $68 million a year ago.
Moving to guidance we expect full year 2015 results from continuing operations before special items as follows: Revenues to increase between 2% to 3% compared to 2014; adjusted diluted EPS excluding amortization expense to be between $4.70 and $4.85; adjusted cash provided by operations to approximate $850 million; and capital expenditures to approximate $300 million.
We have not included in our guidance the impact of contributing our clinical trials business to the JV with Quintiles largely because the impact will depend on the timing of the deals closing.
To help frame it our clinical trials testing revenue was in the range of approximately 2% of our consolidated revenues in 2014.
With respect to the impact of adjusted EPS we believe the JV will be essentially neutral in 2015.
We will provide more details when the deal closes later this year.
And as we noted on the investor call to announce the transaction once it closes we will no longer report the revenues in operating income from the clinical trials business in our income statement.
We will however reflect our share of the joint ventures earnings on the equity earnings line on our income statement.
This is where we report our current share of earning in our other three unconsolidated diagnostic information services joint ventures which are with leading regional integrated delivery networks.
Now let me turn it back to Steve.
Thanks Mark.
Well to summarize we delivered solid top and bottom line growth and improved profitability in the first quarter.
This is our second consecutive quarter of reported organic consolidated revenue growth.
We continue to make good progress executing our strategy and were excited to share more details on the joint venture with Quintiles when we close.
Thanks for your support.
Now wed be to take any of your questions.
Operator.
Thank you.
We will now open it up to questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question is from Mr.
Mike Cherny from Evercore ISI.
Sir your line is open.
Hi can you hear me? Yes good morning.
Yes were here.
I apologize for that.
So a question about volume growth.
It seems to be  you talked about an improvement from a market outlook perspective.
Obviously weather across the board is pretty nasty this year.
If I recall correctly I think your still rolling off the comp related some of the lower margin business that you guys decided to walk away from last year.
Is there any way you could provide us with a number of terms of what you think that took away from organic volume growth so we can try and get to a true number particularly one that correlates with the positive market competitor youve had.
Yes well first of all your right.
We are rolling off some of these businesses.
In the past we havent given you specifics on that.
Marks would you like to shed some light on sequentially our continued improvement? So Mike thanks for the question.
We have referenced at one point 150 basis points of volume differential.
Obviously we dont want to get into the habit of every single quarter reconciling that but directionally its the order of magnitude and what you might think of in terms of the impact on our volume.
We did also reference that we would annualize that at some point in the second quarter but also to be clear we took those actions in the second quarter so you shouldnt be expecting the year-over-year comp to be fully positive until the end of that quarter.
So its a similar level of volume as we also said although we continue to regularly look over our portfolio and ensure that all the volume is value creating volume.
That discreet set of actions we took during the second quarter of last year was kind of a one-time event and you shouldnt expect those kind of things to happen again at any sort of regularity.
Yes so Mike let me just add to Marks comments.
What were doing is continuing to focus our energy on parts of the market that arent growing and defocusing on those parts that arent and thats related to our earlier remarks about what we are doing with our resources and accounts.
But the things we wanted to see grow are growing in the quarter.
We did mention that we saw the highest growth rate in our gene esoteric testing business this quarter we are happy about that.
We continue to see good growth in our wellness business our prescription drug monitoring business Hepatitis C.
All the areas that we focused on for growth are progressing nicely and as you know I mentioned in my commentary BRCA as well.
So the focus is good.
Sequentially we are seeing improvement and the momentum continues to build so we feel good about that.
No.
Thanks guys.
Thats really helpful in understanding the underlying dynamics.
And then just quickly on BRCA specifically I know you called out about esoteric which is quite strong in the quarter and BRCA is a particular driver.
Is it possible at this point given that its been a number of quarters since you first launched that test to give a sense of the sizing of that business roughly to at least the esoteric base and over the course of this year how important you think the growth specifically there could potentially be? Were not going to spell out the business.
I mean obviously as you look at it its magnitude relative to the overall size of the class.
We dont get into that detail and business of that size and certainly its growing.
Its one of the areas we called out previously and it continues to be a growth area along with prescription drug monitoring and certainly HCB our special laboratory services there.
So BRCA continues to provide growth that were not going to give any granularity at this point of sharing the actual revenues.
No thats fine.
Id figure Id try anyway.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Our next question is from Mr.
Isaac Ro from Goldman Sachs.
Hi Isaac Very good morning guys thank you.
First question was just on the weather commentary you had.
I was wondering if you could maybe try and ballpark the volume impact.
I think I missed that and then the second question had to do a little bit with the financial.
Thats great.
Mark you want to give some more color.
We gave you an EPS impact of relationship to last year.
Yes.
So from a volume perspective and revenue its probably in the area of around 150 basis points.
So last year we talked about a 2% headwind due to weather.
This year as I said not quite as severe but a fairly large differential from kind of what we would expect to be an average weather based on looking at historical patterns.
Sure thats helpful thanks.
And then just in terms of market share I simply sort of my square out your commentary on volume and some of the benefits your seeing from your growth initiatives.
How do you feel about your market share and then just last one was on tax rate obviously a bit low this quarter.
You had some one-timers but how should we think about tax rate for the rest of the year? We continue to feel good about where we are focused in the market and where we are focusing we are picking up share we feel good about that.
As we mentioned in the past we are deciding in some portion of our portfolio to not participate and so in those areas obviously were losing some share.
But overall were trying to manage our business and the portfolio of resources we have to get the best of earnings growth.
What you see in the quarter and were happy to show is that we actually reported nice operating income growth and I think its a good indication of our business mix and our focus on those areas of growth and how its driving some portion of our margin expansion which we called out in the script.
So you want to mention Mark whats going on with tax? So obviously periodically you can get some discreet items in your tax line and you can always anticipate those.
So we did have a couple of small items actually they were that large in Q1 but the direction we gave going to the year was that our tax rate will be higher than it was in 2014 and it would be more in line with historical levels and so I think thats what your expectation should be for the balance of the year.
Got it.
Thanks so much guys.
Thanks Isaac.
Thank you sir.
The next question is from Mr.
Ricky Goldwasser from Morgan Stanley.
Hey Ricky.
Hi good morning.
I have two questions here.
So first of all now that youve refinanced the debt any thoughts about buybacks and acquisitions for the remainder of the year.
I think it wasnt included in the original guidance.
Do you see it at this point representing upside to numbers? Yes.
So Id say obviously there was kind of cash required Ricky.
Im sure thats why your tying it to what are the implications for buybacks and I think at this point the guidance we gave is consistent which is you shouldnt assume any significant reduction in shares outstanding based on repurchases we committed to targeting to insure there is no dilution from the share account but not any significant buyback to reduce shares.
Now with that said we have a strategy of deploying some of our cash every year to target 1% to 2% of growth through M&amp;A and weve also said that if there was not some value creative M&amp;A that we can identify that we will do more share repurchases.
So I dont want to completely rule out share repurchases but at this point as part of our strategy were continuing to look and wed like to believe that we can add some businesses tuck in hold in type businesses weve done in the past and that would probably be our priority for cash in the balance of the year.
But should we find that theres nothing thats executable certainly we would use that cash for more share repurchases.
Okay.
And then one follow-up question on ACH because obviously we are seeing this kind of like more and more lines joining the exchanges but I think we are still not quite seeing that kind of like pull through on the volume side.
Could you share with us your thoughts? What do you think is kind of like causing it? Is it that this population is consuming healthcare through kind of like hospital systems router the ambulatory space? Is it that you think that they dont still know how to utilize healthcare and were going to see the opportunity kind of like later in the year.
I mean any insight would be very helpful there.
Yes like you and everyone else in this market was trying to digest the resorting if you will for the system and as we mentioned in our commentary we are seeing an increase in Medicaid volumes so thats for sure and we see that.
As far as the rest its hard to understand where people have come from went to and how they are entering the healthcare system.
So we have seen like you some of the volume reports coming out of some hospitals not all.
Its mixed views on that so we are still trying to understand how this will all sort out with you.
But again were starting to see the impact of more lives in the system.
Were hopeful.
From the beginning of ACA we said we believe that the Affordable Care Act should be net positive for the industry and for us.
We believe more people in insurance is a good thing.
The diabetes studies that we showed shows that by having people with insurance it can have a positive impact on population health and we think thats a good example of how more people in the system will serve the industry well but also us as we go forward so were hopeful.
So then just  last one because you mentioned the population health.
You highlighted the pilot that youre doing with some physician offices on your population health tool.
Should we think about  kind of how should we think about that business model? Should we think about it as a potentially longer term revenue opportunity or is it just kind of like needed aid value to create stickiness with the physician and potentially connect also with the hospital provider space.
Yes were thinking of both actually and we havent totally sorted it out how this might work in terms of the business model.
Clearly where we could show more value with accounts we believe that does offer value in terms of our business but secondly as we provide more and more value to integrated delivery systems and those organizations that are managing populations we do have valuable assets here information assets and this application we think is actually very valuable in terms of managing that population and were thinking our way through.
May there be an opportunity for us actually to have a revenue business model for this but we havent concluded on that yet.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you maam.
The next question is from Ms.
Lisa Gill from J.P.
Morgan.
Good morning Lisa.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
Can you just maybe two things around the new JV.
First off I think that Steve I heard you say that clinical trial testing was about 2% in 2014.
So should we think about that as being a 50 basis point headwind for the back half of this year? It sounds like the volume actually wont go through your volume but will come from a below the line items for the JV.
Right.
Mark why dont you walk through how this will get sorted out on a go forward basis? Yes thats correct.
Depending on the timing if you want to call it a headwind it will be an adjustment so obviously we wont be the controlling interest as the minority owner.
We have a fair amount of involvement in the JV; we have a number of our senior leaders who are involved with clinical trials moving into that business; weve got an executive we talked about in the past.
John Heins [ph] who is actually going to be sitting on the board and involved in this JV so while for accounting purposes we are no longer going to be recording it as a revenue and were no longer going to be reporting the income on the operating margin line.
Its not as if were completely distancing ourselves from the clinical trials business.
In fact through the partnership were looking to drive even more in this relationship as we referenced in the earlier companion diagnostics and then potentially using our data for clinical trial enrollment as well.
So yes in terms of engineering it will be a headwind on revenue but from an earnings standpoint were really just in 2015 moving it from one line to the other and then most importantly we believe its going to be significantly accretive to what we would have done otherwise with clinical trials in 2016 and beyond.
So Mark the way that Im trying to think about it just from a modeling perspective and your guidance today of reiteration of your revenue expectations for 2015 and just given your comments around the weather in the first quarter Im just trying to square that up with how to think about the next three quarters and your expectations around both volumes as well as revenue growth and did you see something that you feel confident to maintain that number because if I remember correctly you gave that guidance before you announced the Quintiles JV? Right so Lisa my apologies let me make sure Im clear.
So despite whether we still believe the 2% to 3% top line guidance is attainable; however as I said in my prepared remarks I will be adjusting that for the JV once I know the timing.
So we will be reducing that 2% to 3% revenue growth guidance impacted by the JV nothing related to weather.
Okay great.
And then just Mark my second follow-up question is also for you.
Its just around SG&amp;A in the quarter and where you are on the cost saving initiatives.
The SG&amp;A came in a little bit higher than we anticipated but your gross profits are a little bit higher.
Im just wondering around the timing aspect of that again.
How do we think about the cost savings initiatives coming in over the next year or so? Sure.
So again I dont look at any one specific model so not sure why we may have been different than what you were expecting but I can talk about SG&amp;A.
Obviously Invigorate contributes to build our cost of sales as well as SG&amp;A.
We continue to make progress on Invigorate.
If you look quarter-to-quarter SG&amp;A was fairly flat in dollar terms.
We do have that headwind every year at the beginning of the year from bad debt so we did get about 30 basis points of increase from bad debt.
That is typical cycle of bad debt at the beginning of the year.
It tends to be higher than the end of the year so we are very comfortable with managing of SG&amp;A.
You can see that weve leveraged it significantly versus last year and as part of our Invigorate program we expect to continue the leverage there.
Okay very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you maam.
The next question is from Mr.
A.J.
Rice from UBS.
Sir your line is open.
Good morning A.J.
You there? Mr.
Rice your line is open.
A.J.
are you on mute.
It looks like we lost Mr.
A.J.
Rice but next question comes from Mr.
Bryan Brokmeier from Maxim Group.
Sir your line is open.
You may proceed.
Hi good morning.
Did you say that the organics volume was flat and is that excluding any business that youre walking away from or is that just M&amp;A? Mark you want to take it? Yes so I didnt make any adjustment before.
As we talked about the business we sort of walked away from.
That is an actual number so we were just talking our results and were adjusting for M&amp;A to get to that figure.
So the walk aways we talked about in the past are not adjusted out of that.
So that would be based on the earlier comments of lift if you want to look at that.
Yes we would have shown growth and I adjusted for that.
Okay and NIPT is another large market that youre currently participating in for a partnership.
Can you provide any color on when youre planning to launch your own test? Well first of all its going well.
So as I mentioned earlier were quite pleased with our growth rate in advanced and esoteric testing and our non-evasive testing is  pre natal testing is going quite well so were hopeful about that.
We continue to work through our own test as you say.
We havent announced a specific data on that but were making very good progress.
Okay thank a lot.
Thank you sir.
Our next question is from Mr.
Darren Lehrich from Deutsche Bank.
Sir your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Its Dana Nentin in for Darren.
Hey Dana.
Hey.
So just going back to your DSOs being down through your four days from last year I was wondering if you could provide any color there as it relates to the [inaudible] payment recoveries and I guess if not can you update us on the status of those non-payments? Yes its not related in any way to that.
Largely it points to UMass the acquisition of that business.
Last year as we were transitioning the billing system from them to us there was some complexity in that and it slowed some collections down a bit and inflated our receivables Id say relative to what they would have been otherwise last year.
So now that weve gotten that behind us Id say thats probably the biggest probably year-over-year.
So its really nothing at all related to molecular.
Okay.
And can you update us on the size of those non-payments? Yes were making progress.
Were judiciously going after our payments for what we do.
Were working with all the health plans to do that and I could share with you that if you did that we are progressing through doggedly working through test by test payer by payer to make sure we get paid for the good work we provide so you feel like were making progress.
But I do want to clarify because if weve taken this question a number of times in the past and consistently given our response we are not expecting any sort of significant windfall.
While certainly this is a headwind and I think youve heard from maybe other people in the laboratory area about significant reductions in payments based on some of the changes whether its CBT 2013 or now CBT 2015 or other changes in the reimbursement requirement.
So while theres certainly been a headwind its not material to our performance this year and it should not be something that you expect at some point were going to come back and say hey we solved a bunch of issues and heres a big good bag.
Okay great thats helpful.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Next question is from Mr.
Robert Willoughby from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Sir your line is open.
Hi Steve and Mark.
Your approaching a year of ownership now of solicitors.
Can you speak to retention rates of the business there what synergies have been captured whats left on the table there? Yes so were making excellent progress with the inspiration of solicitors.
What we did in that geography is to really combine both of our businesses together and so were integrating operations were integrating our G&amp;A functions some portion of the improvement you see in our SG&amp;A.
This quarter is related to that good work were doing there.
We also have integrated the sales force.
As you know when you buy any organization we had planned on some attrition related to clients that we know that would not move over to us and have planned that in our model and were tracking to make sure that we did have it planned.
So we feel good about the progress that we made and we feel good about what were delivering in terms of creating value for our shareholders.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
The next question is from Ms.
Amanda Murphy from William Blair.
Maam your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
I guess just a couple of follow-ups on the reimbursement side.
So you mentioned the growth on the esoteric front and BRCA specifically but just curious as you think forward.
Obviously there is a lot of opportunity particularly in sequencing based diagnostics.
Whats your view on the reimbursement environment there specifically? I know there has been some work to establish some coding there so curious just thinking about that this year and then longer term? We deliver a lot of value.
As you know the average market price has come down over the last year and a half two years.
We believe where we are right now is supporting the plan we have going forward.
We feel good about that and well continue to as weve done with everything in our business; continue to have the data that justifies that were putting a lot of value here and we need to make sure we get back in our reimbursement the value it delivers.
So were going to be careful before we do anything.
In terms of pricing changes we believe that defending and continuing to differentiate ourselves in the marketplace is important for us.
We think its important for the industry to continue to defend and get our value back for the marketplace.
Theres a great value we deliver and thats position we continue to take going forward.
So Mark anything youd like to add? Yes Amanda Im sure as you fully appreciate especially in the gene based area reimbursement is related also to your offering.
Its not an independent decision.
So look at our onc [ph] advantage product and the fact that we have a panel of actionable genes 34 actionable genes and as we engage with the payers I think the response is the dialog with our medical professionals and so on is you know fairly positive because of the fact that we are moving forward with the limited panel that is actually all around the action.
So as Steve talked about earlier data brings insights insights to drive actions and I think the payers are much more willing to pay for things where clearly there is a path towards actions.
So again not commenting on anybody elses offerings its not the same for the all of it.
Certainly the choices we make around our product offerings and the size of the panels and the action ability of those panels also influences our ability to get paid.
And one follow-up to that is there any way that you can give as an idea as how big that business is for you now.
Obviously esoteric encompasses quite a lot but if you think about just sequencing I guess as a bucket how big that is and how much of your growth on esoteric is coming from that side of the world.
I know you mentioned BRAC again but...
Mark and Dan should talk a little bit about how we breakup things in our 10-K.
Amanda we break out the gene based and esoteric in the 10-K we shared on the supplemental analysis on the website.
So overall gene based esoteric and Anatomic Pathology is about $2.5 billion business but in terms of specifics sub-segments and different cuts of the data at the level of granularity you are looking for we havent share that at this point.
Okay thanks guys.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
Nicholas Jansen from Raymond James.
Sir your line is open.
Yes Mark this one is for you on free cash flow.
I think the guidance this year is $550 million but that certainly excludes some things like the debt restructuring charges and some of the project Invigorate 2.0 charges.
So Im just trying to get a sense of actually how much true free cash flow is available this year.
I know you have a dividend payment I know you guidance includes kind of 1% to 2% revenue growth from M&amp;A.
So maybe just walk me through the cash flow dynamics.
The only thing that Im excluding is the debt refinancing so Im not adjusting for any of the Invigorate expenses.
So as we talked about it was $78 million in the quarter.
We talked about the fact that wed have a somewhat similar charge in the second quarter.
So that should guide you.
I mean at the end of the day we are expecting somewhere a little less that $100 million of expense from the refinancing.
So the $550 million less that will be kind of I guess the free cash flow number that you are looking for that takes the new account to cash expenditures for other adjustments.
And again we have some positive guys that we adjust out but actually they are cash positive as well.
So when you net all those out normally we dont many adjustments but just given the size and I guess the unusual nature of the debt refinancing I decided to adjust that just to make the year over year comparison what I thought was a little more meaningful and comparable.
Okay thats helpful.
And then regarding the $0.08 weather headwind.
Im just trying to reconcile that relative to what you reported.
So I guess on the previous conference call you talked about having 1Q earnings only slightly better than 2Q to 4Q.
If we were added $0.08 back to the $1.05 that would be meaningfully better than slightly.
So Im just trying to reconcile kind of the quarter relative to your internal expectations that you gave back in January and kind of how that proceeds to the guidance that was reiterated today.
Thank you for the question.
Obviously when we spoke to you in January we hadnt incurred the February weather but we had incurred some January weather.
So we were trying at that point with the knowledge that we had at that point we just wanted to make sure that people didnt get overly exuberant about the potential of the first quarter given the easy compare with the weather in 2014.
So yes a couple of things.
One is we probably formed a little more stronger than we expected in the first quarter adjusting for the weather so had the weather not been there it would have been a really really strong quarter.
There is various reasons for that.
However Ill go back and say the guidance that I gave today is something that we are very confident in and whatever the performance in the first quarter you just assume that guidance is reasonable and thats where we are going to land.
Thanks for the clarification.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Next question is from Mr.
Brian Tanquilut from Jefferies.
Sir your line is open you may proceed.
Good morning.
Hey good morning guys.
Just a quick question for you on the hospital side.
So I know weve talked about in the past how the opportunity is for these hospitals to look to outsource their labs.
We are hearing more and more about payer pressure on commercial pricing for the hospital based labs and also narrow network strategies specifically you know Anthem Indiana Kentucky and Ohio.
So are we seeing more of that or is the pressure accelerating in the hospitals that you are starting to see more conversations with hospital CEOs.
As I mentioned in the past Brian the discussions were having and the opportunity list that we have and that we are working is larger than we ever anticipated.
Most CEOs and CFOs have lab strategies as part of their shortlist were encouraged by all that.
The dynamic you mentioned we think is a very positive dynamic.
As weve talked about we offer great value.
We have some of the best pricing for the quality we deliver in this market place and therefore in terms of value we are in the strongest of the choices people have.
And yes payers are now starting to look at every tightening their network further but wide variation in prices from what we have here versus hospital outreach are notable and yes its from the payers but I also mentioned two other dimensions to that.
Employers are spending a lot more time on their healthcare costs and seeing wide variations so they are starting to ask questions.
And most importantly consumers with a higher co-pay in deducible have now started to ask questions.
Why would their bills go up just because physicians are now working for integrated Delivery Systems verses when those physicians used to send the work to independent laboratories like ourselves.
So all this is coming together and in a good way.
Most hospitals we talked to realize with payment models moving away from fee for service to population health and bundle payment models that no longer is an incentive to  or they are no longer incentives to drive volume and activity but look at how they deliver the best quarter to healthcare with the lowest possible cost thats what we saw at the University of Massachusetts.
And then second some do see and realize that they do have a melting ice-cream cone with some of the differential commercial rates that they enjoy today on their hospital outreach.
Therefore they are taking to us and thinking about what their options should be.
So its coming together nicely.
We actually applaud whats happening with Anthem.
We think its a positive change for the industry and a positive indication that there is a catalyst out there in the system to start to get the discussions started and move this at an accelerated pace.
Got it.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mr.
David Clair from Piper Jaffray.
Sir your line is open.
You may proceed.
Yes good morning everybody.
So Im just curious given the timing of the PAMA final rule it sounds like they are going to miss the initial June proposed rule deadline.
So how would you handicap the odds of the clinical lab fee schedule reprising happening by 2017? Well David Ill leave the odds giving to Las Vegas.
Hard to handicap CMS hard to handicap anything that happens in Washington.
As I mentioned we were down there last month; we being myself and some members of our industry.
We had a very good conversation.
Its complex and they are working through all that complexity.
With all the different entities that we have to give them their data all the different codes they have to look through all the different tax IDs and so they are digesting all of that.
So with all that said it is still their goal and thats how they say it still their goal to have the rule making out in 2015 for collection in the 16 for 17 a refresh to the clinical lab fee schedule.
So thats the gold they are still working at.
Okay.
Thank you and then I was wondering was the debt refinance included in your original EPS guidance and if it wasnt whats the offset to the interest savings that we are going to see in the year.
And so Im sure as you appreciate when put guidance together you got a number of items to consider and various ranges I know for modeling purposes you always need a discreet entry but we are considering ranges of potential outcomes and inputs.
So certainly we had a reasonable expectation we might do the debt refinancing we didnt know exactly the timing we didnt know exactly what the new interest rate might be and hence the interest savings.
So at this point since I reaffirmed guidance and EPS assume that the interest savings is in there and I cant really call out an offset because we still have $0.15 of range within the guidance.
So its within the parameters of all the different contributors to how the EPS was driven and so I couldnt tell you exactly what the offset was because there isnt necessarily because we are still within a range thats quire broad.
Okay thank you.
Thank you sir.
The next question is from Mr.
Jack Meehan from Barclays.
Sir your line is open.
You may proceed.
Hi Jack.
Hi good morning guys.
I want to sort of just ask about the new BRAC data sharing initiative you announced earlier this week and just the background how it came together.
And then timing wise just curious why now? Obviously youve been on the market 18 months and I think there is a lot of differing thoughts on the merits of the U.S.
So just in terms of it being a metric what are you seeing on the market? First of all we responded quickly to the opportunity to enter the BRCA market.
After the Supreme Court ruling we entered the market about four months afterwards.
So we entered into the market.
And as we approach all businesses Jack we continue to look at ways that we can get better at what we do.
So weve been improving our offering in terms of our capabilities of our sales force capabilities of our generic counselor capabilities of the quality of our reporting and the look and feel of our interactive insights as I talked about it in my remarks.
But also we are looking at how do we get the actually results to be of higher quality and we only have so much data.
We believe it would be the right thing to do to take our data combine it with other peoples data.
The inserm being the French Institute for Health has 16 labs that report their data gain.
We are also happening to have LabCorp participate in this.
So we are going to put in both of data thats into Inserm and we believe that this is just the beginning there will be others to follow.
In the outcome of this we believe it will be an outcome of the curation and also the analytics around that data to produce better sensitivity and specificity around the testing for BRAC and we think thats a good thing for the industry and a good thing for us.
So we think this is the next step of improving and delivering a great solution to the market place at a better way.
We will continue to differentiate ourselves and everything I just described how we sell it how we support it how we present it and how we explain its in our solution to the market place which we think will allow us to continue to differentiate ourselves versus the other options that our customers have.
So we think its progress in the right direction.
Yes got it.
And then just maybe off that; is there a way to gauge a sense for just collectively the contribution in terms of volumes and just you know where you think it needs to be in order to have similar VUS rates and if thats a good metric to consider? So we are not going to see any sort of detail on the volumes that are contributed.
In the French the institute has been collecting data for 10 years.
So there is a fair amount of data.
Obviously youve got us and LabCorp who have decided its in the best interest of patients to contribute come out to better data information.
We are going to compete on other aspects of our product offering than anything around the science.
And again back to the VUS this is not about VUS.
This is really about insuring we have the best ability to provide information to patients and therefore we wont get into sort of the medical comparisons or anything like that; thats not why we are doing this.
We are not doing this for competitive reasons.
We are doing this because its in the best interest of patients.
Got it and if I can squeeze in one more maybe just for Mark curious if you are seeing anything on the deductable side and any changes to start the year in terms of the prevalence of high deductible health plans.
I mean its still early for us to know whether there has been a large hit.
I mean obviously weve built into our assumptions that continued trend towards more high deductable plans for a reported based provider insurance.
We did have the usual first quarter lift in bad debts like our efforts in some of it and so forth so nothing I can share of detail at this point.
Okay thanks guys.
Thank you and our last question is from Mr.
A.J.
Rice.
Sir you line is open you may proceed.
Thanks.
Hi everybody sorry about earlier.
Just two quick areas of question; first on the upcoming JV with Quintiles is it generally in the ballpark to think of the operating margins.
Thank you that you gave us to revenues.
The operating margins on the clinical trial business you are contributing are somewhere close to the corporate average and then as you think about the JV on an ongoing basis will there be either cash commitments on your part going forward after the JV setup or will you be taking  have opportunities to take cash out.
What are the cash flow implications of the JV? Right so A.J.
I wont get into the specifics but the clinical trials businesses is not materially different from its order of magnitude; its margin is similar the overall enterprise.
Obviously you get a lot more granularity on that when you start seeing the changes in our equity earnings line going forward.
In terms of cash there is just some initial cash from a working capital standpoint thats not significant because we are going to continue to kind of wean down the receivables of our business and keep that as opposed to contributing that to the venture.
So at the end of the day thats going to about a wash.
We have an annual  and its part of the contract.
We have an annual ability to take out cash dividend as will Quintiles as well.
So we are expecting to get cash contributions out of the JV going forward.
And in terms of any sort of future cash needs its part of this agreement.
We have the ability to both to contribute cash if you want to do more M&amp;A through the partnerships or there some other investment opportunity that going forward agrees make sense.
There is an ability to bring cash into the entity.
So we feel its pretty flexible in terms of cash but we certainly are expecting to get our fair share of cash out of this entity going forward as well.
Okay and then maybe just one other follow-up.
I think you had said this before and I think its my sense of the industry overall but when you think about the larger contracts with payers and others that this is a relatively benign year that doesnt have a lot of re-contracting activity but I just wanted to put that out there and confirm that that is indeed the cash if its true.
So independent of whether we had a lot of re-contracting.
What we have said is that the pricing pressure the price erosion in 2015 is to be more similar to 14 and in 14 it was less than a 100 basis points and Im not going to get into the specifics of how close is it going to be 14 but more like 14 and I also said that as part of the Investor Day that I would expect 16 and 17 to also be more like 14.
Okay all right thanks a lot.
Sure.
Okay no further questions.
Thanks again for joining the call today.
As you can see we are making good progress executing our strategy.
We are excited about the clinical trials opportunity.
We appreciate your support and you have a great day.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for participating in the Quest Diagnostics first quarter 2015 conference call.
A transcript of prepared remarks on this call will be posted later today on Quest Diagnostics website at <u>www.questdiagnostics.com</u>.
A replay of the call may be accessed online at <u>www.questdiagnostics.com/investor</u> or by phone at 866-430-5847 for domestic callers or 203-369-0933 for international callers.
Telephone replays will be available from 10:30 AM Eastern Time today until midnight Eastern time on may 23 2015.
Goodbye.