Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America’s Builder the largest builder in the United States first quarter 2011 earnings release conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Tomnitz CEO and President of D.R.
Horton.
Thank you.
Mr.
Tomnitz.
You may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; and Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Vice President and Controller.
Before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton’s annual report on Form 10-K which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? Thank you Stacey.
As we expected our first quarter was challenged.
The fundamental drivers of demand for the homebuilding industry the overall economy job growth and consumer confidence are still weak even though recent reports show some small improvements nationally.
Our year-ago comps for both sales and closing were very strong due to the original expiration date of the federal homebuyer tax credit.
Our divisions worked hard to generate sales and closings during this seasonally slow quarter.
And our backlog conversion rate was historically high at 88% but was below the near 100% or better conversion rates we achieved while the tax credits were in place.
We are hopeful that we will see a good seasonal increase in sales demand in the upcoming spring season.
However given the weak macroeconomic conditions high levels of existing homes for sale and tight mortgage availability we remain cautious and realistic in our expectations and we will adjust our business to compete in the current market conditions.
We are prepared for the spring season.
We plan to continue to open new communities adjust our price points and product offerings to the demand we see in each of our individual markets.
Mike? Our net loss for the quarter was $20.4 million or $0.06 per diluted share compared to net income of $192 million or $0.56 per diluted share in the prior year quarter.
Homebuilding pretax loss was $24.1 million which included $8.4 million of inventory impairment and lot option charges.
Financial services pretax income was $4.2 million which included $1.8 million of recourse expense.
Bill? Our first quarter home sales revenues decreased 31% to $761.1 million on 3 637 homes closed from $1.1 billion on 5 529 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was up 4% from the prior year and down 3% sequentially to $209 300.
Don? Net sales orders for the first quarter were down 17% from last year to 3 363 homes.
The net sales orders in the prior year quarter included strong demand in October from the first time homebuyer tax credit that was in effect last year.
Based on current sales demand and the fact that tax credits were supporting sales last year through April we expect that achieving positive sales comparisons in the next two quarters will be difficult.
While we remain focused on opening new communities and gaining market share for us to see significant sustainable sales growth we need to see improvements in the overall economy the jobs landscape and consumer confidence.
In the December quarter our average sales price on net sales orders was essentially flat year-over-year at $209 800.
Our cancellation rate was 28%.
Our active selling communities were up 3% sequentially.
Our sales backlog decreased 7% from the prior year to 3 854 homes or $795.4 million.
Stacey? As we mentioned on our year-end conference call we expected gross margin pressure in fiscal 2011 as we continued to adjust to the prevailing markets in each of our communities.
This was evident in our first quarter results as our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the first quarter was 15.6% down 150 basis points from a year ago period and down 140 basis points sequentially.
The margin decline reflected the weaker housing market we continued to experience during the second half of the calendar year.
Mike? In our first quarter impairment analysis we reviewed all projects in the company and determined that projects with a pre-impairment carrying value of $26.2 million were impaired which resulted in $6.4 million of impairment charges the majority of which were in California and Arizona.
We referred to our projects which have indicators of potential impairment but were not impaired as our watch list which represents those projects deem to be of the highest risk for future impairments.
After this quarter’s impairments our watch list now totals $408.1 million up from $346.7 million at September with the largest concentrations in California Illinois and Florida.
Our inventory impairment process in future quarters will incorporate any changes in market conditions and any adjustments we make in our business.
Stacey? In the first quarter we reduced our homebuilding SG&amp;A expense which includes all corporate overheads both year-over-year and sequentially to $118.9 million.
However with the decrease in homes closed SG&amp;A expense increased to 15.5% of homebuilding revenues compared to 11.6% in the year-ago quarter.
We will continue to actively manage our SG&amp;A levels relative to our expected number of homes closed.
Bill? Homebuilding interest expense was $16.2 million for the quarter which represented 46% of the homebuilding interest we incurred.
We directly expense a portion of our interest incurred when our homebuilding debt level exceeds our active inventory.
Our first quarter homebuilding interest incurred decreased 29% compared to the prior year to $35.2 million.
We expect that our interest incurred and our direct interest expense to be lower in fiscal 2011 than in fiscal 2010 due to the $1 billion of debt reduction that we achieved last year.
Mike? Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $4.2 million compared to $6.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
82% of our mortgage company’s business was captive during the quarter.
Our companywide capture rate was approximately 62% our average FICO score was 708 and our average combined loan-to-value was 92%.
Our product mix in the quarter was essentially 100% agency-eligible with government loans accounting for 61% of our volume.
Don? Our total inventory decreased by approximately $29 million excluding non-cash impairment charges during the quarter.
We reduced our homes and inventory by $66.9 million and increased our investment in residential land and lots by $45.5 million.
Our homes and inventory at the end of December totaled 9 100 homes down 400 homes from September.
1 200 of our homes were models 5 000 were speculative homes and 3 000 of these specs were completed.
We reduced both our total and completed specs by 200 homes during the quarter.
We continue to manage our total homes and inventory relative to our expectations of sales demand and we offer spec homes primarily to accommodate our first-time and relocation buyers.
Bill? Our land and lot purchases remain controlled and we continue to evaluate our land development plans based on our current sales trends.
We have been actively contracting for finished lots to increase our active selling communities sales closings and profitability.
In our first fiscal quarter our total land lot and development investments were $188 million primarily in finished lots.
In fiscal 2011 our spending on finished lots will remain largely dependent on our sales pace while our spending on land and development costs will continue to be at low levels.
Mike? At December 31 we owned approximately 89 000 lots of which approximately 24 000 are finished.
We control an additional 31 000 lots through option contracts up 5% from September 30 with a net earnest money deposit balance for these lots of only $12.4 million.
We are focused on managing our supply of owned finished lots in line with our sales demand in a low-risk capital-efficient manner.
Bill? Cash flow from operations for the December quarter totaled $49.5 million generated by the decrease in homes and inventory and mortgage loans held for sale partially offset by a decrease in payables and liabilities and our spending on finished lots and development.
We ended the quarter with $1.5 billion of homebuilding cash and marketable securities.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at December 31 was $2 billion which reflects the repurchase of $62.5 million of notes during the quarter.
Our note maturities in fiscal 2011 and 2012 are $177 million and $133 million respectively.
We have $421 million remaining on our debt repurchase authorization at December 31 2010.
Stacey? At December 31 our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash and marketable securities was 17% an 11 percentage point improvement from a year ago.
Gross homebuilding leverage at December 31 was 43.9% a 9 percentage point improvement from a year ago.
These leverage improvements are due primarily to our significant debt reductions and cash flow generations.
Don? There are still challenges in the homebuilding industry; rising foreclosures significant existing home inventory high unemployment tight mortgage lending standards and weak consumer confidence.
However as we have mentioned before new home inventory remains low interest rates are favorable and housing affordability is near record highs.
In addition we are beginning to see small improvements in national consumer confidence and unemployment although their impact varies significantly from market to market.
In two weeks the spring selling season beginnings in earnest and we will begin to get a much better read on demand.
We will also see if the small improvements in consumer confidence and jobs are sustainable.
Over the last three years D.R.
Horton has increased our national market share of new home sales by 50% from 3.8% to 5.8%.
Our long-term strategy has proven successful throughout the downturn and we will continue our focus on providing affordable homes increasing our number of active selling communities over a broad geographic footprint controlling our costs maintaining our strong balance sheet and profitably outselling our competition in each and every market and community.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And we’ll now entertain questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) Our first question is coming from the line of Steven East with Ticonderoga Securities.
Please state your question.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Steven.
If you look at your gross margin decline it sounds like you’re really just trying to hit the market and then sending what you think is an appropriate way.
Am I interpreting that right? And can you talk about what your spec strategy is moving forward? I know last spring you had lot of specs that you wanted to put out into the market because of the tax credit.
Has your thought process changed? Are you trying to reduce that spec and the gross margin impact moving forward between incentives and specs? You’re correct that we have had a strong spec strategy.
I would say to you that our gross margin decline really is a function of the competition in the marketplace as one of my regional presidents stated also as it doesn’t do any good to have an unrealistic gross margin out there on the house of – it is above what the market is going to pay.
So we have adjusted our gross margins on a market-by-market subdivision-by-subdivision and house-by-house basis.
We have reduced our specs on our total inventory this quarter.
I would say to you that that will probably increase at the end of the next quarter depending upon our sales but we are loaded – locked and loaded as I say with our specs on the ground anticipating a much better spring selling season than our past sales have reflected.
So I think we’re definitely ready for the spring selling season.
Okay.
And then on – along those lines have you all started to see any uptick in traffic you had or is it just too early for you? I know you said a couple weeks from now you’ll have a better but just sort of what you’re seeing in your early take.
And the other question is where you think community growth goes this year and how much land spend do you think you have to put into it? I’m not a big traffic guy but D.R.
is on the road this week and has been going through Louisiana and Alabama on his way to Florida.
And he is happier than I’ve heard him in a long time and it’s been based upon the amount of traffic that he is actually seeing in our model homes.
So I would say to you that based upon his input and my input being on the road we are seeing more traffic.
And I think that’s a very good thing in terms of where we see the market coming for this spring selling season.
Absolutely.
And on the community growth and the land spend? Yes Steven.
In terms of active communities our strategy is to continue to increase our community count.
Obviously we have older communities rolling off.
So there is a netting effect but our strategy is to continue to try to incrementally improve our communities.
Active selling communities were up 3% sequentially this quarter up about 18% year-over-year.
So that continues to go.
In terms of our land and lot spend essentially on our finished lots we’re basically replenishing the lots that we are selling through.
Our finished lots supply has changed a whole lot.
If we see better sales we would expect that to start increasing to max those sales.
Our total spend on finished lots land and development this quarter of $188 million is basically roughly in line with the pace that we spent last year.
We spent a little over $800 million last year.
So I wouldn’t see a major shift in that unless we see a major shift in the sales pace.
Frankly we still want to maintain our model of being a land light company especially on the ownership side.
And that’s our focus is but still continue to focus on option deals even though we may give up some gross margin by doing the option deals.
We feel like that’s a better place for our balance sheet to be.
Just one more piece of color around the specs last year at this time we were running at 63% spec.
So we were definitely anticipating some increased demand from the tax credit.
This year we’re at 55%.
So you are seeing us keep that a little bit lower.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Josh Levin of Citigroup.
Please state your question sir.
Good morning.
Good morning.
On the last call I guess you called a big what to do.
You said that you did not think that new home sales would be all that great in 2011.
Relative to what your view was in the last call have you seen anything to really change your opinion at the margin either more pessimistic or optimistic? No.
I think we are very factual and I think when we – clearly when we – our fourth quarter conference call proved up on our fourth quarter results were I don’t see anything in ’11 that’s going to make ’11 better than ’10.
And I think that we’re still realistic in terms of we need job growth we need consumer confidence and we still have issues with qualified people with tighter mortgage underwriting.
So I think 2011 will be a marginal weak year in the homebuilding industry.
Our goal is still to be profitable in 2011 and we are going to struggle more in ’11 than we did in ’10 to be profitable.
Okay.
And just to follow up on the gross margin going forward Stacey you talked about 2011 facing some margin pressure.
How should we think about gross margin for the year? I mean is there still more pressure to come you think? Well I would say to you on the gross margin side clearly we’re going to be competitive in the marketplace as we have always been.
And going into the second quarter we do have even though our spec count percentage is down.
We still have 55% of our inventory out there as specs.
We do have some aged inventory that we want to move.
So I would say to you that being competitive given our inventory and given some of our aged inventory I think that our margins will continue to be under pressure in the second quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan Chase.
Please proceed with your question sir.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
First question on the – some of the comments that you said right at the beginning of the call seems to be I don’t know maybe in some ways a little contradictory to the more cautious tone where – at the beginning you said maybe there are some signs of improvement.
You just mentioned the traffic being little better.
You’re hopeful.
At the same time gross margins being where they are and it’s still being a tough environment.
How you’re supposed to – how should we think about reconciling that? I mean obviously it’s still a tough environment but I guess those signs and that hopefulness given that you’re still fairly pessimistic it sounds like where are you getting those signs and hopefulness I guess is the question.
Well first of all I’d say that we’re realistic as opposed to pessimistic.
And secondly I think you can reconcile very simply.
The first quarter is our seasonally long quarter for the entire fiscal year.
And so we’re lower than at the bottom of the ocean right now.
And if we can’t be optimistic after our worst quarter seasonally there would be something wrong with us.
So we are optimistic relative to where we’ve been and where we are today in terms of the fact that there is going to be a better market in the second and third quarter than what we’ve experienced in the first quarter in terms of sales and closings.
Okay fair enough.
Second question on the gross margins just to go back to that for a moment it seems like you continue to adjust to the marketplace.
Do you feel that the gross margins will be more dominated by the continued pricing trends or incentive levels or do you anticipate – how do you think about land costs though as that impact? And did that have any play in the first quarter decline from 4Q in terms of the step-down? Our margins are going to continue to be under pressure based upon the competitiveness in the marketplace.
We are outselling everyone else in the industry.
We are going to continue to outsell and out-close everyone else in the industry.
We are better positioned than anyone else in the industry.
So as a result as I’ll quote one more time David All [ph] it doesn’t do any good to have an unrealistic gross margin on a house if the market perceives to this overprice.
So we are trying to control our cost as strongly as we can and we are trying to meet the market in each and every sale that we have.
So as a result depending upon what every other builder is going to be doing out there which were all fighting for market share were all fighting for a limited number of sales in the marketplace I think over the next couple months there’s going to be some extreme competition in the marketplace.
But again we’re going to continue to outsell and out-close everyone in the market.
So land costs aren’t coming to the equation as well in this past quarter or going forward? When we look at our land cost as a percentage of our revenue they are not different at all in terms of the sequential or year-over-year comparisons.
I don’t really think it’s the land costs that’s going through the cost of sales that’s impacting the margin right now.
And that said the other thing is that we consistently rework our rolling option lot prices simply because of the fact that we can.
So as a result when the margins start to work their way down because the land cost is getting higher as a percentage of the overall cost of sales price we are back with the seller whoever that may be and try to work that price down.
Basically we’ve been in a market for the last six months where demand has been at a very low level.
So therefore the competition for that low level of demand has been intense and I think that’s reflected in the margin.
As we go through the year we see some seasonal increase.
Hopefully some higher level of volume in the marketplace would help to provide some stability for margins but we will see.
We do expect it to be very competitive continuing through the year.
One last quick one if I could squeeze one in on community count you said it’s up 18% year-over-year in the first quarter.
Should we expect a similar type of year-over-year type of trends up 15% to 20% let’s say for the fiscal ’11 on average? I think that’s going to be difficult to achieve but I will tell you this that we are out there trying to do every option deal on finished lots that makes sense to us in the market and we’re beginning to go further and further out from some of our core markets and given to other areas where there are finished lots albeit perhaps not as desirable as our core markets.
But we’re trying to drive buyers out to those markets by offering a more competitively priced product.
Yes Mike last year you saw us ramp up our community count rather dramatically on a sequential basis throughout the year.
While we continue to expect to increase our community count we might not be increasing it sequentially as dramatically as we did a year ago.
So the year-ago comparisons may start to moderate a bit but again we expect to sequentially continue to try to increase our community counts.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jonathan Ellis of Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
First question just want to ask about – you talked a little bit about the tighter mortgage underwriting standards.
There didn’t seem to be any material change in the cancellation rate this quarter.
So I’m wondering – is the expectation – perhaps there’s a pickup in cancellation rates in the coming quarter.
And then the related question being you said you are seeing tightening standards is it more from the Fannie-Freddie side or FHA? The tighter mortgage lending standards is really just a continuation of everything we’ve seen throughout the downturn.
Banks are getting a lot of pushback right now from Fannie and Freddie.
And since we don’t bank our mortgages we basically are using the underwriting standards that are given to us by the banks who will take our mortgages.
And so I wouldn’t say there is anything significant that’s changed recently or that we see going into spring.
But compared to the easy credit that was available when we were seeing the rise in prices and a really strong demand it’s a tighter mortgage environment.
And that still remains our number one reason for cancellation right now.
Okay.
Great.
And then just my second question can you share with us I think you did last quarter percentage of deliveries and orders from new communities in the quarter? And then also a related question as you talk about community count growth for the coming year any sense based on where we stand today whether that community count expansion may be more back end loaded and front end loaded in terms of the sequential change? Thank you.
Yes.
We’ve been talking for a while now about the number of our sales and closings that have come from communities that we contracted for beginning in fiscal ’09 or later.
Clearly that has become a much bigger part of our business.
This quarter we have ticked up to around 50% or better in terms of both sales and closings that have come from those communities.
So now that has really become our business and that will continue to grow.
Of course we start to see some of those ’09 communities start to roll off as well.
So that’s a survey statistic that we still have.
It’s not becoming – it's not quite as relevant today and we would expect it to become even less relevant in future quarters as that’s now really – that really is our business.
Go ahead Jonathan.
I was just going to say on the sequencing for community count.
It will be depending on opportunities Jonathan and really our absolute levels that we end up opening is probably going to be somewhat dependent on the level of demand we do see and the need to replenish and continue to expand our communities.
I think on a year-over-year basis we’ll see the biggest growth in the second quarter and I think that year-over-year growth number is going to moderate through the third and fourth quarters as we’re anniversarying larger community count numbers.
But again as I said we’re going further and further out from our core markets where there are plenty of developed lots and on a very selective basis and trying to offer the buyer a more competitively priced house further out.
And so I think that we will add communities like that but it’s not going to be as much as what we’ve added in the past.
But there were so many core subdivisions that were available at one point in time.
Those are beginning to decrease in number.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Carl Reichardt of Wells Fargo Securities.
Please state your question sir.
Hey guys.
How are you? We’re great.
Good morning Carl.
I guess you surprised me this morning.
I walked into Stacey’s office and you must be taking happy pills.
More in the morning.
Bill or Don the watch list increased in the quarter sequentially up.
Is that a function of communities that you purchased relatively recently not meaning your standards or is that a function of the broader market? I guess I’m trying to figure out if that’s really related to new stores or related to older stores to the extent the watch list would increase.
The increase is primarily related to the broader conditions but there are some of the newer stores that are representing some of the projects on the watch list.
And where that happened primarily was inland California where we did enter into some deals in early ’09 and they didn’t prove to be as good as the olds as what they should be.
And post the tax credit environment inland California dried up and has blown away.
I don’t think you can find it anymore.
Okay.
And the store count increase as you’ve indicated sort of more aggressive in the second quarter versus the rest of the year is there a concentration where you’re expecting to see the store count and the stores increase in number or is that more broad across the business? Clearly where we entered into most of the – the majority of our deals is in our Eastern region which is in Florida the Carolinas Georgia Alabama and even in Northwest (inaudible).
Just obviously fought her but primarily that’s where we’ve entered into most of our deals today.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
My question I wanted to ask was on the gross margins as well.
You folks described that you are responding to market conditions and so that’s what led to the gross margin deterioration in the December quarter.
I just wanted to understand a little bit better.
Demand has obviously been quite weak since the end of the tax credit.
So weakness would have affected the third quarter as well and yet you are – I’m sorry your September quarter.
And your September quarter margins were stable.
So I just want to understand the delta in terms of the weakness and how you’re responding to it maybe what types of incremental pricing or incentive strategies you are using that led to delta between the September quarter and the December quarter.
I’ll start off by saying one of the reasons for the delta is as Bill mentioned earlier is that our ’09 communities are obviously getting older.
They were entered into at a higher lot price than what subsequently we’re able to get lots in some of those markets.
And D.R.
has said on a number of occasions the second leg down in the homebuilding industry started May 1st as the tax credit – it's the second tax credit expires.
So I think it’s a focus of – it's actually expiring but not as much pricing power in the marketplace because obviously our sales have come down.
But secondly because the ’09 lot deals with the second leg down in the homebuilding industry where the lot prices were richer than what they ultimately needed to be.
And we have – while this – the leg down in margin this quarter was more dramatic than we saw last quarter.
If you go back to our margins in the first half of ’10 second quarter specifically we were up around 18%.
It did step down to the low-17s in the last two quarters.
And so I think what you’re seeing this quarter is you’re seeing the impact of the tougher selling environment as we went through the summer.
And the sales environment that we had in the summer and into the early fall have been showing up in closings more than in the fall season through the December quarter.
So I think it’s – while it’s not an even ratable decrease each quarter I think it’s reflective of the topper sales environment we saw beginning May 1st on through the summer and into the fall.
Got it.
Got it.
And so second question is following up on what you were talking about with Carl.
The community count expansion that you folks have had has been in – as you mentioned some places like Alabama obviously a lot of communities there places like Utah.
And then places where a lot of builders have been expanding communities like Florida.
So your breadth of community expansion is much much broader than the other builders.
I wanted to get an understanding of what you are seeing that leads to this kind of broader footprint for a community expansion? Is that D.R.
Horton kind of specific model issue or what – why you’re finding opportunities in place that others aren’t? Well I’d say first of all that we start off with a strong cash position.
Secondly we had a goal of continuing to aggregate the national market share which we have done.
And thirdly we are willing to build specs in our communities.
So when we go to a seller of lots whether it be an individual or a corporation or a bank we are certainly with our business model to preferred buyer of those homes.
And we do maintain more specs per community than most builders largely to accommodate that first time homebuyer or that relocation buyer as well as the realtors who basically want to bring our customer into our home and collect their commission as quickly as possible and that doesn’t work very well for them when you’re taking 90 to 120 days to build a build job.
So as a result I think those factors clearly make us the preferred buyer.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Joshua Pollard of Goldman Sachs.
Please state your question.
Hey good morning to you all.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I would like to hear a little bit about what the strategy is on SG&amp;A if you guys look back maybe a year ago you guys were very confident in your ability to be profitable partially because of the solid environment you are expecting but additionally because of the work you guys were doing on the SG&amp;A front.
If the sales environment doesn’t quite pick up as you might expect in the first couple of quarters of this year what’s all in a bucket of quick to cut for you guys? And if you could quantify that would be very helpful.
First of all I will say to you that we’re extraordinarily proud of our SG&amp;A in terms of total dollars which we’re right at about $118 million for the quarter which that includes everything including corporate.
And secondly it’s down from the previous quarter.
Thirdly I would say to you we do a lot of analyses around comparing ourselves to others.
But if you look at the fact that the number-two or number-three builder in the country is closing – we're closing about 30% more homes than they and we’re running the same total dollars of SG&amp;A.
I think that’s an extraordinary accomplishment.
Having said all that clearly the first quarter was our weakest quarter.
We’re prepared for a better selling season in the second and third quarter.
And basically there are core SG&amp;A costs that are associated with expecting that our sales and closings in the second quarter and the third quarter.
Clearly though we’re unhappy at 15.5% I think is the number.
And we’re going to focus on working that down if the sales don’t materialize as we expect them to do because 15.5% to us is totally unacceptable.
Could you quantify how much you guys cut over the course of a one to two-quarter period if you saw about that things weren’t as robust as you had hoped? I’m just trying to get a sense of what the labors are and what you guys could cut that we deal with in fiscal 2011 versus things weren’t as robust what would have to wake before showing up in your income statement until fiscal 12? Couple of thoughts.
One don’t forget that when we started all this we had $1.5 billion of total SG&amp;A in the corporation.
And we thought we have done a good job when we cut it to $0.5 billion of total annual SG&amp;A.
Now we’re running closer to about $480 million worth of SG&amp;A and that’s coming down.
So we definitely have the ability and we have the guts to cut as we move forward in terms of dollar specific or more focused on the percentage of our SG&amp;A as a part of our revenue.
So the revenue portion of the SG&amp;A is also very important to us.
But if the sales don’t materialize then there will be subdivisions which include salespeople and some superintendents who we won’t need because we’ll be closing down those communities if the sales don’t materialize as we expect them to do.
Understood.
My one last question is around mortgage put-backs.
I didn’t see any information in the press release on it.
Could you talk about what your most recent experience had been into the close of the year? And also if you could discuss how the Countrywide deal with Fannie and Freddie how that may affect your go-forward potential mortgage put-back rates? Thanks a lot guys.
We really haven’t seen much change in our activity there.
We had total recourse expense in our financial services operation of $1.8 million during the quarter.
Our total reserve balance for – on the mortgage company is $36.2 million which was slightly down couple million dollars from the previous quarter.
So really we haven’t seen much change in the activity at all but that’s something that is continually evolving.
It’s difficult to know what impact some of these bank settlements and interplay between the banks and Fannie and Freddie may be.
But it’s something that we’re in touch with on a regular basis and we’re monitoring and we will react as needed [ph].
I think the Countrywide settlement for Fannie was a benefit to the industry overall because basically you got the overhang away from Countrywide and BofA and BofA and Wells are purchasers of our mortgages.
So as a result I think they basically with the settlement certainly appear to have a clean slate and are in business and are going to move forward and continue to buy our mortgages.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Mike Widner with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Let me – most of my questions have been answered.
But let me follow up on something that you guys just brought up the SG&amp;A expense levels.
And you guys kind of brought up the peer comparison.
So certainly the expense cutting has been pretty impressive but you got another peer that reported this morning that’s actually down in the single digits in SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue.
It’s has been running at that level for at least eight quarters now which – and you guys kind of talk about over the long-term if things get better you guys targeting 10-ish percent at least you have in the past.
So just wondering if you could sort of reconcile all those.
What’s your expected level as we get kind of closer back to a run rate environment high-single digits or low-double digits 10-ish? And since you brought the peer comparison in that why? I’d be glad to answer that question.
First of all our goal certainly is to get our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues back into – out of the teens and back into the 12s is certainly our goal.
I’d say secondly and we obviously compare ourselves to all of our peers and some of our people who are not our peers.
And that company that reported today has done an excellent job.
I would say to you though what this company – D.R.
Horton is focused on is we have continued to maintain our geographic footprint.
We’re still in 26 stated and 72 markets.
And we are positioning and have positioned and will continue to position this company to take advantage of the upturn in the housing industry.
And I will say to you that when the upturn in the housing industry comes that we will be much better positioned and – much better position to generate profits in some deliveries in three or four states.
I think that’s it.
Good answer and I kind of agree with you and all of that.
One other thing that you brought up early in your comments you mentioned market share.
I guess first quick question is what are you using to measure? It sounds like the numbers you threw out are sort of deliveries or orders as a percentage of new home sales.
Is that the measure you are kind of going by? Right.
We check our latest 12-month sales for each of the last years ended December.
And compare that to the national new home sales numbers that were reported.
Okay.
So I guess just a follow-up on that.
Again because you guys brought it up I mean then your home sales number it’s certainly not the most accurate number out there.
But it’s probably one of the better ones that we have.
You actually were in the 4.7% market share range back in 2006.
So while you are certainly impressive – last year at good market share growth.
Certainly the tax credit as you have acknowledged had a lot to do with that.
And if we look at where you stood kind of last quarter fiscal – your fiscal first quarter this last calendar quarter.
You were kind of down more tax credit behind us in the high 4% range.
And so I guess I’m just looking for your views on whether the market share gains that you’ve got in the past year are sustainable.
Are they going to continue in the absence of the homebuyer tax credit? If in fact you are confident about that or if you potentially you face the fact that you benefited from some pull-forward in that market now that it’s going to be tough to maintain share let alone grow share given the kind of market segment focus that you guys have? I’ll let Stacey deal with the numbers but just as a general observation.
Let’s not forget that it was not a D.R.
Horton federal tax credit but it was a national tax credit.
So as a result it benefited all builders out there in the marketplace.
So notwithstanding the fact that some of our market share gains may have come from the tax credit nevertheless everybody else out there was benefiting from the tax credit as well.
Well true.
But I mean certainly the spec focus and the first time buyer focus that you guys have benefited disproportionately kudos to you.
I mean fantastic job.
But I think you did benefit more than those.
And if you are giving us credit for our business model by focusing on the first time homebuyer we basically was a bigger percentage of the buyers that I agree with you.
But as we’ve always in this company focused largely on the first time homebuyer and we still believe that on a go-forward basis that’s the best buyer in the marketplace today.
I’ll let Stacey to talk about the percentages.
Yes.
The percentages have actually bounced around if you go back.
If you go back to 2004 we were 3.9% in the market and now at 5.8% in 2010.
That’s still a significant increase.
Do we expect to keep all of the gains that we’ve achieved? In certain markets we probably can hang on to those.
In other markets as credit becomes more available to the private builders and as the luxury and move-out segments of the market where we focus a little less come back we may give up some of those market share gains.
Right now it continues to be a market share gain for us in the (inaudible) which is the most active buyer segment.
And I assure you that each one of our regional presence and division presence were in field on a daily basis.
And Don Horton and myself our goal everyday when we get up is to focus on profitability but also to focus on continuing to aggregate market share and take advantage of those players in our marketplace who are frozen on the market because of financing or some other financial issue.
But nevertheless our goal is to continue to aggregate market share.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate the candor and I think you’ve done well on those fronts.
So congrats on a solid couple years actually as we continue to recover.
Thank you.
It’s not good enough but we’re working on it.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of John Benda of SIG.
Please state your questions.
Mr.
Benda your line is open for question.
Hello.
Hello? Hey good morning.
How are you doing today? Good.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Sorry about that.
Just a quick question on your watch list can you break that down by geographic segments with that information? Yes we can.
And as Bill is looking up that – Mike are looking up that data I always like to remind people that we still are the only builder who provides people at a watch list and we’ll continue to let you drill down on it.
The largest concentrations would be in California Illinois Florida Arizona New Jersey and then Texas in descending order of proportion.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
And then talking about the spring selling season are there any markets that stand out as – are going to be more robust than others and how do you feel your presence is there compared to some of the competitors in the market? Well I would say our broad geographic footprint as I said before 26 states and 72 markets we’re well prepared for the spring selling season in all of those markets.
It’s hard for me to answer it and I’m not going to get into as one of my (inaudible) trying to raid each market I think what we told you clearly was that so far it looks like inland California and the Carolinas are weaker markets for us today.
But we expect those markets sit with the exception of the entire colleagues that	 Inland Empire.
We certainly expect a lot of the Carolinas in the next two quarters relative to what they produce for us this last quarter.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Dan Oppenheim of Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering you talked about how D.R.
is out into markets right now and is happier (inaudible).
What do you need to see in terms of thinking about controlling more land via options? What do you need to see a lot of real progress in the orders in the spring just how you’re looking at that overall and how much you’re putting into sort of the optimism from just the traffic here so far? Well let me answer the question on the option deals.
We are trying to tie up every option deal that makes sense to us irrespective of where it’s located subdivision state city whatever.
But if it makes sense to us we’re going to tie it up and try to make money building and selling and closing homes.
The optimism out there I will tell you as you travel around and Mike Murray and I were in California and we were in Portland together and we’re about ready to go to Carolinas on Sunday and travel around.
It’s disheartening as you are going through subdivisions if you are not seeing a lot of traffic and we typically are in those subdivisions on a weekend because it helps us gauge the traffic because that’s what most of the traffic specifically in the sales offices on the weekend.
So I think what D.R.
is clearly saying is hey he is seeing easing traffic during the week and subdivisions so he is travelling through in Alabama and Louisiana and Nevada.
So as a result that bodes well.
I mean that’s why it’s feeling good that’s we’re all feeling good because we can’t sell somewhat a home who doesn’t show up in our month.
But the traffic is a good thing right now.
Great.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joel Locker of FBN Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Just wanted to talk to you about the backlog conversion rate.
I guess it dropped about 1 000 basis points year-over-year and I guess the first drop in about 15 quarters and we have some tougher comps from the tax credit or at least the first credit expiring supposedly last November.
But just wanted to see what the trend was going forward if you are going to see a significant decline year-over-year in the second third and fourth quarter which you’re also – or the second and third quarter tough comps also? In terms of a year-over-year comp we probably will continue to see declines in our backlog conversion rate.
When the tax credits were not in effect and going back a little bit historically 55% to 70% conversion rate is very normal for us.
Now with higher level of specs going into the second quarter depending on the sales that we see and the timing of those sales because the mortgage qualification process is now almost a minimum of 30 days.
And then we have inventory that’s available that could help that conversion rate.
But in terms of cheating the conversion rates we did last year with the deadlines in place that people had to close by to get tax credits.
You probably won’t see the same conversions.
Great.
And did you have some of the backlog drop-off because of higher interest rates or harder to qualify? We have the cancellation rate at 28%.
It’s primarily going to be qualification.
I didn’t hear anything specifically from our mortgage company or division in terms of any other cancellations being rising interest rates.
Right.
And just one last question on do you have a number for customer deposits in the quarter? While she is looking that up I’d also say our cancellation rate even though it is 28% doesn’t concern me.
Clearly I’d like to have it at 18% or 19% where historically was during the good days but our salespeople have been instructed don’t worry about qualifying them.
Right the contract and then turn it over to the mortgage company and let the mortgage company qualify him.
So as a result what we’re trying to do is make certain if we have a buyer in front of a sales person that we write that buyer and take them out of market.
I’m trying to get them qualified.
And our earnest money liability from customer deposits is about $9.4 million.
$9.4 million.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Alex Barron of Housing Research Center.
Please state your question.
Hey good morning guys.
How are you? Good morning Alex.
I have a question regarding your comments about having to go out further and look for land.
I think last year my understanding is that you guys were – well in 2009 you guys were one of the early moves finding land deals and then somehow everybody jumped in the bandwagon I guess late ’09 early 2010.
And my understanding is the land prices went up so my question is is the reason you’re having to go out further because most of the land and the better places have been tied up.
And there is no more or is it because of the land prices are high and sellers aren’t coming down.
I think as a combination of both things clearly there is a finite amount of completed loss and we obviously a finite number of completed lots in the core markets.
And so as a result as the builders queue-up those finished loss then we’re having to go out to the next concentric circle and look for those loss as well as clearly as the supply is diminishing the sellers whether they be banks or whether they be individuals are asking slightly higher prices.
So it’s a combination of those things in addition to trying to provide clearly the buyer with the most competitive priced value in the marketplace for maybe a little bit better drive and more difficult to qualify if we can offer them also the lesser price same quality then we’re going to do that.
My second question is with regards to your overall strategy it sounds like you guys are – as you said being realistic about the current market conditions.
So if they persist for let’s say another year or two lastly you guys focused on buying down debt.
Is the focus going to remain the name that generates cash to continue to pay down debt especially since you are not really buying land for developing and installing.
That’s still part of our focus today Alex in terms of the use of our cash we are still out there reducing our debt.
We are focused on being as efficient as we can with our cash but we don’t expect to see the same level of cash generation.
And depending on the sales level we’ll depending on a level-of-investment in our inventory.
But we do continue to focus on our balance sheet and we want to maintain the strength of that balance sheet because we think that provides us a good position to respond when we do see some improvement in the marketplace.
Got it.
If I could squeeze in one last one what’s driving up the watch list? Is it prices are going lower or is the sales pace is going lower? Alex I think it’s primarily some margin compression and some sales pace that we saw in the quarter.
It’s a kind of a sensitive relationship.
When you see margins drop you would expect to see that the watch list improve or the watch list increase.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks for taking questions.
I wondered if you could comment on raw material costs by some measures.
Lumber for example was up close to I think about 10% last quarter.
And I was just wondering if you’re seeing any pressure there and what the time ladies and gentlemen might be on where you could see some margin impact from raw material prices? I think the good thing about commodity prices based on what I’ve seen in the market the last couple days is that commodity prices are beginning to come up all-time highs.
lumber prices we have good relationships with our lumber suppliers.
We typically lock I our lumber prices for a period of three to six months.
And clearly we have higher lumber prices working their way through our closed homes now.
And so that had some impact on our gross margins negatively.
But I’d say to you that lumber prices as many years as we’ve been on this business they always have a tendency to speak about this time of the year and then they have the tendency to decline throughout the rest of the calendar year.
So I anticipate that the lumber prices will begin to come down through this quarter and the next two quarters.
And we continue to have good dialogue with all of our vendors across all the product categories.
And the consistent thing is everyone would like to reach their process.
We would low to be able to accept those price increases but right now in a depressed sales environment where we’ve seen very low volumes in 2010 unless repeat some list in 2011 we’re going to be at the negotiating table still with our vendors trying to keep those products they are all over.
Joining a flat sales environment say for 2011 versus 2010 because of the tax credit.
But then based on economic improvement are you expecting the D.R.
Horton to see higher year-over-year raw sauce.
Probably on average nothing is significant.
There will be certain categories that will move both up and down.
And our goal is to balance that and to continue to keep our costs relatively flat.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Zener of KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
Hello.
Yes.
Hi Ken.
Don in the past you talked about bringing the Wal-Mart builders.
So is it fair to say now that you are perhaps now the dollar general as you enter these non-core markets which largely explains the different gross margin trends between you and others? So basically turns versus margins versus the risk that you are now taking on non-core markets? First of all I would say to you that we’re just beginning to go into these non-core markets as we try to continue to generate houses at a price more affordable than what the core markets are providing us the opportunity to.
So I would say to you that – 10% of closings? Say again.
10% of closings? Less than that.
Okay.
Thank you.
What we’re just trying to do is that as these finished lots are depleted in the core markets then obviously we need to move out to the next concentric circle just as in the good times.
As a developer you continue to move up the next concentric circle and then by the time the market crashes you are too far – too many concentric circles out.
We’re going up to the next concentric circle which makes sense for more people want to live and commute from.
These aren’t blind moves.
I mean these – we're evaluating each one of those.
And as Don has said several times we are only going to do the deals that makes sense.
And it makes sense if there is demand if there is the potential to get good returns in those communities.
Our underwriting standards don’t change relative to where the subdivision is located.
Okay.
I guess related to that in your early comments on finished lots it seems that as finished lots do deplete whether it’s in the interior markets versus the exterior ones it could be seen as an inflationary factor for the sector overall or it could be seen as just a rising premium to those that need or want lots either for volume or to replenish.
So if you can make some comments around that.
And then what have you order just indicated about the DTA recovery if you actually do have two consecutive years of profitability in ’10 and ’11 notwithstanding the level of that profitability? Thank you.
I’ll start on the DTA discussion.
Clearly we need a consistent trend and expectations of profitability.
So to the extent that we do have two years of profitability we can have some very good discussions with our auditors about the DTA and the recoverability of it.
So we would expect if we have a profitable year in 2011 that we would have some discussions around it.
Exactly when that timing would be would be dependent on the level of profitability we have and our expectations for the level of profitability going forward relative to the size of the DTA.
So clearly a profitable ’11 would be good news for the DTA recoverability.
As far as the core markets bringing this award that we don’t use very often in the homebuilding industry but I will tell you D.R.
and I travel around to the extent that we do have a subdivision where there are no other competitors or no significant competitors.
We’re always reminding our division presence but notwithstanding the fact that we have a 20% gross profit margin goal in each subdivision and each house to the extent that we are the only builder in a core deal.
We will and quoting I just told too division presence this last week take your margins at 25% and start asking 25% because there are no other loss that could compete with it.
Thank you.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of David Goldberg of UBS Financial.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning David.
First question I know you’ve talked about it I mean (inaudible) but I was wondering if you could give us – when you talk about the traffic that you are seeing in that – kind of see now in the field today is there a way to think about the quality of that traffic? I know we’ve talked a lot about underwriting standards and tighter underwriting stands and I’m wondering if the people that are in our communities with folks that can qualify to buy homes in the end or if it’s just kind of people that are attracted by affordability.
And might be tougher to convert in the selling season.
Well first of all I will say to you that just having a unit of traffic show up is a good thing whether they can qualify or not.
Secondly though if you do have a unit of traffic it shows up that can’t qualify.
One of the things that our mortgage companies doing an extraordinary job and that is we’re recruiting those buyers into our homebuyers and helping them work their way through the financial morales of how do I improve my credit.
And we’re graduating a lot of those buyers and they are – about 80% of them are ADR (inaudible) homes.
So I would say to you we loved our unit of traffic.
That’s well qualified.
And if it’s not we’re willing to work with them to help them get qualified.
And then maybe a three-month process and maybe a six-month process but we are graduating those people and selling 80% of them at D.R.
Horton.
All right.
That’s that.
It’s just really good idea.
Thank you.
My follow-up question was actually and maybe a little bit of a follow-up on one of the earlier questions.
I know you said change your underwriting standards based on geography.
Do you change them on based on outlook? In orders if you are maybe more or less pessimistic as you look forward is it impacting your underwriting standards in a market=-specific area.
We have a pretty hard and fast underwriting guidelines here and really what it centers around is a 20% gross profit margin.
Do we approve some deals that has an 18% upfront gross margin.
We do.
But I would say that 99% of all the deals that we approve have an upfront day-one 18% or greater gross margins.
The other factor that got it in there to those how we allocate our tough-to-capital tier division.
So if they are doing a rolling lot option contract that is their lowest cost of capital allocation.
If they are buying land that requires full development or some level of development that’s a higher risk business.
We assign a higher cost of capital to that.
It gets factored into the gross profit margin that we are looking at.
So in terms of the return on our capital we’re looking for a higher return given the higher risk.
But the risk is really the land ownership and not the market because if we do a option deal in a market we can always walk away from that restructure of the deal.
If we own it outright we can’t do that.
And just so we don’t get caught up in a discussion around the BPs and the exact percentages the 18% to 20% that DT was mentioning is for interest number.
So that’s where our divisions are focused on before interest and then ultimately then they factor into based on the timeframe of the deal the ultimate charges that they will incur on their capital.
Got it.
Thank you.
We’re reaching the end of our allotted time for question-and-answer session.
There’s time for one final question.
That question today is coming from the line of Michael Smith of JMP Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
I’ll make this fast.
I know it’s been a long call.
I’m just curious – we've been seeing some data and also hearing that sales sort of sequentially improved throughout the quarter and I’m wondering if that was your experience as well.
And could you just give some color on what things look like month-to-month? In terms of the year-over-year comp versus last year we did see improvement each month through the quarter.
But in terms of the absolute level of sales that we saw we did not see increase during the quarter.
And we would not have expected to see sequential absolute improvement each month.
Seasonally we always would expect to see declines from the month of October to November to December and then you start to begin to see that absolute level of volume turnaround in January through the spring.
But as far as on a percentage basis year-over-year you did see better comps each month? Yes.
Yes we did.
Yes.
That’s it guys.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Mr.
Tomnitz there are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Okay.
Thank you.
We appreciate everyone joining on the call.
We did not achieve profitability in the first quarter.
Our goal is to strive for profitability each and every quarter.
As we said earlier we think that will be more difficult.
It will be equally as difficult I think in Q2.
We are clearly looking at Q3 and Q4 as the opportunity for us to generate a profit.
The spring selling season is going to be here.
The Super Bowls in Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area and Arlington Texas.
This is our Super Bowl I would tell our salespeople and all of our division presidents and regional presidents.
We need to make sure that we win the Super Bowl this year because this is very important to us to be able to report a profitability in fiscal year ’11.
So I thank each of you for your hard work.
We need to work a little harder and we need to get back to sustained profitability.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America’s Builder The Largest Builder in the United States Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Don Tomnitz CEO and President of D.R.
Horton.
Thank you.
Mr.
Tomnitz you may now begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Vice President and Controller.
Before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there's no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? The fundamental drivers of demand for the homebuilding industry the overall economy job growth and consumer confidence are still weak.
National new home sales have remained at a low level subsequent to the expiration of the tax credit in April 2010.
However our net sales orders this quarter reflected traditional seasonality increasing 47% sequentially from the December to the March quarter.
Our backlog of 5 281 homes at March 31 2011 is higher than our backlog at the beginning of the fiscal year.
And as a result we expect our closings and pretax profitability to be higher in the second half of fiscal 2011 than in the first half.
Given the weak macroeconomic conditions higher levels of existing homes for sale and tight mortgage availability we still remain cautious and realistic in our expectations and we will adjust our business to compete in the current market conditions.
We plan to continue to aggressively open new communities and adjust our price points and product offerings to the demand we see in each of our individual markets.
Mike? Our Homebuilding pretax loss was $32.4 million which included $14.3 million of inventory impairment and lot-option charges.
Financial Services pretax income was $1.6 million which included $2.5 million of recourse expense.
Our net income for the quarter was $27.8 million or $0.09 per diluted share compared to $11.4 million or $0.04 per diluted share in the prior-year quarter.
Net income for the quarter included a $59.2 million noncash tax benefit from a reduction in our unrecognized tax benefit reserve.
During the quarter we received a favorable result from the IRS on a ruling request concerning the capitalization of inventory cost.
This ruling request and related potential tax benefit have been disclosed in prior quarterly SEC filings.
Bill? Our second quarter home sales revenues decreased 18% to $733 million on 3 516 homes closed from $894.8 million on 4 260 homes closed in the year ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was down 1% compared to the prior year and essentially flat sequentially at $208 500.
Homes closed in the March quarter represented 91% of the beginning backlog compared to 88% in the December quarter.
We expect that our backlog conversion rate going forward will remain around or below 90% as we return to more normal conversion rates this year.
Don? Net sales numbers for the second quarter increased 47% sequentially to 4 943 homes reflecting a seasonal increase from the spring selling season.
However sales orders were down 23% from the same period last year when we saw a 55% year-over-year increase as buyers were signing contracts to meet the April 30 sales deadline on the federal homebuyer tax credit.
In the March quarter our average sales price on net sales orders was up 1.5% year-over-year to $207 700.
Our cancellation rate was 25% and our active selling communities increased 4% sequentially.
Our sales backlog decreased 16% from the prior year but increased 37% sequentially to 5 281 homes or $1.1 billion.
We expect another difficult year-over-year net sales order comparison next quarter since our third quarter fiscal 2010 sales of 4 921 homes included extremely strong demand in the April period from the tax credit.
A positive comparison would require that we sell approximately the same number of homes or greater in the June quarter than we sold in the March quarter.
Stacey? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the quarter was 16.2% down 180 basis points from the year ago period reflecting the weaker housing market we continue to experience since the expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit.
However our margin increased 60 basis points sequentially primarily due to improvement in our core margin.
Mike? In our second quarter impairment analysis we reviewed all projects in the company and determined that projects with a pre-impairment carrying value of $59.4 million were impaired which resulted in $13 million of impairment charges the majority of which were in Hawaii Florida and California.
We refer to our projects which have indicators of potential impairment but were not impaired as our watch list which represents those projects deemed to be at the highest risk for future impairments.
After this quarter's impairments our watch list now totals $432 million up from $408 million at December with the largest concentrations in California Illinois and Florida.
Our inventory impairment process in future quarters will incorporate any changes in market conditions and any adjustments we make in our business.
Bill? In the second quarter we reduced our homebuilding SG&amp;A expense which includes all corporate overhead to $123.2 million from $129 million in the year-ago quarter.
However with the decrease in homes closed SG&amp;A expense increased to 16.8% of Homebuilding revenues compared to 14.4% in the year-ago quarter.
Sequentially our Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense increased $4.3 million primarily due to increased advertising costs for the spring selling season and higher payroll taxes.
We continue to actively manage our SG&amp;A levels relative to our expected number of homes closed and we have begun implementing additional cost reductions throughout the company.
Stacey? Homebuilding interest expense was $14.7 million for the quarter which represented 43% of our homebuilding interest incurred.
We directly expense a portion of our interest incurred when our Homebuilding debt level exceeds our active inventory.
Our second quarter Homebuilding interest incurred of $33.8 million decreased 26% compared to the prior year primarily due to the $1 billion of debt reduction that we achieved in fiscal 2010.
We expect our interest incurred to be reduced even further in the third quarter to approximately $32 million.
Mike? Financial Services pretax income for the quarter was $1.6 million compared to $1 million in the year ago quarter.
87% of our mortgage company's business was captive during the quarter.
Our company-wide capture rate was 61% our average FICO score was 702 and our average combined loan-to-value was 92%.
Our product mix in the quarter was essentially 100% agency eligible with government loans accounting for 61% of our volume.
Don? Our total inventory increased by $74.3 million excluding noncash items since December 31.
We increased our homes in inventory by $115.2 million for the spring selling season and decreased our investment in residential land and lots by $40.9 million.
Our homes in inventory at the end of March totaled 10 500 homes up 1 400 homes from December but down 3 400 homes from a year ago.
As of March 31 1 200 of our homes were models 5 500 were speculative homes and 2 400 of the specs were completed.
We reduced our completed specs by 20% during the quarter which we're extremely proud of.
We continue to manage our total homes in inventory relative to our expectations of sales demand and we offer spec homes primarily to accommodate our first-time and relocation buyers.
Bill? In our second fiscal quarter our total land lot and development investments were $184 million primarily in finished lots.
Our spending on finished lots will remain largely dependent on our sales base while our spending on land and development costs will continue to be at relatively low levels.
At March 31 2011 we owned approximately 89 000 lots of which 23 000 are finished.
We controlled an additional 27 000 lots through option contracts with a net earnest money deposit balance for these lots of $13.6 million.
We are focused on managing our supply of owned finished lots in line with our sales demand in a low-risk capital efficient manner.
Mike? We ended the quarter with $1.4 billion of homebuilding cash and marketable securities.
Cash used in operations for the March quarter totaled $70.6 million primarily due to increased homes in inventory in response to seasonal demand.
During the quarter we repurchased $64.7 million of various issues of our notes for $67.2 million plus accrued interest and the balance of our public notes outstanding at March 31 was $1.9 billion.
Stacey? Subsequent to quarter end we repaid at maturity the remaining $70.1 million of our 6% note.
Also as previously announced we redeemed the remaining $112.3 million of our 5 3/8% notes due 2012 which will result in a loss on early debt retirement of $6.3 million next quarter.
The amount remaining on our debt repurchase authorization after these transactions is $241.7 million.
Our note maturities for the rest of fiscal 2011 are only $106 million with no further maturities until May of 2013.
At March 31 our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash and marketable securities improved 350 basis points from a year ago to 18.7%.
Gross homebuilding leverage at March 31 improved 670 basis points from a year ago to 42.9%.
These leverage improvements are due primarily to our lower debt balance.
Don? We continue to focus on the fundamentals of our business bringing homes to the market at the right price points controlling finished lots closely monitoring our home and spec inventory in relation to our sales further reducing our SG&amp;A costs maintaining our strong balance sheet and cash balances.
Although our 47% sequential increase in sales reflected traditional seasonal demand for us to see significant sales growth we need to see sustained improvements in the overall economy the jobs landscape and consumer confidence.
As we mentioned earlier we are excited by the prospect of our closings and pretax profitability being higher in the second half of fiscal 2011 than on the first half.
Thank you to all of our D.R.
Horton employees for continuing to work hard and navigate through a difficult homebuilding environment.
We appreciate all of you.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll host any questions you now have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Mr.
Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
So first question I wanted to ask was about the end-market segments.
The theme last year the consensus theme among investors and the builder community was that the first-time buyer was where you wanted to be and you folks obviously did a terrific job of harvesting demand from the homebuyer tax credit.
This year the theme seems to have shifted and now it seems to be more about the move-up buyer.
And you did mention in your commentary that you're trying to make more move-up product available.
So I wanted to just get your thoughts on that because you folks have traditionally been a first-time buyer-oriented builder so what's the right strategy for D.R.
Horton going forward? I think clearly we adjust as the market adjusts.
Before the downturn we clearly were selling a bigger percentage of second-time homes as well as first-time homes.
But my percentage changes.
Last quarter 55% of our homes that we closed were first-time homes and we've made a conscious effort in a number of our markets to move up into the move-up buyer market simply because we see more demand in that market.
And we see a lot of fragmented builders in that market primarily small medium-sized builders across the country some public some private.
But we see a great opportunity in that move up segment at this point in time so we're beginning to expand that portion of our business.
Got it.
Great.
And second question I wanted to ask was related to your balance sheet and your community counts.
If I look back to a couple years ago the kind of the peak of your size of your balance sheet your balance sheet is about 60% smaller now and it includes a lot more cash.
So if you factor that in it probably has shrunk even a little bit more.
And yet your community count over that same period is almost level.
So if I'm looking from that outside maybe you're obviously less involved in land development less involved in larger communities.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on what's driven that bigger trend.
You've become a lot more capital efficient over the past few years so why is that and what can we expect going forward? Clearly what I've said before on previous conference calls is we plan on being a land-light company moving forward.
We've rewritten our underwriting guidelines.
Currently we're looking for a return of our capital that we invest in land and lots of somewhere between 12 to 18 months.
We're certainly not interested in 5-year projects any longer in this company.
And we continue to work with sellers developers as well as banks in terms of working on option deals.
So one of our goals has been and we've executed very well on this and our goal going forward will continue to be to aggressively increase our flag counts as we look at various parts of the country.
And the way that we've continued to focus on doing that is do option contracts with sellers.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
First question on kind of pricing and incentive levels and how you're seeing that flow through to gross margins.
You had a little bit of an improvement sequentially from first quarter on the gross margin side.
And I wanted to know I guess the backdrop in terms of pricing and incentive levels as you've seen it in the spring so far has it been stable? And do you see perhaps some further improvement in the back half either driven off of greater leverage from higher volumes or perhaps a continued more stable pricing/incentives environment? Frankly we are proud of the fact that our incentives remained low this time and if you look at our 60 basis point increase in gross margin 50 basis points of that was from the fact that our incentives stayed flat.
Yes.
Relative to our costs so our core margins were 50 basis points of that.
On a go-forward basis though I believe that as we move into the third and fourth quarters obviously we're very competitive out there and we have a game plan to sell and close x number of units.
We're hopeful that our gross margins will remain solid as we move into the third and fourth quarter but we don't know.
It's to be determined.
And it's really going to be based upon what our competition does out there.
One of the things that adversely affects our gross margins today is just the competitors around us from time to time dropping their prices significantly and us having to adjust our prices.
We've been consistently trying to hold our gross margins where they are and I think we've done a very good job of it.
The one very important fact that we were talking about before the conference call that everybody needs to know about is that we closed a larger percent of completed homes this quarter than we have in the past 3 or 4 quarters and our gross margins held very well.
So we're extremely proud of that and it's freshened up our inventory.
Our next question is from the line of Jonathan Ellis of Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
First question was just on gross margins.
You talked a little bit as you said about pursuing opportunities in the move-up market.
Can you help us to understand whether there's any gross margin difference you see right now between the move-up product and the entry-level product? The question was gross margins on the move-up and the entry-level product? Correct.
Our underwriting guidelines are the same regardless of the product so we don't necessarily expect to have a difference in our margins versus move-up versus first-time.
But to the extent that in the move-up market a buyer may select more options that provides some additional opportunity for margins versus perhaps the same level on a first-time home.
But in general we would expect similar margins.
Okay great.
And then my second question is just on land generally.
I think last quarter you talked about gross margins on land purchase in 2009 having about 100-basis-point differential with margins on land purchased in '10 any update on that? And then secondly the watch list and the increase this quarter was any of that related to land that has been purchased since 2009? In terms of the margin differential between land in '09 and '10 we're seeing a similar trend to what we saw a quarter ago.
I wouldn't characterize the increase in the watch list of about $30 million as being heavily driven by the '09 land purchases.
It would be just across the portfolio of our inventory.
From a year ago the watch list is actually down about $100 million about $90 million.
So I wouldn't say it's driven off of the increase most recent quarter off of '09 purchases no.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
The second question was just on community count.
You mentioned I believe it was up 4% sequentially.
Correct yes.
But you continue to aggressively open up new communities so I was wondering if you could kind of give us first off in the quarter itself what it was on a year-over-year basis as well as on a year-over-year basis what you're at this point expecting year end to be.
On a year-over-year basis our communities are up 20% versus last year.
Going forward in the forward quarters while we continue to plan to aggressively open new communities on a gross basis what's more difficult to predict is the pace of which older communities will roll off.
The demand environment basically sets that.
So we would expect and hope to be able to at least hold our community count at current levels.
Hopefully continue to increase them incrementally but in terms of holding or giving exact projections on forward community counts we're not really at a point to be able to do that very well.
Part of that has to do with how tough we're negotiating out there also because obviously we're looking for a good return on our underwriting criteria.
So as a result sometimes we think we're going to make a deal and we don't make a deal.
So it just all depends.
The year-over-year percentage increase is probably going to trend down a little bit Michael.
Because we had a pretty good jump from our March quarter to our June quarter in terms of active selling communities last year.
Our next question is from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Crédit Suisse.
Historically you guys have always focused on affordability and I think you noted that in the release here in terms of just the greater affordability these days.
How do you think about that in the first-time buyer versus some of the financing issues these days at the low end of the market? Well as the underwriting criteria continues to change our buyers continue to find the increased down payment.
They have figured out how to qualify for the loans.
I think our Homebuyers Club has helped our first-time homebuyers immensely.
Our mortgage company has a very successful what we call HBC Homebuyers Club.
And we're helping people understand what it takes to have a good credit rating and a good FICO score.
And those people are increasingly contributing more and more to our sales.
So I think irrespective of what happens I think that we're dealing with it as it changes from day-to-day.
Okay.
Then secondly wondering just as it relates to communities given some of the different trends you're seeing across the regions geographically where are you looking to add communities over the course of the year? Or is it replacing? Anywhere we can make a 20% gross margin Dan.
And Frankly clearly there are a number of places Texas continues to be a strong market for us and the Carolinas as well as at Las Vegas we're continuing to add communities and also in the state of Florida.
So those are our primary areas that we're focusing on today.
Our next question is from Mr.
Josh Levin with Citi.
Over the last few quarters you've been a bit more balanced than your peers and more accurate than your peers in predicting the outlook for new home sales for the industry as a whole.
How has your outlook for the industry changed compared to what it was say 1 or 2 quarters ago are you more optimistic less optimistic unchanged? Well as I said clearly we're excited about the prospect that our profitability levels and closings will be higher in the second half of fiscal year '11 than the first half.
In general though as we look forward over the next 2 to 3 years we don't expect a significant improvement in the demand because clearly one of the things that drives demand in our business the most is job growth and we're not seeing the kind of job growth that I think will increase our sales dramatically.
So we're preparing the company as we have over the last 3 to 4 years in of this downturn.
We think this is the fifth year of the downturn for us.
We're continuing to have a muted outlook going forward.
And we want to have an extraordinarily strong balance sheet and continue to keep a conservative approach to the business.
We don't see much reason to take any big risk out there on the land and lot side or with the housing side today relative to what we see coming forward in the next 2 or 3 years contrary to a number of our competitors.
So just to be clear so when you think about sales and aggregates in the industry you're not really expecting that much of an increase over the next 2 to 3 years? I think the homebuilding industry over the next 2 to 3 years will be very similar to what it has been for this year with the potential for slight improvements but not significant improvements.
Our next question is from Stephen East with Ticonda (sic) [Ticonderoga] Securities.
DT first if I could ask you about the specs.
When we were visiting with you all there was a belief that you were going to take your specs down.
They increased this quarter and I know that's seasonal but they increased quite a bit more than I would have expected.
As you all look at your spec strategy right now where do you think you're going to be going? Well clearly we're spec-ed up as I would say for the selling season.
I think we've had a reasonably good selling season.
Clearly a 47% increase sequentially in our sales was an extraordinarily was a good accomplishment.
Although as we look back and we're talking before the conference call it pretty much was in the range of our second quarter increase in sales over our first quarter sales over the last 4 5 or 6 years so we didn't get a huge pop but we got what was a traditional pop for us in the second quarter.
Clearly as we move into Q3 and Q4 we bring our inventory down and then we build our inventory back up for the selling season typically in January and February.
So I would say our specs will be coming down over the course of the next 2 quarters and our inventory will also.
That's right.
It's really moved in line with our total inventory.
And while our total specs moves up as a percentage of our inventory they've actually decreased this quarter down to 52% from the mid-50s right around 55% last quarter.
And in terms of completed specs we’re at lowest level of completed specs we've been in 18 months.
Okay that's really helpful.
And then if we turn to looking at both your gross margin and your SG&amp;A the expectations moving forward you said you don't know where pricing will be what your competitors will do.
If we ignore that and really just look at what you all are trying to do internally et cetera where do you think your gross margins move over the next 3 4 quarters? And then your SG&amp;A that was the highest that I think that we've seen it in the downturn and what's going on there? And where you think what are you doing to change that? And where do you think that winds up? As I said earlier we're hopeful that our gross margins hold over the course of the next 2 3 quarters.
And we believe they will.
I don't think they'll drop dramatically so I think that we're looking at pretty stable gross margins going forward.
Our SG&amp;A clearly was a disappointment to us this quarter but in our own defense we at the corporate office want to continue to support our divisions and our regions who had a higher closing number budgeted than what we internally thought they could achieve.
But we wanted to support them and we didn't want to tell that they couldn't achieve what they thought they could achieve.
As it became clear that their expectations were greater than what the market was going to give them we clearly began cutting our SG&amp;A.
And I can tell you as of 2 weeks ago we had our 4 regional presidents in and they have specific SG&amp;A caps that they have to hit and they're going to be at by 4/30.
And we're comfortable that our SG&amp;A in the second half of the year will be dramatically lower than what it was in the first half of the year.
Our next question is from the line of Joshua with Goldman Sachs.
On your guidance it calls for better profitability in the second half.
You guys lost about $50 million on a pretax basis for the first half and I'm wondering whether or not you're expecting your second half profit to outpace your first half losses.
We are anticipating trying to achieve that.
I think it's going to be nip and tuck.
But our goal for the year for the full fiscal year is to be profitable.
My second question is back on this first-time versus move-up debate some are saying that it's just an easier comp for move-up and hence harder for first-time but it seems like the change in your strategy suggests that there's something more structural going on.
Could you talk about which of those 2 whether it's comps or better fundamentals that's driving your move to the move-up? And whether or not you're seeing something out there that folks just aren't talking about right now.
I'll tell you what we clearly see and as I've mentioned before for the last 2 or 3 years Don Horton and I have been on the road all the time and when D.R.
was on the road probably 6 months ago going through some of our divisions he said "Gee why are we letting this builder take this segment of the market and we're not competing against them?" And from a cost perspective we believe that we can deliver a house in the move-up segment much more cost effectively and offer more competitive sales price than the competition.
And as I said earlier a number of those competitors were small- and medium-sized builders a lot of them nonpublic builders and so as a result by being in the field we identified a segment of the market that we believe that we can exploit much more competitively than our competition.
So as a result we're moving in that direction in as many divisions as where that market is characterized by what we saw in Texas.
So when you said you just think that there's easier competition and maybe less expensive lots there that you want to take advantage more so than it being a better group of buyers today? Well first of all there's no easy competition out there today.
And the lots are not any less expensive and there's not any less competition for the lots.
It's just a function of the fact that there are buyers in that segment of the market who have all of a sudden said "Gee I may not be able to sell my house for x I've had it on the market for a while but I can sell it for 90% of x.
I've been in my house for 20 years and I'm not negative.
I'm not under water on my mortgage and I'd like to have a new home and I can afford that new home." And so as a result there are buyers out there who can sell their home and move up.
So as a result I think that's the part of the market that we're focusing on: dominating entry-level portion of our business but we want to add the move-up market to increase our market share across the country.
And Don if I could just sneak one last one in the weather in the South has been very newsworthy.
You guys have some exposure there a bit more than most of your peers.
I wanted to know if you guys have quantified the effect so far.
If you guys have communities that are affected or ultimately what you think the net result is going to be for your financials? Okay.
Well clearly the tragedies in Texas which has had millions of acres burned and a number of dwelling units be lost and then what's happened in Alabama and Mississippi and places like that our prayers are with those people.
As far as being adversely affected in terms of our subdivisions we have not.
And clearly as homes have been destroyed the positive for our business is is that there are opportunities for us to rebuild homes for those people who have lost their homes and some of those communities' people would move out of and move into communities that weren't destroyed where our subdivisions are located.
So generally speaking I see no negatives associated with our financials and I do see some opportunities for us to help people get into homes who have lost their homes.
Our next question is from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Question DT.
In your opening comments you talked about adjusting product and price to hit market and I just want to make sure I understand are you talking about -- is this what when you talk about maybe doing more move-up and focusing is that what you're talking about or are you also talking about maybe de-contenting product and redesigning product? And if it is the latter what kind of opportunities do you think are out there in terms of redesign and de-contenting at this point in the cycle? Yes both parts of it.
And one of the things I really want to impress upon people is we continue to drive the cost of our homes down and that's one of the advantages that we have in the market because obviously we're able to offer a more competitively priced unit.
So is there as much on the table with our vendors and our suppliers as what there was 4 years ago 3 years ago? No there is not.
We just had a board meeting and that similar question was asked but there are still those opportunities.
And as we continue to be the largest builder in the U.S.
for the ninth consecutive year and we have higher inventory levels out there and typically have more specs per community than other builders it provides us a great opportunity to work with our vendors and our suppliers who obviously are looking for volume themselves and our starts provide them that opportunity of higher volume.
And they're looking for business just as we're looking for business and what we're finding is we're getting very competitively priced both products and materials and labor.
And just to summarize there's room for more if we had to take more price cuts there's some offset potentially.
It's a day-to-day battle as I told our Board and yes it is.
There are opportunities out there but the opportunities are out there for those who ask.
And as D.R.
has quoted many times in this company "You'll never know till you ask" and we continue to ask because we don't know if we can get our prices lower but it's our goal to get them lower.
Got it.
And then just a quick follow up here.
I want to go back to the question on the land light model and options and I just want to get an idea know of how liquid you think or how much land is in the market right now that you can buy like that? And how concerned you get about at some point in the future with nobody really developing land at this point being able to remain land light as we move through the next 2 or 3 or 4 years whatever it's going to be if the market really doesn't improve get some home price appreciation? Well I think it's going to be difficult in terms of land value simply because right now most of the raw land doesn't have much value relative to the development cost and then that related to the finished lot cost.
So I think that clearly today we are in a preferred buyer of developers and banks simply because we continue to be the largest builder and we're starting more inventory and selling more homes and closing more homes than anyone else in the industry.
I think there's no question that going forward that it'll become more competitive as we chew through the finished lot supply in this country.
And I will say this we have a commitment in this company that today we want our capital that we invest in land back in 12 to 18 months.
Do I see that increasing? I see that increasing slightly but we have a firm commitment that we are not going to go long on land and to the extent that we need to go and tie up lots from a developer we're going to be a lot better off to find an investor to hold anything that doesn't meet our underwriting criteria at the time simply because we'd prefer not to have it on our books and we would rather achieve a lower gross margin on Phase 2 of a 400-lot project if we feel only comfortable with the first 200 lots.
Our next question is from the line of Mr.
Bob Wetenhall with RBC.
LLC</strong> Just curious how much pain in terms of margins you're willing to sacrifice if you turn out in the second half you're not seeing the volume that you anticipated? Day-to-day subdivision-by-subdivision analysis contract-by-contract that the salespeople bring into their sales manager clearly there's a point at which we don't want to go below in every community.
But it's a community-by-community basis.
I believe that if you look at our impairments and where we've got our land on our books today going forward that added with over 50% of our closings are coming from new deals that we've added since 2009.
We'll reiterate that I feel like that our margins where they are today are sustainable over the next couple quarters.
LLC</strong> Switching over to gross margins it sounds like you're a little disappointed by performance this quarter.
Is it realistic just for modeling purposes in thinking about the full year that you guys can bring SG&amp;A under $475 million? Well let's back up.
We're very proud of the quarter that we just turned in in terms of our sales our closings on a sequential basis in particular.
And most importantly we're sitting on 5 261 units in backlog and our backlog is larger than it was at the beginning of the year which I think if you apply our traditional percentage of our backlog closed in an ensuing quarter you'll find that we're in a wonderful position I think for Q3 and Q4 to have the prospects of having more closings and higher profitability.
Our SG&amp;A is clearly a disappointment but it was our own fault because we wanted to continue to support our divisions based upon their budgets based upon what they thought they could do in the first half of the year.
When we clearly saw that they were not going to be able to achieve that this company's been built on the lowest SG&amp;A in the industry and we’ve cut our SG&amp;A and we believe that we will be substantially lower in the second half than the first half.
You did say that can we come in under...
$471 million.
Yes.
LLC</strong> $475 million.
Yes.
Our goals for SG&amp;A for the year are clearly to be below $475 million.
LLC</strong> Great.
And just one quick question.
Can you comment on traffic since the end of the quarter? The only thing we count and I know people sometimes scoop us for this but traffic is not as important as what percentage of people walking through the door that we close.
So the real issue is we really count sales and closings.
And our sales and closings for the second quarter were up dramatically.
And we think that our sales and closings will be good through the Q3 and Q4.
Our next question is from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW Asset Management.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I wanted to ask on cash flow where you think -- well operating cash flow on the quarter if there were any one-time decreases in payables and accrued expenses that occurred? And then also post the debt retirement moves you've made where do you think leverage is right now? Yes.
The cash flow there really weren't any one-time cash flow events that occurred this quarter.
The use of cash this quarter is entirely attributable to the increase in our homes and inventory during the quarter so it's working capital that we would expect to return as cash inflows in the second half of the year.
And clearly inventory will be coming back in the second half of the year so obviously that ought to be a positive to our cash flows.
Right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
And any idea post the debt retirement moves that you made subsequent to quarter end where leverage should be? Well our gross leverage continues to come down.
We're down to around to 42% I believe on a gross leverage basis now with the April debt reductions.
We have another $106 million that matures in August.
We would expect our gross leverage to get down around 40% or maybe slightly lower by the end of the year.
We will continue to look in the open market as we have been to see if there are further opportunities to repurchase selective portions of our outstanding debt that could bring that a bit lower but that's our expectations right now.
Our next question is from the line of Jay McCanless with Guggenheim.
LLC</strong> With increasing your presence in move-up does it make economic sense or will it at some point in the future to roll up some of these smaller builders that you're talking about or doing a larger acquisition strategy? Clearly right now we're happy with managing our own business and we don't have any interest in M&amp;A activity at this point in time.
We have bought several divisions though from smaller builders or smaller developers rather than buying a builder in its entirety.
Yes there have been a number of builders who've just basically said "I'm going to get out of the home building business do you want to buy my subdivision or my lot position?" And most of the time we've been able to buy those from them on an option basis as opposed to cashing out the builder because certainly we don't need any additional employees from that builder nor any additional land on our books.
So the preferred way is just to slowly but surely working out of his position or her position.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then same line of questioning.
Is there opportunities are there more opportunities in the distressed market maybe to buy some move-up subdivisions than there are entry-level at this point? Yes I don't think there's a big difference.
I mean clearly most of the subdivisions out there we think are in the entry-level portion of the business and it's all tied specifically and frankly to the banks determining what asset they're going to sell when.
And some of them are moving move-up subdivisions some of them are moving entry level subdivisions.
But then it gets back to truly what is it in that particular locale because what's move-up in Seattle is not move-up in San Antonio Texas.
Our next question is from Alex Barron with Housing Research Center.
I think you guys have done a really good job of anticipating I guess the length of the downturn and therefore aggressively paying down your debt.
Just kind of wanted to get your outlook for what you guys will continue to do on that front over the next year or 2? We've done quite a bit here in April.
We have another maturity in August.
We have now taken out our 2012 maturity so we don't have anything really due or won't until May of 2013.
I would expect we would still incrementally repurchase some additional debt as we find opportunities in the market.
Our pace for those opportunities has slowed this year.
We've had a little over $60 million each quarter and so I wouldn't expect it to be a lot different than that.
Hopefully we'll still see opportunities to continue at that pace for a few more quarters.
It's really a balance and we're balancing our liquidity with our overall balance sheet and with making sure that we still have some capital available to the extent we see opportunities in our business.
And so we have a sufficient working capital to keep the homes in inventory that we need to keep when we see the demand and so that's really the considerations that we're considering.
And as Bill mentioned we expect to be closer to 40% in terms of gross leverage by the end of the year and that's a really comfortable level for us in terms of gross leverage.
Okay.
My second question I guess you guys have already touched on a number of questions related to SG&amp;A but I'm still trying to understand I guess a little bit of sort of what drove the sequential increase.
Was it more like what I would call the fixed portion of the SG&amp;A went up? Or was it more of variable stuff like commissions and that kind of thing? And I guess I'm struggling a little bit to get to your $475 million number so I'm just trying to get some comfort there.
The 2 items that we mentioned in our prepared remarks for the sequential increase of $4.3 million were advertising costs related to the spring selling season.
Our sequential increase in advertising costs from first quarter to second quarter was a little over $2 million.
We would not expect to continue spending that level of advertising going forward post the spring selling season.
And the second factor is a little more than $2 million from payroll taxes.
And this is a seasonal factor that occurs every year for us.
When the calendar year rolls over any employees whose earnings are higher than the FICO limitations began paying social security tax again.
And the company's portion of that begins being paid in the first part of the year.
So we always see a sequential increase in our payroll taxes from our December quarter to our March quarter.
And those 2 items fully account for the sequential increase in our SG&amp;A.
With those seasonal factors with the actions that we're taking right now throughout our company we expect that we can reduce our pace of SG&amp;A in the second half of the year and come in below the pace we've showed the first 2 quarters.
And just to be clear we're talking about with the previous caller we are absolutely confident that our SG&amp;A for the second half of the year is going to come in at under $450 million.
That's $475 million.
Our goals are to be below $475 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Kenneth Zener with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
With a 40% if you hit 40% gross leverage by year end and let's say you get your DTA back which is perhaps possible given that you might have 2 sequential positive years and if the outlook is positive what would you guys do with the capital and what does that kind of say about the growth prospects if you get all this equity back? It's obviously not cash but that would just significantly reduce your gross  leverage from that 40% number? Well to the extent when the DTA comes on I'm not necessarily endorsing your assumption it will come on at year end but to the extent that it does again it's non-cash.
There's more flexibility on the balance sheet and certainly it puts us in a very strong position when we see opportunities in the market and when we see we feel more comfortable with investing in our business to take advantage of the eventual upturn.
It gives us a lot of flexibility.
We would have room to increase leverage and have capital to invest in our business at that point.
Yes.
It will be interesting.
I guess another question it's kind of related to Don your comment about a very slow recovery which I think is an accurate outlook.
With a slow recovery can you comment on the dynamic that you as well as the public builders kind of face in terms of profitability to the extent you keep capitalizing interest to inventory? Obviously you're targeting not expensing it.
But to the extent that the recovery is delayed each year everybody including yourself is picking up maybe 150 bps or a little more of headwind on your inventory dollars that you're carrying.
And what does that kind of say about the recovery prospects? I know you're trying to blend in new land but is there kind of a hurdle that's always being raised to the extent you continue to capitalize interest on the active inventory? I think Mike would like to put a little color on that.
So...
On the active inventory Ken we're only capitalizing the interest associated with our eligible or active inventory in a given quarter.
We're directly expensing the balance of it.
And if you look at our capitalized interest roll forward we're actually expensing through cost of sales with our closings in a given quarter a very similar amount a little bit greater actually than what we're capitalizing in any given quarter.
For our inventory that's not currently active we're not capitalizing any interest.
It's not adding to a future drag or a future gross margin reduction that we're going to have to have.
And with our reduction in our debt and our reduction in our leverage our expectations over the next couple of years is that the impact of the interest on our margin will decline.
We will actually see some wind at our backs in terms of improvement in margin from interest over the next couple of years because of the debt reductions we've made.
Our next question is from Michael Smith with JMP Securities.
Just a quick question on some regional land issues.
I'm wondering what it looks like regionally in specific metros as far as your ability to find lots to pencil out? We've been hearing a lot about the shortage of land supply and the shortage of lots that are out there especially in good locations.
I'm wondering if you can just give us some regional color on that and if that's in any way slowing your progress in any particular metros? We're not really finding a shortage of finished lots in any of our markets currently.
In fact we have more opportunities in those markets than we're actually contracting for and it affords us the opportunity to push for a good lot price in order to enhance our gross margins to meet our underwriting guidelines.
The other thing as I've noticed this year is that there are more and more banks are actually dealing with their foreclosed assets and a couple of the banks we have been working with for several years who we haven't gotten very many deals from are all of a sudden now we're contracting with those banks.
So I'm optimistic that there are still plenty of assets out there.
Finished lots that banks are holding that are working their way through the system such that we can continue to supplement our lot position.
And don't forget we're still by virtue of our size and by virtue of what a big percentage we are of each one of our markets we are definitely the preferred buyer in each one of these markets.
Yes.
I was going to a follow-up with that.
Do you think that maybe some of the difference between your comments and some other builders and some of the private guys we've talked to or land brokers is that you're in a better position that get whatever lots are out there either on pricing or even just your access to them? Absolutely.
And as we keep reiterating to everyone is is that by virtue of keeping more specs than the typical builder does in a subdivision largely because of the fact that we don't spend as much advertising dollars as many other builders because we rely upon our relationship with realtors to sell those homes more so than a lot of our competition yes without a doubt we continue to add lots.
And one of the thing’s I think historically we've been more willing to do than some other builders that would get very small lot positions.
Whether it's 20 lots or 30 lots we don't rule them out simply because it's a smaller position.
Okay.
And then just one quick follow-up.
To the extent that you guys are doing a little bit more move-up product and want to move in that direction do you see that as slowing your conversion rate at all? Or is it something that you feel like you can get a move-up house built just about as quickly as you could something that's a little smaller and more first-time? I can tell you we're turning our inventory faster than we've ever turned it and if you take a look at our construction cycle times today they are shorter than they've been for many many years.
So as a result I don't think that we slow our conversion at all and we're not talking about building McMansions we're talking about building second-time homes which are slightly bigger with a few more amenities in them than our entry level homes.
So it's pretty much the same product little bit larger a few more amenities.
So it's not a new entry for us at all.
We've done this before in the past.
We've always had a portion of it as our business as our core business.
We're just increasing it as a portion of our core business.
Our next question is from Mike Widner with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Most of mine have actually been answered already but just maybe just following up on the gross margin issues.
In some of your peers we've seen some one-timers in gross margins like warranty reserve unwind and other sort of one-time charges.
Just wondering I mean there was a nice bit of a sequential improvement there I was just wondering if you could talk about that.
Is there anything in there that we might not see repeated or any kind of tailwinds or anything like that? Mike we didn't have anything in the quarter that was kind of unusual or extraordinary and it was a very consistent comp quarter-to-quarter in some of those other items.
The change for us quarter-to-quarter was really in core.
And just to parse it exactly as it will be in Q -- well actually we don't talk about sequential in the Q.
We had a 60-basis-point improvement; 50 basis points was from core and 10 basis points was from improvements in our interest amortizing through cost of sales.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
So appreciate that.
And then I don't know just any particular color on parts of the country that are looking better where you think things may be turning faster and sooner versus other parts that seem to be lagging behind both in terms of buyer demand and then just broad economic conditions? I think it's pretty much all pretty soft in most parts of the country.
And to differentiate between soft softer and softest I'm not sure it makes a whole lot of sense.
It's just very competitive in each one of our markets out there.
Until we see some job growth in all of those it's soft softer and softest.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I love your optimism Don.
It's...
Let's go back here.
The one thing that we want everyone to know and someone has brought up today we want to make sure that we are telling you exactly what we're seeing out there.
Because the last thing we want to do -- we have optimism and we do have optimism for the second half of the year versus the first half of the year.
But we don't have a lot of optimism in terms of the next 2 or 3 years being significantly better than what this year is going to be.
Yes we've positioned ourselves to compete in this soft market and we are optimistic about our ability to compete as well or better than anyone else and perform as well as we possibly can in a tough market.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Right.
I certainly appreciate that and I guess we also have to just take the personalities into account.
And if we think back a couple years you were on the call telling us all 12 months were going to suck.
And so at least you're not saying that.
So soft is better than sucking.
Actually you know what? I was a little conservative because more than 12 months has sucked.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Rehaut with JP Morgan.
Just a couple of follow-ups.
You mentioned community count up 20% year-over-year for the quarter so that obviously implies a much more dramatic decline in sales per community.
And I was wondering if that's more because of just the tough comps a year ago which everyone's aware of.
Or in addition was there anything from perhaps smaller sized communities that reflect perhaps your more conservative approach to trying to focus more on option and quicker turns? I think it's definitely a combination.
The year ago comp is going be the largest reason out of those.
Incrementally in there as we have had some of our older communities that were larger roll off we have been replacing them with smaller newer communities.
And then we did open communities during this quarter that are probably not producing sales force just yet that should kick in in future quarters.
Okay appreciate that.
And just on the 50 bps of core improvement in the gross margin with incentives flat then I would assume -- is it more than construction costs being lower or just the higher margin contribution from newer communities? Or is that more or less the same thing? Yes it's all of the above.
It's our continued work on our vertical construction costs.
It's our continued to work on our lot costs as well and the increasing role of new communities.
As we bring on more new communities that we've contracted for in the current market those come in at higher margins from the outset.
And so as we continue to work newer communities in that gives us the opportunity to improve margins or if a particular market is declining at least maintain margins.
And so all of those things contribute to the continuing improvement and we would hope to be able to continue to do that.
What we don't know is what the market will bring to us.
Right.
And then just one last one I think bigger picture Don kind of talking about your broader view over the next year or 2 or 3.
Going back 5 years I don't think many foresaw the type of decline and the degree of magnitude and breadth or period of time.
At this point I think there's still a lot of people in the market that conversely it's just out of mind to think we could get back to a 30-year average of 1.5 million starts.
I'm wondering if given that you said that you really haven't seen a pickup in employment growth which is really one of the key central drivers to demand.
We've had a couple of months right now of 200 000 jobs per month and I'm wondering if that continues as economists kind of -- and economists’ assumptions are very subject or change day-to-day hour-to-hour.
But if we see a 150 000 200 000 per month rate continue and you're talking about a couple million jobs a year I'm wondering if that changes your outlook at all.
Clearly it will improve our business.
And I see those numbers that are being released.
I guess I'm somewhat suspect of those numbers.
And it seems like so many of the government numbers are revised from month-to-month and quarter-to-quarter.
So today I don't feel warm and fuzzy about the minimal job growth that we've seen.
I think we need significantly more job growth.
If we're still sitting with the over 8% unemployment rate your neighbor still doesn't have a job I also doesn't think that that incorporates the number of people who have dropped out of the workforce or are looking for a job.
So I've read the numbers where basically our effective unemployment rate is closer to 17% or 18%.
So those numbers don't bode well for homebuilding.
And those people who are outside the 8% who are in the 17% or 18% those people have got to get back in the job market also.
So right now I see minimal effect on our business.
If it continues at this pace it'll help us.
But I still ask myself what the real unemployment rate is how many people are not counted in the 8%.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.</strong> Just one quick question on what were your customer deposits at the end of the quarter? We have it give us one moment.
We're at an average of about $2 400 per house...
Inc.</strong> So at 1.2% or so I mean do you guys think about maybe increasing that just to fend off the cancellation rate or keep that lower? Frankly that deposit has very little to do with our cancellation rate.
Most of the time if someone's going to cancel we typically don't keep their earnest money deposit because it creates a lot of ill will.
It's more of a sense of "Yes I'm interested in buying this home.
Let's go forward and see if we can qualify and close."  But it's not a good track record to be confiscating people's earnest money out there.
It's also at somewhat a typical percentage either dollar amount or percentage by market.
And if we were to go outside the norm and require much more money upfront that could actually put us at a disadvantage in terms of selling.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I just had one question.
Don when you were talking earlier you said that in order to have positive year-over-year orders in the third quarter you have to have I think roughly sequentially flat orders.
And the way you said that suggested to me that you were not expecting to have roughly flat orders.
And if you look at your history there's plenty of examples when you can have higher third quarter orders than the second quarter.
So I'm just wondering more specifically what your expectation was for the third quarter relative to the second quarter? You're right Adam.
We have had years in which the June quarter exceeded the March quarter and we've had years in which the March quarter has exceeded the June quarter so it is certainly possible to be flat or better in our June quarter.
We are certainly hopeful that that will occur but given really the inconsistency that we see from the week to week and market-to-market today it's difficult to say for sure if our June quarter will exceed our March quarter.
But we're certainly hopeful it will.
And frankly I would say to you to put a little additional color on it I think we started the selling season very strong.
And I think the selling season is not as strong as what it was at the beginning so that's why we're tempering our expectation of third quarter.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
We thank you for joining us on our call this second quarter.
Clearly we're very excited about our 47% sequential increase in sales and our 5 200-plus homes in backlog because I think that positions us well for Q3 and Q4.
Clearly our SG&amp;A is an issue to us.
We've taken the action that's necessary to bring our SG&amp;A in line.
As Bill mentioned our expectation for the second half of the year is to have our SG&amp;A come in for at less than $475 million which I think will put our SG&amp;A back in line in Q3 and Q4 to more normalized levels.
I want to tell all of our salespeople and all other people in the company we think you've done a good first half of the year.
We have tough competition for the second half of the year.
We had great sales.
We had great sales force sequentially in the second quarter over the first quarter.
Ninth consecutive year in the row that you're the largest builder in America.
We're all very proud of that.
As I tell all of our salespeople “Execute the competition and outperform your competitors.” Thank you and good luck.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America's Builder The Largest Builder In the United States Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Donald Tomnitz.
Thank you.
Mr.
Tomnitz you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Vice President and Controller.
As usual before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there's no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? We have made many adjustments throughout our company to be competitive and profitable in the current housing environment.
Our June results compared to the March quarter demonstrate the progress we are making.
Our home closings and gross margin increased.
SG&amp;A and interest expense decreased and Financial Services pretax income increased resulting in net a income of $28.7 million for the quarter.
Our balance sheet and liquidity remain strong with cash and marketable securities of $1.1 billion and net homebuilding leverage under 20%.
We have also seen normal seasonality return to our business this fiscal year.
Sales in the March quarter reflected a significant sequential increase to mark the start of the selling season.
And our sales orders in the June quarter were comparable to the March quarter.
Our sales order backlog grew throughout the selling season increasing in March to 5 300 homes and further in June to 5 600 homes.
Closings in the third quarter were greater than the first and second quarters and we expect fourth quarter closings to be greater than the third.
We are now solidly in a position to be profitable for the full fiscal year.
Given the weak macroeconomic and housing conditions we remain realistic in our expectations.
We'll continue to manage our business to compete in the current and future market.
We plan to continue to adjust our price points and product offerings to the demand we see in each of our individual markets.
Bill? Our home building operations generated pretax income of $22.2 million for the quarter which included $9.9 million of inventory impairment and lot option charges as well as a $6.5 million loss on early retirement of debt.
Financial Services pre-tax income was $6.7 million which included $3.5 million of recourse expense.
Our net income for the quarter was $28.7 million or $0.09 per diluted share compared to $50.5 million or $0.16 per diluted share in the prior year quarter.
Mike? Our third quarter home sales revenues decreased 29% to $975 million on 4 555 homes closed from $1.4 billion on 6 805 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was up 6% compared to the prior year and up 3% sequentially to $213 900.
These increases are due to the slight changes in both our product and geographic mix.
Homes closed in the June quarter represented 86% of the beginning backlog compared to 91% in the March quarter.
We expect that our backlog conversion rate going forward will continue to average below 90%.
Don? Net sales numbers for the third quarter were 4 874 homes down only 1% sequentially reflecting a typical spring selling season pattern.
Net sales orders were also down 1% from the same period last year.
However the average sales price on net sales orders was up 5% year-over-year to $219 000 resulting in a 4% year-over-year increase in the value of our quarterly net sales orders.
Our cancellation rate was 27% and our active selling communities were essentially flat sequentially.
Our sales backlog increased 26% from the prior year and 6% sequentially to 5 600 homes or $1.2 billion.
Bill? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenues in the quarter was 16.5% down 70 basis points from the year-ago period.
However our margin increased 30 basis points sequentially primarily due to improvement in our core margin resulting from our continuing efforts to improve our construction costs manage our homes and inventory efficiently and add new communities with higher margins.
Stacey? In our third quarter impairment analysis we reviewed all projects in the company and determined that projects with a pre-impairment carrying value of $28.1 million were impaired which resulted in a $7.8 million impairment charges the majority of which were in Florida and California.
We refer to our projects which have indicators of potential impairment but were not impaired as our watch list which represents those projects deemed to be at the highest risk for future impairment.
After this quarter's impairments our watch list now totaled $377 million down from $432 million in March with the largest concentrations in California Illinois and Arizona.
Our inventory impairment process in future quarters will incorporate any changes in market conditions and any adjustments we make in our business.
Mike? In the third quarter we reduced our Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense which includes all corporate overhead to $113.7 million from $143.5 million in the year ago quarter.
As a percentage of Homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A expense increased to 11.7% compared to 10.4% in the year ago quarter.
Sequentially our Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense decreased $9.5 million and improved to 11.7% as a percentage of Homebuilding revenues compared to 16.8% in the March quarter.
We continue to actively manage our SG&amp;A levels relative to our expected number of homes closed.
Stacey? Homebuilding interest expense was $10.1 million for the quarter which represented 32% of our Homebuilding interest incurred compared to $19.6 million or 47% of our interest incurred in the year ago quarter.
We directly expensed a portion of our interest incurred when our Homebuilding debt level exceeds our active inventory.
Our third quarter Homebuilding interest incurred $31.4 million decreased 24% compared to the prior year due to our significant debt reductions in fiscal 2010 and 2011.
Bill? Financial Services revenue for the quarter was $23.8 million a decrease of 14% compared to the year-ago quarter.
Financial Services pretax income was $6.7 million this quarter compared to $8.9 million in the year ago quarter.
86% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our Homebuilding operations.
Our mortgage company handled the financing for 61% of our home buyers this quarter with virtually all loans meeting eligibility requirements for sale to Fannie Mae Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.
Government loans accounted for 62% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter.
Our mortgage company's new borrowers during the quarter had an average FICO score of 700 and an average loan to value ratio of 92%.
Don? Our total inventory increased sequentially by $61 million excluding non-cash items reflecting seasonal growth.
We increased our homes and inventory by $100 million to support our higher sales backlog.
This increase was offset by a reduction in residential land and lot inventory of $39 million.
Our homes in inventory at the end of June totaled 11 400 up 900 homes from March.
As of June 30 1 200 of our homes were models 5 800 were speculative homes and 2 500 of the specs were completed.
We continue to manage our total homes in inventory relative to our expectations of sales demand.
We offer spec homes primarily to accommodate our first-time relocation buyers.
Mike? In our third fiscal quarter our investments in land lots and development costs totaled $210 million which was primarily unfinished lots.
Future investments in finished lots will remain largely dependent on our sales pace while our spending on land and development costs will continue to be at relatively low levels.
As of June 30 2011 we owned approximately 86 000 lots of which 22 000 are finished.
We controlled an additional 29 000 lots through option contracts with the net earnest money deposit balance for these slots of $14.8 million.
We are focused on managing our supply of owned finished lots in line with our sales demand in a low-risk capital-efficient manner.
Bill? We ended the quarter with $1.1 billion of Homebuilding unrestricted cash and marketable securities.
Cash used in operations for the June quarter totaled $54.2 million primarily due to increased homes in inventory in response to seasonal demand and an increase in mortgage loans held for sale due to our sequential increase in volume.
During the quarter we repaid at maturity the remaining $70.1 million of or 6% notes and redeemed the remaining $112.3 million of our 5 3/8% notes due 2012 which resulted in a $6.3 million loss on early retirement of debt.
Our remaining debt repurchase authorization at June 30 2011 was $241.7 million.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at June 30 was $1.8 billion of which $106 million matures on August 15.
After that our next debt maturity is in May of 2013.
Stacey? During the quarter we purchased approximately 3.5 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $10.88 for a total cost of $38.6 million.
At June 30 2011 we had $61.4 million remaining on our stock repurchase authorization.
At June 30 our Homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash and marketable securities was 19.9%.
Gross Homebuilding leverage improved 510 basis points from a year ago to 40.5% primarily due to our lower debt balance.
Don? We continue to focus on the fundamentals of our business bringing homes and communities to the market with a product for both move-up and entry-level buyers at the right price points.
Controlling finished lots closely monitoring our home spec inventory in relation to our sales controlling our construction and SG&amp;A costs and maintaining our strong balance sheet with a significant cash balance.
The specific points which we are particularly proud of this quarter include: our gross margins up 30 basis points sequentially.
Notwithstanding all of our previous substantial improvements in our SG&amp;A over the last 4 years our Homebuilding SG&amp;A was down 510 basis points sequentially a major improvement.
Our strong backlog of 5 600 homes at June 30 which positions us for fiscal 2011 profitability.
Thank you to all of our D.R.
Horton teammates for continuing to work hard and navigate through a difficult homebuilding environment.
We are very proud of your efforts which have led to our solid profitability for the quarter.
Our goal is to too continue to aggregate our national market share market by market.
As we do so we must remember one thing as we pursue this market aggregation: Nothing happens at D.R.
Horton until we sell and close a home.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll host any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> I have 2 questions.
The first if you could talk about the SG&amp;A.
Actually I thought the operating leverage you got on a sequential basis was pretty strong.
But it looks like there -- last quarter SG&amp;A bumped up a bit versus the first quarter and I can't quite recall why.
So could you remind me of that? And then also just talk about what percent of your spending should be variable now versus fixed as we go into the fourth quarter where you said we should see some higher closings? Yes Adam.
If we go back to last quarter.
In the first quarter of the calendar year we see some additional costs on payroll taxes as the year rolls over on employees that are over the FICO limit.
We are also seeing advertising expenses for the spring selling season which should increase.
So clearly as we move sequentially some of those advertising costs are not -- we don't spend as much on advertising as we get later in the year.
And as we talked about last quarter we're making a lot of adjustments market by market subdivision by subdivision in order to be profitable throughout our company and so the decrease this quarter really reflects the progress we're making in those efforts.
LLC</strong> And I also wanted -- my second question was can you talk about your profitability by region and beyond just reporting regions more towards some of your submarkets? And if you -- what percentage or rough percentage would you guess that your markets are profitable or breakeven? And also can you talk about Texas versus outside of Texas? Is Texas responsible for the bulk of the profits or are you getting a nice contribution from some other places as well? Well as I said last quarter when someone asked me this question and we used to get into rankings of our various markets especially during the peak and one of our competitors does I think a much better job of grading his communities than we are capable of.
But to be frank most of all of our markets are soft softer softest as I said last quarter.
And the reality of life is if Texas continues to be a strong market for us although it's not as good a market as it was a year ago with the tax credit because we have quite a few spec homes out there for buyers who bought homes in the Texas market during the tax credit.
But in general Texas is one of our stronger markets and the Pacific Northwest is a good market for us.
The rest of the markets -- to rank the markets will be like herding cats.
It's just a very difficult thing to do.
Nothing is really strong out there.
And I would reiterate that most of our markets will continue to still be soft softer and softest as we continue to aggregate market share in each one of those in order to make them stronger markets.
And Adam as you could look at our previous filings you could -- where we file our profitability by region you could see that certainly the majority of our profits have been coming from our South Central region.
This year to date we would expect that that's still be the majority of our profits here in the short term.
But the remainder of our markets continue to progress.
Certainly some are around breakeven or slight profits and we  certainly still have some of the loss as well.
But our focus is to improve and to be profitable really across the company.
We're making progress on that but we're not quite there yet.
Our next question is coming from the line of Josh Levin with Citigroup.
So as we head into the back half of 2012 -- excuse me 2011 and you start to plan for 2012 how are you going to position the company for 2012 in terms of the sales environment? Are you expecting flat sales up sales down sales on a year-to-year basis? Well We're anticipating to be able to grow the company in 2012.
I will say to you that based upon what I see macroeconomically and certainly with what's going on in Washington DC today and most frankly the lack of jobs being created in this country the high unemployment rate I would anticipate that '12 will be better than '11 but I don't expect it to be significantly better in '12 than '11.
Our goal is to grow the company continue to be how do we aggregate market share in each one of our respective markets.
And we're well positioned for that Josh.
We have adequate finished lots that we own.
And we also control many more finished lots in our options contracts.
So we got a lot of  flexibility in our business to meet an increase in demand if we see that in the market.
Okay.
And my second question is about mortgage availability over the past 3 or 4 months.
Would you say it's gotten easier harder or has there been no change in terms of your buyers being able to get mortgages? I think there's been really very little change.
I will say one thing when you look at our average FICO scores this quarter I was surprised to see that they had moved downward to 700 versus what they had been in the past of 703 704 705.
I don't know whether that's an anomaly or somewhat of a relaxation in some of the underwriting guidelines.
I really don't think that's the case.
But nevertheless I think that right now most of our buyers are able to find mortgages out there.
And it's not as if we are not able to sell homes because of lack of mortgage availability.
Our next question is from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
First question.
I was wondering if you could just discuss the trends during the quarter in terms of pricing and incentive levels how you saw them throughout the quarter.
And as far as we've been able to tell they've been plus or minus kind of steady year-to-date.
So I just wanted your thoughts there.
I think you're right.
We saw a sequential improvement in our gross margin.
A lot of that was product mix and our continued focus on cost control rather than any real price appreciation or a change in incentives that we're seeing in the market.
So consistent and also a little more predictable than what we've seen in the past.
I also believe that as we began -- as we told you last quarter to focus a little bit more on the move up part of the market.
And I think that we have a little bit better pricing and a little bit better margin in those units and we continue to explore and develop that portion of our business.
The second question.
I guess as we've kind of been thinking about the land market remaining relatively tough but still I guess some opportunities here and there on a selective basis you mentioned that you anticipate growing the company primarily more for market share gains.
But I was wondering if you could kind of give us a sense of how that translates from a community count perspective.
And I know that sometimes that some companies like to refer to community count more than others.
But just getting a sense from a land investment and active communities how are we to think about 2012? Well we continue to aggressively pursue every deal that makes sense in every one of our markets.
We're not big on land ownership or finished lot ownership.
We still are trying to be an asset light Homebuilding company.
And most of our deals that we're entering into the vast majority of them are rolling option deals.
We continue to be I think the preferred buyer in most of these markets simply because of the fact that in many of our markets we are the largest builder.
And if not we're working our way towards being the largest builder.
And we also as I've said before we have a different business model than the rest of our competitors and that is that we do maintain specs for the move-up and relocation buyers.
So as a result we are continuing to pursue every deal that makes sense out there in the marketplace.
If that ends up with us increasing our community count next year so be it.
But at the same time we're also calling our existing communities.
And if they're not performing for us we're trying to re-trade the deal.
And if they won't be re-traded to a lower lot price then we are dropping those communities.
So it's a constant battle of adding new communities and calling forward performing communities.
So as a result I would hope our community count would go up but we don't know until we work our way through all those deals.
And we would also like to see our absorption per community going up.
So we actually think there's probably some room for growth without an absolute increase in our community count.
Our next question is from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I wanted to see if you could discuss your thinking on capital and cash flow.
For example what drove the decision to repurchase shares in the quarter which I think was the first repurchase you guys have done since '06.
And then secondly based on current planned debt repurchases and cash flow where do you think the net debt capital ratio ends? I'll start with the stock repurchases and then defer to Mike or Bill on the ending capital.
The stock repurchase this quarter was really opportunistic for us.
There was a time period of a couple of weeks where our stock prices dropped quite a bit from where we had been trading.
We've really been focused on reducing our debt over the last 2 years.
And if you look at our total debt balance we're about down about 50% from where we were in June of 2009.
So we've done a lot to restructure where we're now down to just over 40% gross leverage just under 20% net leverage.
We still have an adequate cash balance and so we opportunistically -- we took some dollars and hedged a little bit of the potential dilution from our convertible bond that's outstanding.
So the shares we bought this quarter represent a little less than 10% of the potential dilution and the shares under the convert would be issued at a price of $13.06 compared with $10.88 that we paid this quarter.
And in terms of our approach to our cash balances we do still plan to maintain a significant cash balance worth $1.1 billion of cash and securities this quarter.
Next quarter as we close more homes and we move into this traditionally the seasonally slower period we would expect to generate some cash next quarter.
And so we would expect our cash balance to be higher than it is here at June 30.
As we look at debt repurchase as Stacey said we have made significant strides and reduced our debt significantly and our leverage is around the lowest points that it's ever been in our company.
So we feel like we're in a good position on debt.
And frankly the remaining debt outstanding that we have there's a lot less float on that debt now as well so there is less debt available for us to repurchase going forward.
We'll still look at it.
As there's good opportunities to utilize our cash for debt repurchases we will.
But we would expect that the level of debt repurchases to be significantly slower than we've seen in the last 2 years.
And one another thing on our repurchases.
This is a use of cash that we have on the balance sheet.
It doesn't mean that we're choosing to do this and foregoing another opportunity.
We have enough cash to pursue opportunities in our business.
We invested more than $200 million into land and finished lots this quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> And then secondly just on the mortgage repurchase expense in the quarter it was a modest increase sequentially.
Have you seen any change in behavior on the part of banks? And can you give the level of mortgage repurchase reserve that you have? Our mortgage repurchase activity has been somewhat consistent.
Our repurchase requests have been in line with our expectations and we continually look at that every quarter based upon what we've seen coming in.
And we project forward and we're projecting that this activity will continue as we have been projecting through 2012.
We continually adjust the reserves.
I believe the balance is right now...
About $30 million.
$30 million all in all our mortgage reserves which is consistent with where it was at the beginning of the quarter.
Our next question is from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
First question.
I want to ask a little bit more theoretical question on the share repurchases.
I think it's great that you guys are out getting capital and trying to minimize the impact from the dilutions from the convertible.
But I wanted to get an idea of how you decide what the right cash number is? Why is it $1.1 billion or $1.2 billion? Wherever are you going to end the year? And as you look forward how do you think about capital budgeting getting plans to grow the business and be able to continue to gain share and grow the business as we go forward in what might be a flat environment? How much cash do you need to do that? Good question David and that's something we spend a lot of time looking at.
What we do is we take a look at what our first what our working capital needs are on an annual basis.
This is a seasonal business.
Certain periods of the year we flow cash.
And certain periods of the year we invest cash in our business.
Right now with the size of our business today the difference between the peak and the valley in our working capital cash flows can be several hundred million dollars.
So today if we were to end this year at say $1.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents and at the end of the year we would expect that to be our high cash balance.
We would invest several hundred million dollars in the business throughout the year.
And that would still leave us in that safe  $700 million or $800 million range at the low point of our cash in the spring selling season.
Today without a Homebuilding revolving credit facility in place we feel like we need to and we want to keep a significant cushion in our cash.
We feel like that level is adequate for us and it also still provides us the opportunity and the flexibility to invest further cash if we see more growth opportunities in the business.
Obviously going forward if we see even more growth opportunities we have a lot of flexibility on our balance sheet to add further leverage add further debt if we need to when we need additional growth capital from there.
But today we feel like we're in a very good flexible position with our low leverage strong balance sheet and high cash balance.
And that gives us the flexibility to really do whatever we need to in terms of investing the business or continuing to reduce our debt balances.
We just hope the business gets back to a point where we would have to re-lever.
That would be a good problem for us.
And so my second question.
We've seen one public builder put together a buy-the-rent [ph] program buying foreclosures and then rent them out.
It would seem like with the big capital balance the big cash balance the efficiency you guys have in the building process you're probably the most efficient builder in the country.
It would seem like that's a great business for you.
And I'm wondering if you've thought about kind of thinking about starting sort of buy-the-rent [ph] maybe a JV maybe something from that bringing in a financial partner too and running that as part of what you do? David with all due respect we've entered into a few ancillary businesses during my 29 years here with D.
R Horton.
I know one thing that D.R.
and I are not confused about and that is what our business is and what our business is going to be.
And we know we are a new home builder.
And our goal is to build sell close homes and make money on houses.
And the ancillary businesses  we are going to leave to our competitors.
Our next question is from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
I wanted to ask about the backlog conversion ratio coming in below 90% in the third quarter.
It was over 90% in pretty much every quarter last fiscal year and in the second half of the fiscal year before that as well.
And you mentioned that it's going to stay below 90% going forward.
I was just wondering what's the kind of a headline read on that? Was that just basically a function of the tax credit and having a higher inventory position to take advantage of that and now we're returning to normal? Is that the way to look at it? How should we think about that? The tax credit certainly had an impact on our conversion rate because especially looking at the year ago quarter last year in June people had to close by certain dates.
So we've seen some very high conversion rates in our June quarter last year.
Throughout the downturn our conversion rate has been higher than our historical levels.
If you go back pre-downturn we would typically average somewhere around a 60% backlog conversion.
It would typically be higher in our fourth quarter as we deliver more homes right at the end of our fiscal year.
Throughout the downturn we had more spikes available.
There was less of a planning period for people buying houses because more of the buyers were first time home buyers.
Existing homes weren't selling and so our backload churned more quickly.
We're now seeing that slow down a little bit.
We're seeing a few more build-to-orders come in -- presales.
And our spec balance is down from where we were last year.
We're just over 50% now instead of mid-50s.
And so those are a few of the factors that are leading us to believe that our backlog conversion rate is going to stay on average below 90%.
There'll probably still be some quarters where we're above 90% but we think that we're probably going to return more to our long-term run rate on the backlog conversion.
In addition on average our buyers are staying in backlog perhaps a little bit longer as they work through some of the mortgage qualification underwriting processes.
That process has elongated by several days few weeks.
And that will generally push our conversion rate down a little bit as well all things being equal.
Got it.
Very very helpful.
And second question I wanted to ask was on your land strategy.
You folks have been very very flexible about pursuing smaller land deals smaller certainly than you would have in 2005 and 2006.
And as you were mentioning in terms of the rolling lot option deals which would obviously limit the size of your take as well now that's shown up in -- and I think Stacey mentioned this in terms of lower absorption rates.
That certainly what we have seen it in our data as well.
How will that evolve going forward? I mean your backlog has stabilized here.
I mean the low point seems to have been 2 quarters ago.
And so will you begin to get a bit bigger in terms of some of these deals? I mean will you begin to be kind of more open in terms of the terms you are considering? How will that evolve going forward and what effect might that have on absorptions? I think that's a good question.
And clearly our focus is to move through this next up cycle on an asset-light basis i.e.
that really don't want to own land for any period greater than 2 years.
And to the extent that it takes us longer than 2 years to work our way through a land position then we're going to be seeking other investors or whomever to lay off the land too or basically have an option on the second half of that land.
But there's one thing that I know that we were not good at and I'm not sure very many of our competitors have been or any are good and that is trying to adjust our land position as the market begin to decline.
So as a result our focus is to continue to be a land-light company and to focus on rolling options and protect our balance sheet from the impairments that we've had in the past.
So clearly there are a number of opportunities where we're going to have to step up some and we're doing that in some of our markets today.
Typically we have an underwriting guideline as we put cash out  for a deal of the day.
We'd like to have that cash back in 12 months or less.
And we've expanded that horizon to 15 18 19 months in some instances in some markets but clearly still under our goal to keep it less than 2 years.
Our next question is from the line of Ken Zener of KeyBanc.
Don you made comments of being profitable this year.
Some of it is from a tax benefit.
But can you talk about your thoughts about recovering into your DTA given that you're the first homebuilder it looks like to be posting positive EPS in two sequential years? I would say to you that we have a very good staff here and they are very conservative.
And I would say to you as  I've said before we probably will be very conservative in terms of taking that DTA back onto our balance sheet.
We're focused on being profitable.
And once we -- clearly once our staff realizes that they have confidence that we're going to be profitable in the go-ahead or the future I'm sure they'll bring that back on.
But I'll let Bill speak more specifically to that.
Ken what we are most focused on is earning back the DTA in terms of profitability and earning that back in terms of not having to pay taxes because of the NOL that we're carrying forward and utilizing our NOLs.
In terms of ultimately how that gets treated on the balance sheet obviously we're now -- I'm glad that we're now back in a position where we can talk about it because we have a profitable quarter and we're looking at having a year this year without any benefit from tax credit or anything else.
We will certainly be looking at our level of profitability and our consistency of profitability and our forward visibility to profitability.
And if we can build on what we started here this year and build on to it into next year then those conversations will get more serious.
It's very difficult to predict the exact timing of when it will be appropriate to bring it on but we can build on this and it will happen.
It just seems interesting relative to your capital allocation with your debt to cap already in that low 40.
Obviously that would have an impact there relative to how you're treating capital.
I guess the other question I have is and I apologize if I missed it initially how many of your closings came from land bottom in the last four or six quarters? How many of your lots are still mothballed? What's the cash-carry costs of those lots? And just refresh us on how that goes to the income statement.
Well in terms of closings on new communities I think we've talked about it the last couple of quarters.
It's now certainly the majority of our business.
The majority of our closings are coming from that.
It's just really kind of ongoing operations now as far as our closing coming from newer communities.
Yes and for us the newer communities are 2009 and later which may be beyond your horizon of 4 to 6 months -- or excuse me 4 to 6 quarters.
In terms of the carrying costs on land I don't know that  any of us can give you an exact number.
If the land is inactive all the carrying costs are flowed through as SG&amp;A just carrying costs from that inventory.
Yes because as -- if land is not active and we're not in the active efforts of construction or development then those costs are not capitalized inventory and they are in our SG&amp;A today.
Would that be fair to say 4% or 5% of that stated cost on your balance sheet? No.
On average just rough numbers in the 1% range annually.
When we sold land back at the end of '08 one of the criteria that we looked at was the -- what the carrying costs were on that land.
And we certainly sold some of the land that had higher carrying costs.
So today those carrying costs are not anywhere near 4% or 5% for us.
And then land held for development on our balance sheet is probably about a third of our owned lots right now maybe a little bit less.
Our next question is from Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Just curious headed into the September quarter you have a really easy comparison and just trying to put a baseline.
Should we expect new orders to come in at above 4 000? Are you looking for pretty strong growth year-over-year? What we would typically see in our September quarter is a seasonal slowing compared to where we've been in the June quarter.
We don't have a lot of visibility into exactly what sales trends are going to be right now.
So I think all of us would be hesitant to give you any strong guidance in terms of saying that last year was an easy sales comp.
LLC</strong> I would say you were down 20% in the quarter.
So I think that this year even flat you have a pretty easy starting point? When you look back 2 years ago there was a tax credit in effect.
And the expiration date on that for closing was November 30.
And so we had very very strong sales in that September quarter.
This past year we didn't have that.
So it's hard to go back and say that it's an easy comp because it was down compared to 2 years ago.
LLC</strong> That makes sense.
I hear what you're saying.
And just -- I think that DT's comments about gaining market share what are the other levers that you feel like comfortable in terms of creating incremental gross margin expansion? Well one of the things that we continue to do in our business is to continue to control and work our hard costs down in all of our divisions.
One of the things that helps us do that clearly is by being the largest builder in the U.S.
and being the largest builder in most all of our markets and frankly having the most starts in most of those markets because clearly what our subs are trying to do they're trying to keep their crews working.
And because we're starting more homes than the other builders we're clearly are getting more competitive pricing.
That's not to say that we're happy with that competitive pricing because we're constantly on a release by release by release in every one of our markets trying to rebid and trying to create more efficiencies and asking our subcontractors and our vendors to create more efficiencies in their business.
So clearly that's one of our goals in terms of trying to increase our profitability and increase our margins.
Our profitability also clearly is going to be enhanced by our continued decrease and improvement in our SG&amp;A.
And I would say again no one probably would've thought that we could've decreased our SG&amp;A 510 basis points sequentially.
I know Don Horton believed that.
I'm not sure I completely believed that.
But clearly we've moved down the road to accomplish that.
It's amazing to me both the efficiencies on the construction site of our business in terms of labor and materials as well as the efficiencies that we're purchasing lots from our developers and our banks as well as our continued ability to find more efficiencies in a business that has been wrung out over the last 4 years.
And as much as our business has been wrung out over the last 4 years again to achieve a 510 basis point increase in SG&amp;A sequentially was a heck of an accomplishment for our people.
So I say to you that we have the strongest balance sheet.
We have the best position in the industry.
We have the best people in the industry.
And I think that we can continue to have improvements on both gross margins and SG&amp;A and profitability on a year-over-year basis.
The quarters are going to be different based upon the time of the year and the volume of business that's hitting our business at that particular time.
Our next question is from the line of Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Quick questions.
First one is on California.
There are a number of builders citing weak or weaker let me characterize that properly demand.
And your watch list continues to be tilted there.
I don't want to read too much into that because it just may be a function of higher-priced land and a bigger proportion of numbers.
But if you could characterize what you're seeing in the California market sort of over the last 2 quarters and what your expectations are that would be extremely helpful.
Well California we have -- we are down to 2 divisions in California.
And at one point in time I think that number was close to 8 divisions.
And so we've done a lot of consolidations.
As a matter of fact we had 3 divisions in California.
We now have 2 divisions in California as recently as the last 30 days.
We think the California market struggles.
Primarily they had a huge run-up during the years and they've had a huge drop in the last 4 or 5 years in terms of selling prices.
Frankly also with the state of the Californian economy there are just a lot of people moving out of California into other states of which new are benefiting.
But I think until California gets its economy fixed up there it's just not a place where businesses want to go and establish businesses.
And I think the existing businesses in California are looking for more profitable areas more cost-efficient areas to operate.
So as a result I expect California to continue to be weak.
That doesn't mean that we're not going to be successful in California.
And we are being successful in California.
And both of our divisions there are profitable and will continue I believe to be profitable but we struggle to control our costs and being able to control our operating expenses in those markets.
And the demand is just not what it needs to be.
So we continue to rightsize our operation in California.
It's a very important state to us during the upturn and it's still a good state for us today.
Where are people moving? It doesn't seem like it's Arizona.
No I would agree with that Josh.
And it doesn't seem like it's Vegas either.
So if -- I don't have too many friends out on the West Coast that are willing to make the trip to New York.
So I'm interested where you guys are seeing that -- where you guys are seeing -- what would be California strength actually showing up? I think a number of people are focusing on the Southwest in particular Texas.
I think there are some moving into New Mexico and also in -- we were up in Portland and Seattle recently that there's been some in-migration in those markets.
Certainly Portland's been an in-migration area for quite some time for Californians.
But a lot of people are moving into the state of Texas simply because this is a no state income tax right to work state and it's centrally located.
So as a result I think that a number of those companies are contemplating moving to Texas.
One last question.
One might assume that the recent deals between Bank of America Countrywide and their large semi-public and private mortgage investors should lead to fewer specific repurchase requests from those investors and hence lower requests from the banks to you.
What would your thoughts be on that? Frankly I don't really want to get into a discussion on any kind of relationship with BofA or Countrywide.
I think generally speaking we believe that we know the tale on our mortgage business.
That was the mortgages that were underwritten and sold during the peak is getting shorter and shorter.
And I think that's probably the biggest driver.
In terms of our future exposure on our mortgage company is that there just are not a lot of loans out there with a little bit of hair on them that could be possible put-backs to us.
So I think the tale is the best thing working for us today.
Okay.
And then I guess if I could just ask one last one on that same vein.
Are there any stresses or cracks that you guys are seeing as you analyze your portfolio that was outside of what I'll call the extreme danger zone which was sort of '06 '07 and maybe including '08? Are you seeing any stress as far as put-backs from laid-away maybe '09 '10.
Are you starting to see any of that? We're not seeing anything that late.
Our next question is coming from the line of Alex Barron with Housing Research Center.
I wanted to ask you a couple questions.
The first one related to your SG&amp;A.
I too was surprised at the operating leverage you got and was hoping you could expand your commentary on what you did.
Did you lay off any people? Are you paying people less? Or where did you find the cuts? To answer your questions on both of those yes.
We did decrease our level of employment.
And we have adjusted compensation in several of our divisions and other areas.
But yes we have done both.
And most substantially and sequentially we reduced a lot of our advertising activities.
Coming in -- preparing for the spring selling season we had more advertising activity promotions going on.
We made a conscious decision early in the season to pull back on that and to focus on our positioning in the marketplaces and our projects that are out there and let those folks sell for us as opposed to driving it through the advertisings as much.
That made a big impact for us.
My second question is one of your competitors said that all the easy pickings are gone from distressed lot deals and that they're having a hard time finding some.
Can you guys comment on what you guys are seeing and finding? Of the amount of money that you spent on land this quarter how much of that is going into new land deals and how much of that are you guys having to start to develop your own land again? Well to answer your question on all the distressed deals or most of the distressed deals are gone by reminding people that in the late 1980s when we first expanded out to Phoenix the Phoenix developers didn't know what a Texas rolling option contract was and we introduced that to them.
I don't believe the distressed lot deals are -- certainly they're decreasing but there's still a number of them out there that are affording us the opportunity to take a look at our owned finished lots and our auctioned finished lots.
We're still sitting on over 2.5-year inventory based upon our trailing 12 months sales of lots.
So we feel like we're still in a good position.
We also have a number of deals that continue to come through our corporate office from the region on new deals on a daily and a weekly basis.
So I don't see the lack of distressed lot deals out there.
And in terms of the breakdown of our overall spending the $210 million we invested this quarter the majority of that continues to be in finished lot purchases with very little land that needs development with the minority being in development cost.
And the breakdown in the trend in those categories really hasn't changed significantly at all over the last several quarters.
And frankly as the distressed lot deals do disappear on a go-forward basis we worked through the good 8 lots.
That would mean a good thing.
We should be able to take some of the land that we have on our books today that we're holding for development and be able to develop that raw land and the lots and move that off of our balance sheet.
So I think that's a positive because if there's a shortage of distressed lots that means that we're going to have to start developing lots.
And one of the issues today is a lot of the land that's out there is not worth much by the time you develop it.
So theoretically that would imply that there's going to be some appreciation in finished lots and/or raw land if there is a lack of distressed lots out there for sale and there's housing demand out there.
If I could squeeze one last one.
Can you talk a little bit about other than your stock price dropped relative to their trading range what is the criteria for what's going to cause you to step in and buy the stock? There's really no specific criteria Alex.
It's going to be opportunistic.
And it's not just the stock price it's also going to be the amount of cash we have versus the other opportunities that we see.
Our next question is coming from the line of Michael Smith with JMP Securities.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
I just wanted to be clear we shouldn't take the stock repurchase as an indication that you're not able to find as many land deals as you'd like correct? Absolutely correct.
And then just to expand on Alex's question a little bit.
As far as the distressed deals -- what do you guys see in the land market generally? We know that there hasn't been much development activity over the last 4 or 5 years.
Are you starting to see -- are you starting to feel a lack of deals out there distressed or not that look appealing to you? And if so can you kind of give a regional breakdown on that? And can you also give why you think that might be? Is it -- are banks holding a lot of stuff off the market hoping for better pricing and I guess developers as well? Or is it that there's just not much supply available period and that until there is more development activity you're not just going to see much more stuff come to market whatever happens with pricing? Clearly I think the banks that are being supported by all of us are still holding their land for future sale a lot of it.
And so as a result I think as the prices begin to move up they will begin to sell some of those lots.
But let's be factual about one thing.
We're in the process of culling some of our communities as I mentioned earlier in the call because we don't have enough absorptions per community.
So as a result to the extent that the demand picks up then those communities we would not be culling.
So right now we're culling communities because the demand is not there on a net sale per month basis.
So I still say to you there are plenty of distressed deals out there.
And the deals we're culling we wish we weren't culling but we don't have the demand that we thought we were going to have.
So there are many opportunities out there yet to be taken advantage of if the demand will recover slightly.
As far as availability of good land deals that you guys are seeing out there whether they be distressed or not can you give sort of a regional breakdown or a metro breakdown? Are there any that are particularly better or worse than others as far as availability? I'm not going -- try not to mis-answer your question or not answer your question.
But again these land deals and these markets I will say one more time it's hard like herding cats.
It's hard to differentiate between one that's significantly better than the other.
We see good deals in Florida and we see good deals in Las Vegas.
We see good deals in Texas and we see good deals in New Jersey.
So It's just a function of how well a job we're doing out there on a land acquisition basis and a due diligence basis in each one of our markets.
And to the extent that we continue to do a good job in that aspect of our business we're going to find the deals out there to support our business.
But again one of the most beautiful things that could happen to us is that the demand picks up the finished lot inventory declines and then all of a sudden we have to start developing lots.
That would be a wonderful thing for our business because that would mean that there's meaningful profitable demand out there.
[Operator Instructions]  Our next question will be coming from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Just a quick question on your customer mix.
I think there was a concern for you specifically this year as we're lapping out that tax credit that you could lag a little because first-time buyers are going to exit the market and yet you managed to have basically flat orders year-over-year.
So could you talk a little bit about your mix? Did you proactively change any of your sort of product lines as we moved into this year? Or are you seeing kind of -- you're just seeing that the move-up buyer naturally come back to the market? What have you kind of seen happen and what have you done to offset the impact of the tax credit from last year? I can say that clearly as we said last quarter we've dominated nationally the first-time home buyer market.
And a couple of quarters ago Don Horton was in one of our communities and noticed that some of our competitors were at a higher price point than we.
And he asked the division president why aren't we competing with that particular builder.
Clearly the division president had a good answer when he said "Well we will be." And so as a result there are move-up markets and move-up products that we have expanded into across the country.
And I think that's one of the things that's helped our sales and our profitability over the last quarter.
It has still not become a significant portion of our business but we're going to continue to pursue it because clearly there's no reason for someone like D.
R.
Horton to let any small medium-sized private builder have a niche in the marketplace that we can do better in than they.
And that's what we're focused on and we think we can continue to expand that portion of the business.
And quite frankly if you look back during the peak in the home building business between 2000 and 2006 we had a lot of move-up business in our portfolio.
So all we're doing is going back and doing what we already have executed on before very effectively but the niche just didn't exist in our mind.
And I'm not sure how big the niche is but it's certainly worth exploiting and taking away from those small medium-sized and undercapitalized builders.
You've talked a couple of times about increasing your market share in each of the regions.
Are you still happy? It sounds like with the opportunities for small lot purchases are any acquisitions looking more attractive these days of small private builders to increase that a little bit more aggressively? We still see good opportunities in our core markets.
We have been very active in acquisitions in our formative years really from 1992 until 2002.
And our last large acquisition was in 2002.
There will be opportunities I think on the acquisition side.
But right now we do continue to find just the single-lot deals.
And so then rather than taking all of someone's operations which is going to include some land that you don't want we're continuing just to select the individual deals right now.
But we don't want to take anything off the table going forward.
The other thing on acquisitions is we certainly don't want to add to our SG&amp;A by doing an acquisition we would.
Most importantly we don't want to take the land they have and put it on our books because even though we do due diligence on it we have enough land on our books to work our way through.
So unless they have some really great lot option positions with low earnest money it would not be accretive to us.
I don't believe to even pursue that sort of thing when we have the opportunity to find those land and option deals without taking on the overhead associated with the transaction or the risk.
Our next question is from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
I just wanted to think about or hear what your thoughts are in terms of goals you're looking for in this environment where the orders are stable clearly at very low levels.
But if we go back to days long ago that we always will return you had goals in terms of the volumes and such then more recently in terms of getting back to profitability.
Now that you have that what are you thinking about in terms of just what you're reaching for in terms of 2012 '13 in terms of the key goals? Clearly on '12 and '13 we're focused on increasing our profitability and growing the company in' 12 and '13.
My own personal goal is to be here when we get back to 2006 when we closed 53 000 units.
And I know Stacey is laughing and everyone else is laughing but I'm staying here with Don Horton until we can get back to closing over 56 000 units.
I know that's a big number but I think as we continue to aggregate our market share and I think we're somewhere close to 7% on a national basis of all the closings last year a little less than 7%.
Our goal would be to try to get to 10% of all the closings in the U.S.
And as we continue to aggregate market share this company is focused on one thing.
We'll make it up everyday and I say shower shave and put our makeup on and that is how do we have consistent increasing profitability.
Our next question is from Stephen East of Ticonderoga Securities.
You talked about your gross margin and your product mix et cetera.
Are you having any material headwinds? The pricing on the material is that an issue for you that you have to overcome? Or have you been able to offset what gives and takes there? The latter.
Certainly we're getting pushed just like we're pushing to make profit.
We have vendors and suppliers who are pushing to get back to profitability or higher levels of profitability.
SO our national sales manager and each one of our regional -- excuse me our national purchasing manager Brad Conlon and each one of our regional purchasing managers as well as the division purchasing managers out there are working on a daily basis to keep those increases at a minimum level because our goal is to continue to improve our profitability.
Okay.
And then the only other issues that I got.
On your product mix your move-up do you get better gross margins on that or is it just better gross margin dollars? And then on your land deals if you look at the last couple of years where you primarily invested where would that be? And where do you think over the next couple of years? And are there any markets you want to enter or exit if you will? And obviously I know you're not going to give specific markets but do you see any of that? Well on the gross margin let's be clear about one thing.
When we underwrite a deal we demand whether it be an entry level or whether it be a move-up house.
We're still shooting for a 20% gross margin.
We're still falling short of that but that's our goal.
So we don't change the underwriting guideline on the gross margin percentage.
Obviously on the higher sales price on a move-up priced home we're generating more gross dollars to the gross margin line by virtue of a higher average sales price like I said.
And as I look at the country clearly as you look at places that are friendly to business and it's not because we're here but it's a fact that it is a fact.
And that is Texas has a great climate for businesses here.
And Texas continues to have positive job growth despite everything that's going on in the U.S.
Clearly we're a strong force in each one of our Texas markets.
We're an example in Dallas.
We're 3x or 4x larger than the second largest builder in the Dallas market.
Same in Austin San Antonio and Houston where we're the largest builder in those markets not 3x the number 2 builder but nevertheless those are strong markets for us.
And we're going to continue to grow those markets simply because of the fact that businesses are moving into Texas and that's going to provide opportunity for us.
I currently look at the state of Florida.
And irrespective of what's happened over the last 4 or 5 years and the last 2 harsh winters that happened in the northeast I believe as people reach retirement age they're either moving as they call them halfbacks where they've moved to Florida and move halfway back to the Carolinas.
I look at the Carolinas as a good potential market for us in the future.
And I look at Florida and the Atlanta area as well as the coastal part of Florida.
So those are the places where I say are good potential markets for us on a go-forward basis and where we're looking to do new land deals in every market that makes sense to us economically and profitability wise.
But those are markets that are on the top of my head that I think are as we look forward those are going to be growth areas for us.
Our next question is from Jay McCanless from Guggenheim Partners.
LLC</strong> First question housekeeping.
What was the DTA quarter end? $849 million and that was fully reserved.
LLC</strong> Next question.
On the sequential decrease in the watch list is that a function of the market situation improving in term of price or is that a function of just the mix of what's in the watch list and rolling to some of those older neighborhoods? It's probably a little bit of everything.
Part of it is some of the communities that we took impairments on this quarter were probably on the watch list in the prior quarter.
So once they've been impaired and written to their fair value they're no longer on the watch list.
Secondly we've had some communities where we've seen some profit performance improvement.
That could be from our execution or from the market itself getting better but they may have come off the watch list.
And others would have been just completed out some of those communities as well.
So it's a few factors all in.
The biggest single piece would have been some of those communities that we impaired that came off.
LLC</strong> And then final question.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on what effect if the loan limits are not increased with the bills or maintained the bills that are pending in Congress what effect is that going to have on D.R.
Horton's business? And how are you looking at fiscal '12 if those loan limits actually go back down? We've looked at that by market where we closed homes that would be subject to that.
And that was a very small number of closings in the first 6 months of the fiscal year.
So we're not expecting a significant impact on some of those loan limit changes.
Our final question today is coming from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.</strong> Buyback.
How aggressive would you have to get before you get back to the DTA or do you buy back as much shares that you wanted? The measurement on the DTA is generally over a three-year rolling period.
So there’s going to be a different answer at each quarter end in terms of what would you buy back.
We'd essentially have to have a 50% change in our ownership.
So if you're under just the 50% without looking at underlying other changes in our ownership there's a lot of room.
I wouldn't set your expectations that high though.
Inc.</strong> And then what percentage of your own lots are finished actually? It's about 25% a little bit less are finished of what we own right now.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Thank you.
Once again I'd like to express my appreciation to all of our D.R.
Horton teammates for an exceptional quarter in this difficult economic environment both nationally and as well as in the housing industry.
Our focus clearly is to increase our absorptions per community on a go-forward basis and to focus on what I've referred to over the years as BSCM: build sell close homes and make money.
And when we get up everyday that's our focus.
Thank you very much and we look forward to a profitable fiscal year '11.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Don Tomnitz President and CEO.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Vice President and Controller.
As usual before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? For the past several years we have been focused on the basics of the Homebuilding business with the singular goal of returning to profitability.
We supplemented our existing land positions with newer finished lot positions which enhanced our gross margin.
We limited our investment in land and lot inventory which benefited operational cash flow.
We adjusted our overhead structure which reduced our SG&amp;A expenses and we reduced our outstanding debt significantly which improved our balance sheet leverage and resulted in less interest expense.
In fiscal 2011 we realized the benefits of these strategies and have achieved operational profitability this time without a tax credit.
We closed 16 695 homes 8 fewer than 2 years ago in fiscal 2009.
However our bottom line results were greatly improved versus fiscal 2009 as our pretax income increased $569 million.
$362 million of the increase was due to reductions in inventory impairment and land option cost write-offs and $35 million was due to reductions in mortgage recourse and reinsurance expenses in fiscal 2011 compared to 2009.
The remaining pretax income increase of $172 million reflects true operational improvement on essentially flat volume a combination of reduced SG&amp;A improved gross margins and less interest expense.
We'd like to thank all of the D.R.
Horton team members for helping us achieve profitability in fiscal year 2011 and most importantly we look forward to another year of profitability in fiscal year 2012.
Bill? Our Homebuilding operations generated pretax income of $27.4 million for the quarter which included $12.8 million of inventory impairment and lot option charges.
Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $6.4 million which included $3.9 million of recourse expense.
Our net income for the quarter was $35.7 million or $0.11 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $8.9 million or $0.03 per diluted share in the prior year quarter.
For the fiscal year our net income was $71.8 million or $0.23 per diluted share.
Mike? Fourth quarter home sales revenues increased 17% to $1.1 billion on 4 987 homes closed from $921.1 million on 4 281 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was flat compared to the prior year and up 1% sequentially to $215 300.
Our home sales revenues for the fiscal year were $3.5 billion on 16 695 homes closed down from $4.3 billion on 20 875 homes closed in fiscal 2010.
Our average closing price for the year was up 3% from the prior year to $212 200.
Don? Net sales orders for the fourth quarter were up 7% from last year to 4 241 homes on a 2% increase in active selling communities.
In the September quarter our average sales price on net sales orders was up 6% compared to the prior-year quarter and flat sequentially at $218 700.
Our cancellation rate for the fourth quarter was 29%.
Net sales orders for fiscal 2011 were 17 421 homes and our average sales price was up 3% from last year to $214 000.
Our cancellation rate for the fiscal year was 27%.
Our sales backlog at September 30 2011 increased 18% from the prior year to 4 854 homes or $1 billion a great start to achieving our goal of profitability in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
Stacey? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the fourth quarter was 16.1% down 90 basis points from the year-ago period due to increased incentives and discounts and warranty costs partially offset by a decrease in amortized interest.
Sequentially incentives and discounts were flat; however our gross margin declined 40 basis points due to increased warranty costs partially offset by a decrease in amortized interest.
Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue for fiscal 2011 was 16.1% down 120 basis points from fiscal 2010 primarily due to increased incentives and discounts but our gross margin on home sales revenue has improved 300 basis points from fiscal 2009.
Mike? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter which includes corporate overhead was $124.2 million or 11.6% of Homebuilding revenues compared to 13.2% from the year-ago quarter.
For the fiscal year Homebuilding SG&amp;A totaled $480 million down $43 million compared to fiscal 2010.
As a percentage of Homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A increased to 13.5% in fiscal 2011 compared to 12.1% in fiscal 2010 but improved 100 basis points compared to 14.5% in fiscal 2009.
Bill? We are now seeing the benefits of our aggressive debt reduction over the past several years as Homebuilding interest expense was down 44% from the year-ago quarter to $9.5 million and our fourth quarter Homebuilding interest incurred decreased 18% to $29.7 million.
For the fiscal year Homebuilding interest expense directly and amortized to cost of sales decreased 32% to $141.3 million from $208.4 million in fiscal 2010 and it has decreased 37% from fiscal 2009.
Fiscal 2011 Homebuilding interest incurred dropped 25% to $130.2 million compared to the prior year.
Stacey? Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $6.4 million compared to $4.8 million in the year-ago quarter.
86% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our Homebuilding operations.
Our mortgage company handled the financing for 61% of our home buyers this quarter with virtually all loans meeting eligibility requirements for sales to Fannie Mae Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.
Government loans accounted for 60% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter and our mortgage company's borrowers during the quarter had an average FICO score of 702 and an average loan-to-value of 92%.
Financial services pretax income for the year was $19.1 million compared to $21.4 million in the prior year.
Don? Our total inventory decreased by approximately $39 million during the quarter.
We reduced our homes in inventory by $57 million and increased our investment in residential land and lots and land held for development by $18 million.
Our homes in inventory at the end of September totaled 10 500 down 900 homes from June.
As of September 30 1 100 of our homes were models 5 600 were speculative homes and 2 800 of the specs were completed.
We continue to manage our total homes in inventory relative to our expectations of sales demand and we offer spec homes primarily to accommodate our first-time buyers relocation buyers and the real estate agent community.
Mike? In our fourth fiscal quarter our investments in land lots and development costs totaled $209 million primarily in finished lots bringing our total spend for fiscal 2011 to $790 million.
Future investments in finished lots will remain largely dependent on our sales base and we expect our spending on land and development costs will continue to be at relatively low levels.
We are focused on managing our supply of owned finished lots in line with our sales demand in a low-risk capital-efficient manner.
At September 30 2011 we owned approximately 86 000 lots of which 22 500 are finished.
We controlled an additional 27 000 lots through option contracts with a net earnest made deposit balance for these lots of $14.6 million.
Bill? In our fourth quarter impairment analysis we determined that projects with a pre-impairment carrying value of $37.1 million were impaired which resulted in $10.2 million of impairment charges the majority of which were in Georgia and Arizona.
We refer to projects which we deem to have the highest risk for future impairments as our watch list.
Our watch list now totals $354 million down from $377 million at June 30 2011 with the largest concentrations in California Illinois and Arizona.
Our inventory impairment process in future quarters will incorporate any changes in market conditions and any adjustments we make in our business.
Stacey? Cash flow from operations for the September quarter totaled $90.2 million primarily due to the decrease in homes in inventory.
Our fiscal 2011 cash flow from operations totaled $14.9 million.
We ended the year with $1 billion of Homebuilding unrestricted cash and marketable securities even after reducing debt by $1.5 billion over the past 2 years.
During the quarter we paid at maturity the remaining $106 million of our 7 7/8% notes and repurchased a total of $77.1 million of various issues of our outstanding senior notes.
Our remaining debt repurchase authorization at September 30 2011 was $422.9 million.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at September 30 was $1.6 billion with no maturities until May of 2013.
Bill? At September 30 our Homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash and marketable securities was 18% an increase of 190 basis points from a year ago.
However gross Homebuilding leverage at September 30 improved 660 basis points to 37.7% from a year ago due primarily to significant debt reductions.
Don? Our financial performance this year demonstrates the progress our company has made toward achieving consistent profitability balance sheet strength and market share gains.
Even though market conditions remain challenging our goal in fiscal 2012 is to be profitable every quarter and for the full fiscal year.
Our September backlog is 18% higher than it was a year ago which positions us for a strong start to fiscal 2012.
Our sales in October and November to date have been in line with our expectations and we look forward to another year of normal seasonality in fiscal 2012.
We will continue to provide new homes for both first-time and move-up buyers; control our construction costs SG&amp;A and inventory levels; and maintain our strong balance sheet and liquidity.
Again we want to thank all of our DHI team members for their hard work this past year.
We are very proud of the results you continue to produce.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll host any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Stephen East of Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> Due to -- if you look at what was going on with your gross margin I understand that it was warranty.
But if you look at your spec did you have some spec impact on that gross margin decline also? And how should we think about the impact in 2012 on your gross margin with the specs? I think really if you look at our gross margins obviously in 2010 there was an investor tax credit or a tax credit -- federal tax credit which amounted to about $8 000 Steve.
And if you look at what we did in the first part of fiscal year 2011 we are trying to maintain a similar volume in '11 that we experienced in '10 and one of the ways that we are doing that was through incentives and discounts.
And in essence we're trying to be the Federal Government so to speak to our buyers and we're trying to equate that $8 000 to a certain extent to attract people in our doors because there's really no reason post the tax credit for very many people to be coming into our models and we're seeing reduced traffic load.
So I would say to you on a go-forward basis we're back to the government is not involved with the tax credits any longer.
We anticipate improving gross margins in fiscal year '12 over fiscal year '11.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then if you look at your 2012 op margin you touched on some of that.
I am assuming you're expecting that to go up.
If you sort of rank order between volume price gross margin SG&amp;A how would you rank order the improvement drivers you would see in the op margin? Well I'd say all of the above.
We're -- and I don't mean to be a wise guy which I have tendency to be from time to time.
But we're focusing on all aspects of the business and clearly we focused on our SG&amp;A at this company as one of our strong suits.
But in terms of our gross margins one of the other things that we're doing is -- if you noticed our community count was only up about 2%.
We're in the process of culling underperforming subdivisions especially in our operationally East region.
And so as a result we would anticipate that our gross margins will be going up simply because of the fact that we're culling underperforming subdivisions as well as we continue to drive down our cost and work with our vendors as well as our subcontractors.
I know that they're trying to push cost increases.
We at the same time are pushing back simply because of the fact that the business is not where it needs to be.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
You mentioned October November as expected.
What were your expectations? Well we can't share our sales budgets with you.
We do expect to sell more units and close more units in fiscal year '12 than what we did in '11 so we're selling at a pace in the first 2 months that will help us achieve those higher sales and closing targets for fiscal year '12.
Our next question is coming from Stephen Kim of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> First question I had for you relates to the conforming loan limits.
Was curious if you could remind us what you think the impact would be if those limits were to come back up and why.
Well for us Stephen with the price point that we are focused on we've seen very little impact from the loan limits lowering.
I don't believe it would have a significant impact for us if the loan limits go back up.
I would just also add is that Ken Gear -- we are participating with the Leading Builders of America this year and their indication is that what they see in Washington right now most likely is going to affect second time -- or second homes more than anything and we don't have a lot of second-time buyers -- or second home buyers.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
Not yet at least.
Is there -- that comment you just made there is there any reason to think -- should we read anything into your involvement in that this year versus prior years? We're just trying to be a part of the industry and be a team player.
Research Division</strong> Is that a change that you've made? I mean in the past I can't recall were you not part of that consortium? We've been a part of it.
We're a bigger participant this year than we've been in the past years.
Research Division</strong> My next question's related to incentives again.
Can you give us a sense for how you modulate incentives? Is there sort of a company-wide approach or rubric by which you modulate incentives? Or is that something to which significant leeway is given to divisional managers? I don't want to seem too unsophisticated here because that seems to be a sophisticated question but I would say to you that we drive -- we ask our division presidents to hit their sales and closing targets and they control their level of incentives at the local level all the while trying to hit their bonus points and their bonus plan which is to achieve for the large part 20% gross margins and 10% SG&amp;A.
And clearly we're not hitting those targets yet but that's what they're getting paid to hit.
So they're trying to balance their incentives and their discounts in the marketplace hit their sales goals and closings goals and also get their bonus points on balance.
Our next question is coming from Ken Zener of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the 2% subdivision growth year-over-year.
I assume -- are you willing to give us a community count yet? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So with that in mind you talked about culling.
I mean if you're taking down your subdivisions does that mean you kind of expect a flat community count underlying your outlook right now and it's simply that you're going to have better absorption within those communities? Is that kind of how you're thinking about it? I don't think we're looking for flat.
It could be flat.
Our division presidents and our land acquisition people out there trying to tie up and get under contract every deal that makes sense.
We process a lot of deals through here every day but the key is the ones we're culling before we cull them we're going back to the seller and asking for a lower price that makes our gross margins work.
And if we're not getting those then we're going to cull them.
So as a result I don't think we'll be down but I don't think we'll be up dramatically.
I was just going to say for reference this quarter Ken we were down 4% sequentially but you still saw our sales increase.
So we're trying to make sure that we keep the most productive of the communities even as we're choosing to let a few go.
The key to making money in this business is to get as high of absorptions per community as we possibly can.
Research Division</strong> Right and I think it's very interesting because it seems to me that you're culling communities that are largely option-based versus ones where you own the community outright.
That would be the assumption correct? It's hard to cull them when you own them.
We've got to work through them.
Research Division</strong> That was my logic.
You're right.
You're exactly right.
We have some that we own we'd like to cull but we haven't figured out how to cull them yet.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And given that you've been very effectively blending in new lots to improve your margins with 22 000 finished today of your 86 000 owned I assume roughly 1/3 of your communities are still mothballed.
Could you kind of walk us through the longer-term implications of the flexibility we're seeing right now relative to your closings as contrasted to the land -- legacy land which you can't cull and obviously is not at a rate that you want to sell out today? Could you kind of walk us through maybe how that will play out as you work into your legacy land? Ironically that question was asked during our director's meeting over the last couple days and we do have land that we have that is mothballed so to speak that we believe are well-positioned pieces of property.
But clearly to make those deals work and to bring them out of mothball we have to have some appreciation in housing prices and also some appreciation in lot prices that are available on the market today.
So as a result I'd say over the next 3 to 5 years we'll begin to work that down.
But I clearly expect at the end of 5 years that we could still have half as much of that land still mothballed because land prices still have to escalate some for us to bring those projects into production.
Our next question is coming from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask my first question about your debt repurchases.
You folks have done a nice job of bringing your debt balances down balancing that against the need to maintain your cash balances.
So I wanted to think about going forward into the next year.
What's the -- how much further will we go? Obviously your cash balance I think has come down to $720 million unrestricted plus the restricted amount.
The $400 million I think $25 million or so you mentioned on the debt repurchase authorization you have.
So what's the kind of constraints the goal? I mean what's the plan going forward here? Nishu in terms of our cash balance what we look at is our cash and our marketable securities and those 2 items combined are both unrestricted.
So we're right at a $1 billion there.
Our target cash and marketable securities balance at year end is $1 billion so we are basically sitting at our target level.
With that and with where our balance sheet is today we would expect our debt repurchases to decline at a pace versus what we saw this past year.
Our balance sheet is in good shape.
To the extent that we generate additional cash flow that's in excess of what we need to run the business we could certainly devote some more of that to debt repurchases but we do expect the pace of debt repurchases to slow.
Research Division</strong> And second question on the deferred tax asset.
So you've got 2 profitable years under your belts here and you've got another profitable year forecasted.
So I know these standards aren't hard and set but by the kind of 3-year rule you seem to be all set.
So when would that come back on balance sheet? We're certainly heading in the right direction and we continue to evaluate it.
And we do get to take into account some level of projections but the standard that we're applying is very clear in saying that anytime you have a cumulative pretax loss in recent years which we are using the 3-year average that is significant negative evidence that until you get past actually having that cumulative loss for a 3-year period it's very difficult to relieve the valuation allowance.
So just to give you a little bit of sense where we are our current cumulative 3-year pretax loss is $446 million.
And that's largely the result of losses that we incurred in fiscal 2009 so as we look forward we would expect that by the end of fiscal 2012 -- we would expect and hope that we would be out of the cumulative loss position by the end of 2012.
And then at that point depending on how things look what positive evidence we had we could see that reverse.
But just very directly we do not expect the reversal to occur before the end of 2012 and then it could be a bit longer depending on conditions and what positive evidence we have at that point.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So the 3-year window that you folks are using is a very conservative historic-looking window? It's consistent with the standard and it's consistent with the guidance that we're hearing from our public accounting firm.
Our next question is coming from Adam Rudiger of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm most curious if -- with your feedback from your local sales managers if you look at the buyers if there's any kind of pattern emerging or if you could kind of categorize where the bulk of your buyers are coming from.
I'm just curious if it's first-time buyers that are seeing rents rising and they want to move out because of that.
Or is it family issues and they're just outgrowing their previous residence? So I'm just wondering what kind of trends that you can categorize and what they were.
Probably all those college graduates who have moved home with their parents and their parents are trying to get them out of the house again.
Well frankly if you will recall that we mentioned that we're focusing more on the move-up buyer and the move-up buyer is becoming an increasing part of our business as you can see we now have -- 53% of our buyers are first-time buyers and that's down from 58% in 2010.
So we clearly have bought -- we clearly have built in both those segments -- during the 2000 to 2007 time frame we were probably focused more 40% on the first-time buyer and the rest on the move-up buyer.
So our plan that we implemented several quarters ago to focus more on that second-time buyer is being seen both in the percentages I just shared with you as well as our ASP moving up as it has.
I think the interesting point though Adam because that's one of the things I know our sales people emphasize with people coming in the door.
It's a very favorable time to lock in your monthly payment on your house whereas rents can rise as the market recovers and that's definitely something that we point out to our buyers.
And as we shared with our board yesterday clearly the buyers are coming in and they're still looking for value.
They're buying slightly larger properties [ph] but they're still looking for good value.
LLC Research Division</strong> And my second was just on those communities that you said in the East that you were trying to cull.
Is there a common theme whether it be location or down to the metro level or product type or when you bought the land or optioned the land -- is there any common theme to the ones that are underperforming? Well I'd say a number of those are more in the Carolinas and we entered into some deals in the Carolinas early on that we thought were well-priced lots and as the demand in those markets has declined some those lot prices weren't attractive were not as attractive as we thought.
But most of those are primarily in the Carolina areas some in the Georgia area but that's the primary location.
Our next question is coming from Dan Oppenheim of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering firstly in terms of capital you talked about the debt repurchases as being a real benefit.
Some of your peers have also looked at some of the stock repurchases as of late.
Have you considered that at all? What are your thoughts there? Well the first thing that we look at is our cash balances and our liquidity and making sure we have sufficient cash for our operations and then cushion given that we do not have a bank facility.
So we certainly do take a look at potential for stock purchases but it's not as high a priority today.
We want to make sure that we are in good position to reinvest in our operations when we start seeing more favorable conditions out there.
So stock is not necessarily a high priority.
Research Division</strong> And then second question relates to some of the mothballed communities and such talk that many could be mothballed still years from now.
There's not fully marked and how that you're fully evaluating those right now? Is it the cash you'd still need to put into those products to bring those to market? Or is it just the way the land is marked at this point? Adam a lot of those communities are those that would have a substantial development expenditure associated with them and they may be fairly well-located but not yet in the development corridor where those lots will be needed in the marketplace.
And it just doesn't justify the substantial amount of development spend we'd have to put out there relative to other opportunities for that capital in the market of buying finished lots or more nearly completed parcels of land that are closer to being finished lots.
One of the things we continue to focus on as we approve deals on a day-to-day basis on an individual deal-by-deal basis is how quickly can get a return on our cash? And as Mike indicated the development deals obviously it's hard to get your cash back in 1 year from the date that you pull those out of mothball and start a development on them.
Typically that's a 2-year return on cash.
Our next question is coming from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on SG&amp;A came in a little bit higher than we had expected.
I mean if you look sequentially revenues were up $100 million and our SG&amp;A was up about $10 million so I was wondering if there was any year-end stuff in there.
And in terms of the variable element of SG&amp;A any guidance going forward relative to a change in revenue would be helpful.
We've looked at our SG&amp;A nine ways to Sunday because as we always say that's the first line item Don Horton looks at when he picks up his financials.
So when we look at it sequentially there were really 2 main factors that caused the sequential increase.
And the first is many of our comp plans are tied to profitability.
We had much stronger profitability in the fourth quarter than we did in the third quarter or in the prior parts of the year and so our incentive comp was higher in the fourth quarter.
The other thing that was higher for us was some seasonality in our maintenance cost and utilities.
We had a very very hot summer across many of our markets and we did see an increase in our utility costs.
As we look at the trend in our SG&amp;A though in the first half of the year -- the second half of the year compared to the first half of the year our SG&amp;A was actually down 2% but our closings were up 34%.
So we have taken a lot of measures in the second half of the year compared to what we ran in the first half and in this fourth quarter our SG&amp;A was up 2% year-over-year on a 17% increase in revenues.
So again as we look at our quarter SG&amp;A extracting the variable piece we think we're in a lot better position this year going into our first quarter than we were last year.
Research Division</strong> And before I hit on the second question can you -- again the variable piece on that is that a 4% to 5% number? Or how should we think about that? That's probably within the range or maybe 3% to 5% just kind of depending on the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Second question I was just hoping to get -- you kind of hit on Carolinas and Georgia.
I was hoping to maybe just get a kind of a regional overview of which areas you felt have done maybe a little better than expectations or on the stronger end of the spectrum.
Obviously everything on a relative basis but -- and conversely which regions are still a little bit more challenged or higher incentives et cetera? Well I'd say to give you a little bit of clarity on it Florida to us is doing very well relative to what everyone else is doing and people's expectations down there.
If you take a look at what we're doing in the Pensacola Mobile Alabama area which is our northern Florida market as well as in Southeast Southwest Florida the Miami Fort Myers Naples and Tampa market we're doing well in those markets.
Orlando is getting stronger for us and Jacksonville should get stronger for us.
The market that I'm most excited about in terms of improvement across the U.S.
right now is certainly in Florida.
We have a lot of anticipation for fiscal year '12 in the Carolinas especially in the Myrtle Beach Hilton Head Charleston area.
Atlanta continues to do well for us.
The state of Texas is still a major producer for us producing a lot of our pretax income.
Texas has been weaker for us this year than it was last year largely a function as the fact that in 2010 when we had a tax credit we really loaded up on specs because we thought we could sell a lot of specs in Texas due to the tax credit.
And we sold and closed a lot of specs in 2010 in Texas.
So they have had year-over-year difficult comps in Texas.
Even though they're down they're still doing very very well from a profitability perspective.
I look at Las Vegas and what's cost down [ph] was done for us in Las Vegas and even though we're earning back mostly largely our impairment dollars out there I don't think anyone in Las Vegas is doing the kind of job that we're doing in Las Vegas today.
California is still weak for us but it's getting better.
But it's just -- it's a slow market with a tough budget and a tough deficit with the state.
And I think California will continue to be a weak market for us in the years ahead just because of what exists out there.
And I'd be really remiss if I didn't mention Matt Farris in the Pacific Northwest in Seattle our top PTI performer in the company this year and doing a great job for us in Seattle.
So that's pretty much our markets.
Research Division</strong> One last one if I could skip it in.
Warranty costs do you think those should level out in '12 given that it was a little bit up sequentially 4Q? Warranty is something that's very difficult to predict and there always is a bit of volatility in there in terms of dealing with the tail of homes that we've delivered over the past 7 to 10 years relative to our low level of revenues today.
And that's where you see a little bit of volatility in our margin there.
Certainly it's something we pay a lot of attention to and we're focused on operationally in dealing with that and taking care of our customers.
I can't necessarily give you any guidance on where we expect it to go but we certainly feel like we're reserved very well and we've got a handle on any warranty issues that we may be dealing with in our operations today.
I guess the last color on markets I don't want to leave him out because Terry Stanley in central Texas is doing a great job for us and producing very good returns for us in central Texas.
Our next question is coming from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question I want to follow-up on the comments.
Bill I know you mentioned before about having $1 billion in cash and targeting $1 billion of cash and marketable securities in a year.
I think that's great to have such good liquidity but I'm wondering how do you get to the $1 billion target? How do you work towards that number? What makes that the right amount of cash for your balance sheet? Well first thing we look at is what our working capital needs on a seasonal basis.
We will add homes to inventory during our second and third quarters of the fiscal year and our expectations for that need is $200 million to $300 million.
So that's $200 million to $300 million of our need and then past that typically we would -- in our capital structure we would have a bank facility in place that would perhaps be in the range of $500 million which would allow us some flexibility in terms of efficiency with our cash.
We don't have that facility today and so essentially we're keeping some cash as cushion in replacement for what we would normally have available in a bank facility.
And what that cushion provides us with is it provides us with opportunity capital to the extent that we see good opportunities in the businesses or we see improvements and want to make further investments in our business.
But it also provides us cushion against the downside.
If there were a major shock to the system which we've certainly seen several of those over the past few years that might cause disruption in the capital markets.
And it might keep us from being able to access the capital markets or if it shocked consumer confidence in our potential homebuyers and if we saw a drop in sales or an increase in our cancellation rates that cash cushion provides us with insurance to be able to continue to operate without losing any sleep over our liquidity.
And we want to sleep well at night I assure you.
Research Division</strong> So just to make sure I understand the cushion should be above what the normal bank facility would be just in case there's a shock in the system.
Is that repeating that correctly? That's fair.
We do still -- we're very realistic.
And I would say we're still a bit cautious about the overall environment.
It is still a challenging homebuilding environment out there today and we feel like it's prudent to keep some level of cushion in this environment.
I'd say the flip side of that is we're also optimistic and we want to make sure that we have the capital to invest when we're ready to do that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My follow-up question was just on the mortgage market.
I'm wondering if you guys are seeing any changes in underwriting standard if you saw anything during the quarter any tightening any loosening especially relative to FHA loans and the way those are being underwritten by FHA-approved lenders.
We're not seeing anything substantial in terms of changes in underwriting or loan availability really over the last 6 to 9 months.
It continues to be a challenge and people still have to have good credit and have cash for the down payment but we're really not hearing about incremental tightening right now.
David by the way before you get off I want to say we've known one another for a long number of years and we've talked to you a lot about D.R.
Horton.
And I've been disappointed over the years and the fact that I can't get through to you but somebody must have gotten through to you because I appreciate you being one of our -- that you have us as one of our top picks.
So I don't know whether that's you Stacey or Justin [ph] or Bill but it certainly wasn't me.
Our next question is coming from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Steven Bachman in for Bob.
Given your read-through in October and November do you have any view on the pace of incentives in the next quarter? Or you said it was flat sequentially and you mentioned it was going to start decelerating.
I was wondering if you had any read-through for 1Q.
It'd be hard to say we had a whole lot of read-through on the quarter yet considering we're not quite halfway there especially in terms of closings and seeing the incentive margins coming in but we're looking for it to be essentially flat with where we've been.
We've seen some stability the past few quarters at the incentive level and we're kind of hopeful and optimistic that's going to continue.
LLC Research Division</strong> In terms of -- you mentioned the mix shift towards the move-up buyer from the first time buyer and its impact on pricing.
Do you expect pricing to be up year-over-year in fiscal '12? I do believe that our average sales price should increase slightly in '12 over '11 just based upon where our product offerings are today and where we're positioned today.
LLC Research Division</strong> And one last one.
Cancellation rate was 29% which was the highest of the year.
Was that a seasonal trend? Or is there another pattern emerging that you guys have noticed? I think that really what you're seeing there is the impact of some of the market disruptions and the impact on consumer confidence.
It's primarily in August where you first really started seeing the significant market fluctuation.
There's generally not a significant seasonality in our cancellation rate.
Everyone saw that disruption for a few weeks and then it basically would come back to more expected levels on our can rates.
And another thing that drives our cancellation rate is our special sales that we'll have in divisions across the country and they generate a lot of sales and then they have a higher cancellation rate on those sales when they have a sales event.
So sometimes that also impacts our cancellation rate.
That's a fairly normal pattern.
We've seen that over the years and we kind of bake that in when we plan events.
Our next question is coming from Jay McCanless of Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question I believe you said the community count was up 2% year-over-year but your spec count was up about 8% year-over-year.
What's the current thought on specs? And are you all going to be a little more aggressive this coming year? Or maybe dial those back as you get through the year? Well we focus on specs very clearly around here all the time.
We do have 2 or 3 things that are running on specs than what I would like and I notified those 3 divisions that they needed to get their spec percentage down between now and the end of the year.
And the main goal for that is in all of our divisions to have fewer specs in our first quarter than in the second quarter because clearly at the end of the first quarter we're going to be starting quite a few spec units in order to meet the spring selling season and spring demand.
And also a bit of the increase is because we have seen a bit better sales pace and so our expectations are that we will see a bit more demand in our Q1 this year versus Q1 last year.
Just one other stat: while our overall spec number may be up the quality the mix of those specs is better now than it was a year ago.
One of the things we look at a lot are a number of completed spec homes that are older than 6 months old.
Today we have 600 of those homes.
A year ago we had 800.
So while our total number of completed specs are up our aged specs are down.
So the mix is better.
And the backlog is at 18% compared to the 8% increase in specs so we the like the mix of the inventory we have.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then my other question.
I wanted to ask the mortgage qualification question a different way.
Have you all ever disclosed what the rejection rate at DHI Mortgage is? And I don't know if you all would be willing to do that now but I think that'd be at least one barometer to say here's what's going in the mortgage market.
We have not disclosed that Jay and I certainly don't have it in front of me right now.
It's not something that we've been prepared to discuss today.
Our next question is coming from Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask again on the mortgage environment.
Have you seen any changes to the approval timeline given all the refi activity that's been going on? And secondly are any of the larger banks -- has any -- as the larger banks exit the correspondent business have you seen any change in appetite on those banks that do purchase your mortgages? I'll start on the approval timeline.
The approval process I don't think we've seen it be impacted by refi necessarily.
It has expanded in terms of timeline if you compare it to last year or the year before simply because the level of documentation that continues to be required and it's generally going to take a minimum of 30 days from someone applying for a loan until they're fully approved.
And with regard to the impact of certain large banks choosing not to be in the correspondent business we have had conversations with additional banks.
There are certainly several banks that are still interested in being the correspondent business and we expect our volume to shift to those banks.
There could be some short-term impact on the timing and what the time it is from the time we originate a loan to when we sell it if volumes are a bit greater than their infrastructure will support.
But we don't expect there to be any long-term impact there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just again on the timeline what's the timing from approval to closing? A part of that depends -- on the approval to closing a part of it depends on whether the house is complete so if someone's coming in early in the build process it could be another month to 2 months before we close.
From the point of approval though to closing it could be a very very short window maybe 3 days to a week if the house is ready to go and the buyer's ready to move.
Our next question is coming from Alex Barron of Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> Don I think you guys have done a great job over the last few years in all aspects and I guess my question to you -- as we're moving into 2012 you guys sound pretty confident that you'll see an increase in volume and I'm trying to I guess get a better feel for where that optimism is coming from.
Are you starting to see some of the people who defaulted early on in the cycle come back and start buying homes again? Well let me be clear.
We expect 2012 to be more profitable than 2011.
Our plan is that the sales and the closings could be flat but we expect them to be up.
But we believe that we can make more profit in '12 on a similar number of closings in '12 as we had in '11.
And to the extent that there is more demand out there then we would expect our sales and closings to increase.
But right now we're just planning on being more profitable on a similar number of closings and sales.
To answer your question on the other it's just a function I believe that each one of our markets our city managers and our division presidents are trying to carve out more market share in each one of our communities.
We're also clearly trying to focus on -- we are focusing on how do we achieve more absorptions per community? So to the extent that I don't see a lot in 2012 in an economic situation across the United States the bigger picture I don't see much improvement.
I don't see jobs improving significantly.
I don't see consumer confidence improving significantly so our plan has been how do we continue to get more out of what we have continue to enter into new deals as well as to take market share from other builders? LLC</strong> But I guess I'm still not clear.
I mean what's going to change? If you have a similar volume what's going to -- where is that extra profitability going to come from? Are your land costs going down your incentives going down? Like what's giving you that I guess optimism? Well the primary driver we believe is our continued work on folding in new communities that we have bought the land at today's prices -- based on today's selling prices of homes culling through underperforming communities replacing them with better communities.
So we expect that we should be able to push margins up through that process.
We're also leveraging our SG&amp;A better.
As we look at where we're starting this year compared to where we started last year we see some upside for us on SG&amp;A.
And then we've talked about our debt reduction.
We're going to have less interest flowing through our income statement probably.
If we have huge volumes we may have more capitalized interest flowing through but as a percentage of revenue that should be a declining percent.
LLC</strong> And if I could ask another one the cash flow -- I guess this was the first year where the cash flow wasn't as strong as previous years so what changed there? Because I don't really see that you guys were buying more land or something.
We're essentially replacing what we're selling right now.
Our inventory balance is essentially flat on the balance sheet this year versus last year so we're not generating cash by liquidating our balance sheet as we had in the past several years.
That's the primary difference.
Now obviously our profit isn't what it was last year so we don't have cash flow from profit at the same level as this year -- as last year either.
I think in each of '09 and '10 we had significant tax refunds as well Alex.
And we didn't have a cash tax refund this year even though we had an adjustment to our tax accrual with a tax benefit for income purposes this year.
We've been saying for quite some time our goal is to shift our cash flow generation from liquidating our balance sheet and getting tax refunds to turning to profitability and that's our goal and that's where we would expect our cash flow to come from going forward.
Our next question is coming from Jordan Hymowitz of Philadelphia Financial.
I have a question on your deferred tax asset.
One of the banks Pinnacle Bank was the first company I've seen to actually reverse a deferred tax asset this year of any of you guys that had one and that was after 5 quarters.
Is there some reason the banking space is different in reversing deferred tax asset than the homebuilding space? We ask ourselves that question.
We're marketing our assets in the market and they're not.
So I don't know where the rules go from there but -- go ahead please.
It's a subjective determination for every company is different the facts and circumstances.
You'd have to look at the nature of their deferred tax assets as well as their outlook and ability to predict earnings going forward.
In our case right now the standard would tell us that a cumulative loss in recent years and a 3-year cumulative loss position that we're in today is a significant amount of negative evidence.
That's very hard to overcome with any kind of positive evidence in our industry and our business that would allow us to reach the conclusion that we don't need a valuation allowance.
But as we move forward through '12 as that significant evidence falls away we'll be able to assess with maybe a lower burden of proof requirement than we currently have today without all the significant negative evidence the cumulative loss.
And we'll be evaluating our expectations for future profitability as well as when those deferred tax assets temporary deductible differences come back as tax deductions and against the earnings we expect to have.
A big part of the positive evidence that we will be looking for is the level of profitability that we see and the consistency of that profitability.
As you look back at our just completed fiscal year we lost money in the first 2 quarters and then we made money in the next 2 quarters.
So while we have a year of profitability it's not at a substantial level and it was not consistent.
So as we move into fiscal '12 if we can generate profitability during the slower seasons of the year at a more substantial level move into the second part of the year grow our profitability and see more substantial profitability that will be much stronger positive evidence that will support us reversing the valuation allowance that we do not have today.
Our next question is coming from Jack Micenko of SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Most have been asked and answered but I just wanted to ask an open-ended question on ASP.
Obviously land mix market conditions a lot of stuff goes into that number but as you move maybe away from the entry-level buyer to some extent how do you think about ASP trending over '12? Can you break out what your trade-up product ASP is relative to more of an entry-level product and talk maybe about how order ASP and sale ASP maybe begin to merge or maybe not? I don't know just sort of an open-ended question on pricing.
I think it's very difficult to say what our ASP is on entry-level versus move-up simply because each of those markets is so different.
There's a different cost basis both from a hard cost perspective as well as a lot cost so -- just SG&amp;A and everything else that's it's just -- it's too difficult for us to put a finger on it and say well here's what the ASP should be for entry-level and what it is for move-up.
And a move-up house in one market is not a move-up house in another market.
Clearly California -- an entry-level house in California is definitely a move-up house in Texas or Florida.
It'd be difficult for us to answer that question sir.
We have a follow-up question coming from Stephen East of Ticonderoga Securities.
Research Division</strong> You all noticed last time I didn't say anything because I didn't think it would be appropriate but talk about it [indiscernible] I won't say anything about that.
Two questions totally separate.
DT could you talk about -- when you talk about your land spend in 2012 not being significant or still curtailed is that really because of where you all want to keep your balance sheet? Or is it more a function of what you're seeing out in the market? And then the second just sort of an update on the put-back issue.
I know you all have talked about whether it makes sense to do global settlements et cetera and just sort of a little data dump on what you're seeing.
Well on land spend we're still committed to our business model of being a land-light and a lot-light company.
As mentioned earlier our return on capital when we do buy finished lots and we cash them out where we buy a piece of land and we develop it our hurdle rate right now is we want the cash back in 12 months.
And we'll do deals that are 18 to 24 months very few 24-month deals do 18-month deals but bottom line is until we get a clearer picture on where the overall economy is going we have very tight rein on our capital on our cash.
So as a result it's a business model that going forward we still are convinced that we just don't want to be in land for a period longer than 2 years so we're basically focusing on lot option deals and small development deals.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like though then you're seeing a rational market just not maybe the duration and type that you want.
Do we see a rational market? Probably not.
We see a number of deals out there that exceed our underwriting guidelines or don't comply with our underwriting guidelines.
And we tell our division presidents go back and rework the deal.
Here's the way we will approve the deal.
We miss some deals but I'll go back to the old saying that someone mentioned to me on Wall Street years ago.
And that is if -- land deals are like trains: you miss one and there's another one that's going to come along.
And that's our attitude right now.
There's no reason to load up our balance sheet on new land and lot deals with an unclear picture on where the economy and where our business is going.
We think our business is improving clearly but not to the extent that we're going to take risk that we don't see will be rewarded in the marketplace.
And then Stephen in terms of the mortgage put-back risk we have pursued global settlements with some of our investors.
We have completed a couple of global settlements over the last year.
We are still in discussions with other investors regarding global settlements with them.
Those settlements that we have reached are reflected in the reduction that we've seen in our a overall loan loss reserves over the past year or so.
Our reserve a year or so ago was around $40 million.
Today it's at $33 million.
The other factor that's reflected in that reduction in the reserve is the fact that over the course of the year we have seen the level of put-backs requests decline somewhat over the last year and so we'll continue to work with our investors continue to deal with the requests that come in.
And hopefully we can achieve some additional settlements.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The level of requests are declining.
Is the payout ratio changing? Or where are you at on that? The payout ratio is similar to where it has been in the past.
There's still a significant number of requests that are ultimately rejected because there's no proof of true underwriting issues and then the loss rate on them are pretty similar to what we've seen in the past.
Our final question is coming from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan Chase.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to hit on the mortgage put-back issue so you were able to answer a lot of those questions.
Just to clarify you said the level of put-back requests have declined somewhat versus 2010.
We've seen in a couple of other builders that the put-back requests in September kind of moved up a notch kind of a material notch.
Are you saying that's not the kind of case for yourselves? Or was your statement more just broadly fiscal '11 versus fiscal '10? No we were specifically talking to the fourth quarter and our level of requests in the fourth quarter were lower than what we've seen in either second or third quarter.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the floor over to Mr.
Don Tomnitz for any closing numerous.
Thank you.
Today is Veterans Day and as a final thought on my part let me share a favorite prayer of one of our realtors in the Dallas/Fort Worth area.
"God keep our servicemen and women safe whether they are serving at home or overseas.
Hold them in Your loving hands and protect them as they protect us.
Please keep these servicemen currently serving and those who have gone before in Your thoughts.
They are the reason for our many freedoms that we enjoy today." Thanks and good day.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States of America First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Donald Tomnitz President and CEO.
Thank you.
Mr.
Tomnitz you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Vice President and Controller.
Before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? We're off to a strong start for fiscal 2012.
We made $27.7 million in net income in our first quarter and we are focused on maintaining profitability in each upcoming quarter.
The spring selling season begins soon and our sales and operational teams across the company are energized and prepared for increasing traffic and sales activity with homes available in inventory and a good supply of finished lots to meet the potential additional demand.
If 2012 is the first year of the U.S.
housing recovery we expect it to reflect uneven improvement across our operating markets with some markets experiencing increases in demand and others remaining weak.
We remain flexible with a profitable business model at current demand levels but have the ability to increase our production in response to a stronger demand.
Although macroeconomic and housing conditions remain soft we are cautiously optimistic for the remainder of 2012 after achieving almost a $50 million improvement in pretax income compared to the year-ago quarter.
Mike? In the first quarter our homebuilding operations generated pretax income of $25 million and our financial services operations generated pretax income of $4.2 million.
Income tax expense of $1.5 million primarily represents state income taxes.
Our net income for the quarter was $27.7 million or $0.09 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $20.4 million or $0.06 per diluted share in the prior-year quarter.
Bill? Our first quarter home sales revenues increased 16% to $884 million on 4 118 homes closed from $761 million on 3 637 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was up 3% compared to the prior year and was flat sequentially at $214 700.
Don? Net sales orders for the first quarter were up 13% from last year to 3 794 homes on a 3% decrease in active-selling communities.
In the December quarter our average sales price on net sales orders of $217 000 was up 3% compared to the prior-year quarter and down 1% sequentially.
Our cancellation rate for the first quarter was 26%.
Our sales backlog at December 31 2011 increased 18% from the prior year to 4 530 homes or $975 million.
Stacey? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the first quarter was 16.8% up 120 basis points from the year-ago period.
100 basis points of the increase was due to cost improvements and decreased incentives and discounts.
60 basis points of the increase was due to a reduction in amortized interest and property taxes.
Also contributing 40 basis points to the margin increase was a reduction in the cost of remaining development obligations for completed projects and collection of old development receivables in excess of previous estimates.
Partially offsetting these increases was an 80-basis-point decrease related to costs for warranty and construction defect claims.
Sequentially while incentives and discounts were flat our gross margin improved 70 basis points again primarily due to a reduction in the cost of remaining development obligations for completed projects and collection of old development receivables in excess of previous estimates.
Bill? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter which includes corporate overhead was $119 million essentially flat with the year-ago quarter on a 13% increase in homes closed.
As a percentage of homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A was 13.4% compared to 15.5% in the year-ago quarter reflecting both the improvement in volume and our continued efforts to reduce costs.
We also continued to see the benefits of our aggressive debt reduction over the past several years as homebuilding interest expense was down 57% from the year-ago quarter to $6.9 million and our first quarter homebuilding interest incurred decreased 21% to $27.9 million.
Mike? Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $4.2 million which included $1.7 million of recourse expense.
83% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations.
Our mortgage company handled the financing for 60% of our homebuyers this quarter with virtually all loans meeting eligibility requirements for sale with Fannie Mae Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.
Government loans accounted for 57% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter down from 61% in the year-ago quarter.
Our mortgage company's new borrowers during the quarter had an average FICO score of 710 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 91%.
Stacey? This September our total inventory increased by approximately $30 million excluding non-cash items.
We increased our investment in residential land and lots by $40 million and reduced our homes in inventory by $10 million.
Our homes in inventory at the end of December totaled 10 200 homes down 300 homes from September.
As of December 31 1 100 of our homes were models 5 700 were speculative homes and 2 700 of the specs were completed.
We expect our number of homes in inventory to increase in the March and June quarters in response to seasonal demand.
Don? In our first fiscal quarter our investments in land lots and development costs totaled $229 million which reflects that we continue to find good opportunities to open new communities and replenish our finished lot supply.
Future investments in finished lots land and development will remain largely dependent on our sales base.
We remain focused on managing our supply of owned finished lots in line with our sales demand in a low-risk capital-efficient manner.
At December 31 2011 we controlled approximately 115 lots of which 86 000 are owned 29 000 are option.
Our current finished lots supply includes 22 000 owned lots and 23 000 option lots.
We also expect an additional 27 000 of our total controlled lots to be developed within the next 12 to 18 months for a finished lot pipeline of at least 72 000 lots available to us over the next 2 years.
Bill? We used $3 million of cash in operations in the December quarter primarily due to our investments in residential land and lots and a reduction of accounts payables offset by our net income and decreases in mortgage loans held for sale and homes in inventory.
We ended the quarter with $1 billion of homebuilding unrestricted cash and marketable securities.
During the quarter we repurchased $10.8 million of our 6.5% senior notes due 2016.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at December 31 was just under $1.6 billion with no maturities until May of 2013.
Mike? At December 31 our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash and marketable securities was 17.5% compared to 17% a year ago.
Gross homebuilding leverage at December 31 improved 650 basis points to 37.4% from a year ago due to debt reductions and increased equity.
Stacey? Before we move to Q&amp;A we wanted to share our expectations for some of our operating metrics.
With 4 530 homes in backlog and an expected conversion rate below 90% we expect fewer closings in Q2 than in Q1 consistent with recent years’ trends.
Seasonally Q2 and Q3 experienced the strongest sales demand which then results in our strongest deliveries in Q3 and Q4.
Our current expectation is for home sales gross margin to remain in the mid-16% range.
We anticipate a seasonal increase in SG&amp;A expense in the second quarter primarily due to payroll taxes and seasonal advertising which will result in a higher SG&amp;A percentage in Q2 versus Q1.
In Q3 and Q4 variable components will increase the absolute SG&amp;A expense amount.
However our SG&amp;A percentage should improve as we close more homes and leverage our fixed cost structure.
Don? Simply put our business feels more positive.
We're entering fiscal year '12 feeling better than we have in 6 years and it's been a long 6 years.
We've started the year with $28 million of net income and double-digit percentage increases in our sales closings and backlog in the first quarter.
January sales are also up year-over-year in line with our expectations.
Both our gross margin and SG&amp;A percentages improved versus last year and our balance sheet and liquidity remain strong.
While the housing industry and the overall economy have not gained significant traction we are increasing our market share by finding attractive opportunities across our markets that are producing improved results for D.R.
Horton.
We remain focused on achieving profitability in each quarter and for fiscal year '12.
As always we want to thank all of our DHI team members.
We've been the largest builder in America for the past 10 years and you have just delivered a tremendous first quarter.
We are very proud of the results you have produced and we look forward to a great fiscal year '12.
We’ve worked hard to position our company for profitability.
Now let's go lead the industry into the next up cycle and sell more homes leverage our fixed cost and continue to outperform the competition.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Now we'll host any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question was on the change in FICO score.
Sequentially it feels like it's up a little bit versus where we were maybe not too -- so much first quarter of '11 -- of '10 excuse me -- yes excuse me fiscal first quarter of '11 but certainly throughout kind of fiscal '11 it seems like it's come up.
Is that mix shift or are you guys seeing any change in underwriting at this point? I don't think there's any substantial change in underwriting.
We noticed the same thing you did that Q1 was a little bit stronger.
It was in line with Q1 last year but stronger than the balance of fiscal year '11.
I don't know that we can attribute to that in -- to anything in particular.
Research Division</strong> Okay easy enough.
Next question was a little bit more theoretical.
I kind of wanted to look out and Don I think in the prepared remarks you mentioned that community count was down 3%.
And I kind of wanted to talk about as you look forward into the recovery how do you think the land position that you have today supports the growth pattern and the growth expectations that you have? And if you think if you could kind of think about your land position in terms of the usability given current conditions and how active you're going to have to be in the land market do you think you control and own enough and option enough land now to go out and grow the way you want to outside of the kind of increasing the leverage in existing communities? Well I do believe we have adequate lots for the next 2 years as I mentioned in my comments.
I do believe as we work through this calendar year and somewhat into calendar year '13 that the finished lot supply in good markets is going to be depleted.
And we're focusing on tying up as many good deals as we can currently to in anticipation of that.
Clearly at some point in time we'll have to get back into the land development business as we have been in the past.
I want to remind you that our go-forward plan is to have a lean -- really a light and lean land supply.
Our current underwriting guidelines require that with any land that we invest in and any land that we develop that we get our capital returned in 18 months sometimes at the worst-case basis if it's a great deal 24 months.
But currently our plan is and has been for the last several years as we move forward anything greater than a 2-year supply we're going to be partnering with other land developers and make sure that they hold those lots that will require greater than 2 years as opposed to us holding them on our balance sheet.
So I feel good about where we are.
We still are clearly the preferred buyer of banks and developers because we're the largest builder.
We're also starting the most specs of anybody in the market.
And we're selling the most homes of anyone in the market.
So I feel like as we continue to work on a depleted land and lot supply we continue to be the preferred buyer.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering you talked about being cautiously optimistic of the -- about the spring here and that’s a bit less quittable [ph] than your comments over the expectations in recent years but wondering how that relates to the thoughts in terms of specs.
You've done a very good job of managing that in the past.
How much more do you think you will build based on the cautious optimism that you have right now? Well frankly we're cautious.
I think clearly we have clearly repositioned this company have it in a great position today to capitalize on the market that is going to materialize given the current economic situations.
I think the cloud that hangs over us and the reason that we use the adjective "cautious" is because there are a lot of issues both internationally as well as nationally that we have no control over.
So as a result we're just focusing on probably the next 12 months ahead when we say "cautious" because there is an election coming there are a lot of issues on the table and we don't know how those are going to impact the homebuilding business Dan.
Our next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask -- a very interesting statement you made about developing 27 000 lots I believe you said over the next 18 months.
So I wanted to understand the dynamics of that.
Does that mean -- is that simply a statement about the lack of availability of finished lots and therefore the need to develop? Is this coming from lots that are -- projects that are mothballed? Or is this the pursuit of new projects new development opportunities in the market? Yes Nishu I can clarify just a bit.
The 27 000 lots those are lots that we own today that are either partially developed or undeveloped but that our expectations with our current business plans would anticipate that we would begin to develop those lots in the next 12 to 18 months.
Obviously the choice of whether to invest the capital and develop those lots will be dependent on our sales base.
But in terms of looking at our land and lot pipeline those 27 000 lots are available to us to be developed and to be finished for our sales if the sales warrant it.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
So this is coming from your own land pipeline.
Now the general view I think that investors have taken that mothballing becomes a necessity because -- had become a necessity because demand had shrunk and that therefore there were certain areas where it became unprofitable to build.
Is this then a tentative indicator that demand is spreading back to that let's say areas that were C grade before and that the economics are becoming more feasible? Or how should we interpret that? No this is really no change in our outlook in terms of C markets as you call them.
We still have about 43 000 lots that are mothballed that we do not expect to be developing within the next 12 to 18 months.
Some of those might come online after that time frame but some could be much significantly longer.
The demand clearly is still in the A markets and that's where refocusing.
And clearly to the extent that we bring a portion of those or all of the 27 000 lots into development those are going to be in good locations where basically heretofore we've been able to find option lots that would have precluded us from having to develop the lots.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I -- hello? Yes we're here.
[Technical Difficulty] Research Division</strong> On a cell so sorry if there's any static.
The first question was just on comments with regards to January and you also if I heard you correctly say that the housing industry hasn't yet gained significant momentum.
And so the question in effect is there's been a lot of speculation around current demand and to the extent that there is a lot of views that there is some positive momentum here.
How are we to think about the -- entering the spring are you seeing things pick up at all? Or is it just more along the same type of pace that you're currently seeing in fourth -- that you've saw in the December quarter? What I can tell you is as you know Don Horton and I spend quite a bit of time in the field 2 to 3 weeks a month.
And both his travels and my travels which have been to separate markets as we visit with each and every one of our sales people as we travel through the markets indicates that our sales people are optimistic because their traffic's up and there are more buyers in their models each and every week that we have progressed since December.
So obviously December is a very slow period of the year for us with the holiday season and so forth.
But certainly into January we felt very very good about our traffic and our sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question I guess maybe a 2-parter if I can cheat a little bit.
But you mentioned community count down 3% year-over-year.
I was hoping maybe you could share what you expect that to be community count growth in 2012.
And secondly if you could highlight any regions that were let's say stronger than corporate average or weaker than corporate average.
Well I think that the 3% down is just it's an accounting issue.
It's a point in time.
And we expect our community count and count in the rest of the calendar year '12 to increase and that's going to be contingent obviously on our ability to find good and profitable land and lot deals.
I'm going to refrain from commenting on markets because of 2 things: One I think Bobby [ph] does a great job of grading the markets; and secondly I think that our good markets need to be kept to ourselves as we continue to exploit the markets ourselves as opposed to letting our competitors know about our good markets.
Our next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with ABW (sic) [KBW].
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's Jade Rahmani from KBW.
I wanted to ask about the deferred tax asset.
We are seeing quite a few banks recapture their DTA after several quarters of profitability.
And you guys have been profitable for 4 quarters in the past 2 years and indicated you expect to be profitable each quarter this year.
Do you expect to reverse it this year? And is this a once-a-year review that happens with your fiscal year end? Yes Jade we do review this every quarter.
And I can update you on where we are this quarter.
If you recall last quarter at the end of our fiscal year '11 we commented that one of the significant pieces of negative evidence that weigh into our decision is the fact that we have been in a cumulative loss position on a 3-year trailing basis.
And based on the way the standard reads that we have to apply that is a piece of evidence that is very difficult to overcome to justify reversing the valuation allowance.
At September 30 that 3-year loss position was at $445 million.
At December 31 that 3-year loss position has dropped to $355 million.
Our expectation is that we will emerge from a 3-year loss position by our fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and at that time that significant piece of negative evidence gets pulled out of our valuation.
And at that point in time then that could be the earliest possible quarter in which the valuation allowance could be reversed.
And at that point we will have to weigh in on how profitable our year has been how significant it has been and how sustainable we feel our earnings stream is at that point in time as we look forward into fiscal 2013.
And we certainly do expect the valuation allowance to be reversed.
Q4 this year would be the earliest and but there is the chance that it could be a few more quarters into fiscal '13.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to follow up I want to confirm as a profitable company that you expect to pay no federal cash taxes so long as you have this significant DTA? And then secondly once the reverses just technically that you would be accruing a tax rate in your income statement.
Yes second part first.
When we reverse the valuation allowance we will be accruing our standard income tax expense.
In the past that has been for federal and state combined around a 38% rate.
That would be our current estimate after we reverse the allowance.
In terms of taxes paid there will be state taxes that we would to expect to pay in the states where we are profitable.
Right now our estimate on that is around a 3% rate on our pretax income.
We will perhaps to the extent we have taxable income overall have to pay a slight amount of federal income tax due to the alternative minimum tax requirements in the tax law.
They won't let you get away with 0 tax.
Right now our estimate for what we might have to pay in Alt Min Tax is 2% an effective rate of 2%.
So that's what's reflected in our current quarter.
We have a 5% effective income tax rate.
That reflects 3% for the state 2% for federal.
Now Alt Min when you pay it in the future we will get to use that as a credit against future income in later years after we've used up our NOL against future years of income.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Don you mentioned that you spend a lot of time in the field.
And you also commented in your opening remarks or one of your comments that your business feels more positive.
I was wondering if you could elaborate on those 2 comments and share with us any patterns or themes that you've been picking up from your buyers and what's driving them to take the plunge right now if there's any kind of elasticity towards rates or really what themes you're picking up on.
Well I think the real key factor is that the availability of foreclosed homes still remains low.
And but most importantly the process through which the buyer has to go through in order to have a small-percentage chance of securing actually closing on a foreclosed home is very laborious.
Furthermore the state of most of these foreclosed homes are in a difficult position.
They require quite a bit of work.
And even though the buyer has to come up with a down payment and with our homes they typically would have to come with what we call a lot of cash out of pocket to make the foreclosed home more livable.
So if you take a look at that process and those factors associated with foreclosed homes and then take a look at the fact that they can buy a new home in a new community that has better school systems in many instances and better neighbors than what they're living around then in many instances we have the best buy for that buyer out there in a timely process.
Also you have to remember a number of these buyers are all of the sudden becoming qualified or they're getting the down payment and they don't want to have to wait 3 to 4 or 5 months to see if they're going to get a foreclosed home and be able to close on it and then take the cash out of their pocket to own it.
The new homebuying process today is a very seamless process and a very timely process.
With the number of specs that we have available out there on the ground for realtors and our buyers we offer the preeminent buy relative to the foreclosed homes.
I think another factor that's driving some of the demand Adam is we've had very high affordability for a while.
But rents were also relatively low.
And now we're starting to see more headlines and hear from more of our buyers that they are seeing their rates increase and that improves the equation when they're looking at their house payment compared to their rent payment.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's interesting.
So the consensus seems to be out there that we bottomed and the outlook is getting more favorable.
And so I think when that happens people start looking a little bit more -- looking out further into the future and thinking about what the longer-term earnings power is.
Can you -- for all the builders.
Can you share any thoughts on what you think 3 4 5 years out what you think the earnings power in margins might look like? Well I would say to you that clearly there've been a number of small- and medium-sized builders who have left the market.
They do not have the financing.
If you look at the public builders we have continued to acquire more and more market share in each one of our markets.
As we continue to control the land and lot supply which is necessary as we go forward and of course with our strong balance sheet that affords us the opportunity to control the land control the lots and to be able to most importantly develop the lots when the demand increases.
I believe that D.R.
Horton as a company has an opportunity to continue to acquire market share and increase our market share in each and every market.
My personal goal and again I'll say my personal goal as we go through all of this is I believe that 5 years out that we're coming very close to our 50 000 units that we closed in 2006.
So that tells you what I think the possibility is for us in this industry.
Just to tag on with operating margins in terms of our historical operating margins we have always targeted a 20% gross margin 10% SG&amp;A so 10% dropping to the pretax line.
So we are working towards that.
We're not there today but we believe we'll continue to progress.
And as the market improves we will get back to those historic operating margins as well.
And perhaps the last thing I'd like to say is that clearly if you look at all of our competitors in the industry we have the strongest balance sheet in the industry.
So clearly we have the balance sheet to get to that 50 000 units and continue to meet the demand as it moves forward and continue to take market share.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Locker from FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys bought back what 3 million shares or so just to offset some of that dilution on the convertible.
I just wanted to see what your idea of that going forward was if you're going to offset more by buying more shares maybe possibly lower or how you looked at the dilution factor of the convertible.
Sure.
We had an opportunity in the spring where we still had an abundance of cash above our $1 billion target goal.
We were at the same time retiring debt and increasing our land investment and we were also taking the opportunity to retire some stock at prices we thought were attractive at the time.
Going forward we're closer to the $1 billion target cash that we have and we're going to be weighing all of those opportunities going forward.
Our capital structure on the debt side is much more in line with what where we need it to be.
Our gross leverage is now down under 40% but we're starting to see more opportunities to invest in our core business as well.
As demand increases we'll need some of our capital for cash -- or for homes in inventory.
So we're going to be weighing those.
So I don't know that we have any firm expectations of what further share repurchases would be but we're going to take care of the core business first.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And if you’re modeling if your share price averages $14 going forward would that count in the diluted share count going forward? The diluted share count is actually an earnings calculation and we need to earn a certain amount of net income.
Right now I believe the number is around $70 million in a quarter before the convert would become dilutive because for the calculation to include the shares we would add back the interest that's flowing through our income statement related to the convert.
So it's really more than the stock price.
It's the amount of earnings that we have and whether the share count would be dilutive.
And actually if we earn $70 million even if the stock is below the 13.06 [ph] we would include the shares.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Widner from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Without going into kind of market-by-market detail I was wondering if you could talk about sort of on a percentage basis where would you describe markets as sustainably or at least apparently sustainably getting better and getting closer to not necessarily normal but substantial improvement? And how what percentage of the markets would you say are still kind of stuck in the mud for lack of a better word? I'm going to be very general because again I don't want to talk specifically about our markets any longer.
But I would say to you as Don Horton says the Sun Belt continues to be where a lot of people want to live and are focusing on living in the future.
So those markets are good for us.
And as a comparison I would say that the North continues to be weak for us compared to the Sun Belt markets.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So and then another question I guess.
You talked about getting back to 50 000 units.
Obviously that's a pretty robust growth trend from here.
One way to get there is kind of 25% growth a year for the next 5 years or another way is that it takes 10 years and it's slower growth.
So just as you contemplate kind of how all this nonsense unfurls both in the U.S.
and globally what's your expectation? Well first of all I qualified that as a personal goal.
I thought that was a major accomplishment for us in 2006 to close 50 000 units more than any builder in the U.S.
had ever closed before.
And certainly we led industry with that number.
I don't know if it's going to take us 5 years I don't know whether it's going to take us 7 years.
I just know that our balance sheet is positioned for us to be able to come back to that number more quickly than many anticipate and certainly quicker -- more quickly than other competitors in the industry.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Steven Bachman in for Bob Wetenhall.
Just a couple of quick questions.
You made several comments on SG&amp;A towards the end of your prepared comments.
But in terms of the full year do you expect SG&amp;A to be relatively flat in '12 versus the $480 million in '11? We would expect our percentage to be improved compared to '11.
A lot of what the absolute dollar amount does though will be dependent on the absolute level of homes closed because a portion of that is going to be a variable cost.
So if we have significantly higher homes closed the dollars will be higher.
If we have flat homes closed then we would expect our dollars to be lower than what we incurred last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And I guess the follow-up being the cancellation rate was 26% which is on the low end compared to the last few quarters.
We were just wondering if you were seeing any trend shifts in cancellation activity or if it was just noise in the quarter.
Probably just noise in the quarter.
We're still seeing a lot of the same drivers of cancellations primarily mortgage qualification.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> My first question relates to your comments that as that if the recovery occurs in '12 which I think it will but if it does you expected it to be not uniform across the country.
Some markets will outperform others and that sort of thing.
I was curious as to whether or not you could give us an idea the markets which you are seeing or anticipating to see greater -- stronger trends what does your margin profile look like in those markets understanding that some geographies tend to have better margin profiles generally speaking? Well again I would say to you and I'm not going to again not going to speak specifically about specific markets Steve.
But again if you look at our Sun Belt markets and certainly our coastal markets I think that's clearly where we’re seeing some of our best gross margins today.
And I think there's a reason for that and I think a number of our coastal markets have had horrific declines in lot prices over the course of the past 5 or 6 years.
And in many instances we're offering houses finished houses for what the lots were costing 5 or 6 years ago so there's an incredible buying opportunity for people who have that -- who can qualify and who want to own a second home in those markets.
And there will be additional information in the 10-Q on a regional basis.
We report our 6 operating regions in our segment reporting in our financials and in the MD&amp;A that will have some commentary around the reasons why certain regions are more profitable and what's driving the changes there as well so there will be some additional color in the 10-Q.
And I just came out of one of our markets where our gross margins were running 25% to 30%.
And you wouldn't believe me if I told you that and I certainly wouldn’t tell anybody where I was.
So as a result we do have some markets that are over-performing.
Research Division</strong> Yes well that's great and that's good to hear.
I guess my second question relates to your comments about your personal goal getting back.
I don't want to make too much of this.
I know that it can be misinterpreted.
And that's -- my intent is not to belabor it but -- so my question relates to as we look forward what we can expect in terms of market share for Horton which obviously I know that that's something that you work very hard and are very proud about maintaining strong market shares in your markets.
At the peak we saw an unusually large percentage of the starts in the country that were single-family detached for sale.
And the conventional wisdom today is that it is unlikely that the mix of starts at the as we get back into recovery will have quite the same proportion of single-family detached for-sale housing.
So I was wondering A whether you've factored that into your thinking of where you think you can grow and the targets you set internally; and then secondly whether or not you think there's an opportunity to alter your mix of products so that you can capture more of whatever starts happen to come through over the next 5 years.
Okay.
Well first of all let me say clearly it goes without saying but I want to say it clearly and that is we're interested in growth but we're always at this company interested in profitable growth.
So notwithstanding the fact of my personal goal we're never going to achieve my personal goal if the profitability is not there first.
Secondly we have as a company and especially in the 2003 '04 '05 and '06 time period had a myriad of products out there on the marketplace anywhere from single-family detached to single-family condos detached condos to townhouses to triplexes to podium-type buildings.
And so we're capable as we've proven to build any type of product.
Where we see the demand today clearly is in single-family detached with a small smattering of townhouse and to a lesser extent detached condos single-family detached condos.
So as a result what we're focused on today is single-family detached.
When that market becomes saturated then we clearly have the experience and are prepared to move into the other different types of housing products which we've proven that we can do in the past.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Zener of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
If this is the bottom of the market it’s kind of a good problem question.
But your discipline around not buying land wanting to be a short builder to avoid the some of the issues we had at the peak of the last cycle relative to the long-land position it kind of it's -- you're really limiting your upside I would say given kind of your low net leverage at current levels as well as the potential DTA.
Can you kind of talk about how you're balancing the conservative approach you've taken through this in the last few years relative to the fact that if you do buy land and builders tend to make outsized margins on land versus the vertical construction cost what should we look for because I mean you do -- and especially lands finished lands running out? What you should look for is for us to continue to lead the foray into increasing our sales increasing our closings based upon acquiring additional land and lot positions as we continue to do today.
Our only caveat is is that we're not going to risk our already sterling strong balance sheet by getting into land positions that are in excess of 2 years.
And we believe that we can continue to produce the kind of volume and the profitability by laying off anything that's greater than 2 years to an investor or to a partner to hold that land that's in greater than 2 years.
No one in the home building industry that I know of including ourselves were intelligent enough to figure out when to start laying off land quickly enough.
So all of us ended up trashing our balance sheets within -- and had future impairments based upon our inability to determine how much land we should hold at a specific time.
So I guess after all these years with Horton 28 years and D.R.
being in the business longer than that we've got our balance sheet back to the strongest in the industry.
We're not going to risk that in anticipation of a market that may have a future dip.
And who knows what the market may bring? Currently we sort of think that this is the bottom of the market.
We're not certain.
If you’ll recall back 3 and 4 years ago there were a number of people who were a lot smarter than we or at least they thought who were out picking out finished lots deals and land positions and basically the market continued to work downward from that position.
So once again our position is we're going to grow profitably and we're going to grow faster than virtually any other builder but we're going to do it in a sane way to preserve our balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> Just I -- on the mothballed units Bill you talked -- I thought I heard you say 43 000.
What was that last year and last quarter? Because I thought it was a bit lower even though it's staying about 20% of your inventory dollars.
And then can you talk about the distribution of these mothballed lots relative to your comments around finished lots and the end markets expiring over the next 2 years? So does your excess lots mothballed lots happen to coincide where development of lots is going to have to occur? In terms of the number of mothballed lots we're 4-flat with a quarter ago.
And a year ago we were at 44 000 so we're down about 1 000 there.
And then in terms of the location of our mothballed lots typically these are in areas that are a little bit further out from where the development is occurring today.
It will take some market improvement and market expansion in general before we would feel the need to bring some amount of that land on.
And then the other element that characterizes some of the our held land is the fact that it would take significant development investment to bring that those lots to market.
And today the returns aren’t sufficient to justify that additional investment.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Smith from JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just most of my questions have been answered but I'll do a follow-up to something you said DT.
You -- I'm just trying to understand this a little bit better.
You talked about I think if I remember correctly earlier you were saying that the overall housing market wasn't getting a whole lot more traction.
But clearly you guys are seeing a pick-up and you said even specifically in December and January seeing a pick-up in your traffic levels and the number of buyers you have in your models.
So I'm assuming and you mentioned this briefly that you're kind of chalking that up to market share gains.
Is there any way for you to either quantify that or give more color on it? I mean is it sort of universal across all your markets more concentrated in some markets than others? And how do you get a sense of what those market share gains are and how strong they are other than just anecdotally noticing that maybe the overall market is pretty flat but you guys are obviously doing better on the traffic front? I think a lot of it has to do with DR and I being in these markets and assessing the situations ourselves.
Clearly I will say to you as I said earlier where we're getting better traction than -- is in the Sun Belt areas and the coastal markets than we are in the northern markets.
And I think that will continue to be true.
There's generally in each of our markets at least one firm that tracks the relative performance of the homebuilders in that market so that information is generally available.
And we can track by specific market what our market share is based on either sales or building permits generally are the 2 metrics that are tracked.
Research Division</strong> So then let me ask you as a follow-up.
Going forward the sort of optimism part of the cautious optimism is that based more on the idea that you guys will continue because you're in a strong position and you have the balance sheet that you do and you guys will continue to gain market share in at least most of your markets versus optimism that the worm is turning on the overall housing market? I mean could you see a sort of flat 2012 in the overall market but you guys continue to outperform because of those market share gains? I think that we could see a slight improvement in the overall market for the entire industry in 2012.
We would be disappointed if we didn't get our lion's share of that increase so as a result it's just slow methodical improvement.
We don't expect the new home industry to go back to 750 000 units overnight.
I believe that for the new home industry clearly as I've said before that we are seeing some drivers coming our way from people tired of dealing with foreclosures and short sales and also the affordability that's present in the new home industry today.
So as a result all those factors combined I think there's going to be a slight upward trend in 2012 and hopefully a slightly better upward trend in 2013 as the economy U.S.
economy begins to recover and we start generating some new jobs in this country.
The one driver that we're missing in our industry and the reason we're scrapping around in the marketplace trying to get additional market share is because there are no new jobs being created of any significance.
And until we get our act together the new job creation -- the new home building industry will continue to scrape along the bottom with little ups and little downs but no significant improvement.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Barrón from Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> So my question is when we met I guess about a year ago I think at the time your company's goals were to kind of focus on reducing debt and using the free cash flow for that purpose.
And I guess kind of where you sit now I'm wondering if you're still going to -- if that's still part of the strategy to kind of keep one foot on the brakes and one foot on the accelerator or if you think your $1 billion of cash would be more towards the use of buying land? Like how -- I mean given that your optioning land it doesn't sound like you need a lot of capital so how are you thinking about that? Well clearly we're cautiously optimistic and I think that's a good analogy: We've got one foot on the brake and one foot on the accelerator because again we don't see any substantial significant immediate improvement in the industry.
It's going to be slow and methodical as we work our way back up so we are very very very protective of our $1 billion in cash.
And we are also very very conservative so we look forward in terms of land positions.
And as I said earlier we're not interested in buying anything where we have to get our capital back in greater than 2 years right now and frankly most of it's 18 months.
So we're prepared and positioned and experienced to do whatever is necessary to capitalize on an expanding market if and when we see a substantial increase in the market.
LLC</strong> Okay.
My other question is are you starting to see or hear anecdotally that people who went through the foreclosure or short-sale process and have been renting for the last few years are they starting to come back into your sales offices to buy? And if so how are you capitalizing on this trend if that's what's happening? Well I think we have seen those people.
And we have people in our own company who have gone through the short sale and the foreclosure process who thought they were going to get a great deal and many of them have come back and bought a D.R.
Horton home thank you.
But at the same time I think that that's still a very laborious process as I've said.
Yes and Alex I think you may be asking a different question in terms of people who actually had their home foreclosed on and are now looking to buy another home.
Is that right? We'll assume it is.
But yes we do see some of that.
There's a certain time frame after a short sale and a little bit longer time frame after a foreclosure where people can come back into the market.
And their credit doesn’t reflect the effects of those occurrences.
So we have seen some of that picking up and that's one of the things that we've mentioned a few times.
Our mortgage company has the DHI Mortgage Home Buyers Club that helps people work toward home ownership and we have been working with some people who have been through those situations before.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Susan Berliner from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just want to talk a little bit about the mortgage side I guess with regards -- just would love your updated opinion are DTAs mostly behind you guys at this point? And have any of your customers talked about mortgage availability being a little bit easier over the past couple of quarters? Or where does it stand? I don't see any -- well as Stacey said earlier the mortgage qualification process is still a strenuous process.
And it's -- the mortgage companies in general have higher underwriting guidelines than they had 3 4 5 years ago.
So we don't see any relief in that respect at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And mortgage put-backs are those kind of behind you do you think at this point? We still have a few of those coming back to us.
We have had very few relative to the number of mortgages that we underwrote over the years.
We continue to be well accrued for any potential put-backs.
And frankly we evaluate each and every put-back and to the extent that we disagree with it we're fighting very hard with those mortgage companies who are trying to put those back to us for reasons that are difficult to understand.
Then in the current quarter we did have $1.7 million of recourse expense so still some impact there.
And our total accrual or reserve in the mortgage company remains at about $32 million.
Our next question comes from the line of Jay McCanless from Guggenheim.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question could you please repeat the guidance you gave at the end of the prepared remarks? At a very high level Jay without reading the whole thing we basically said: with a lower backlog and a conversion rate below 90% fewer closings in Q2 than Q1; strongest sales in Q2 and Q3 lead to strongest closings in Q3 and Q4; gross margins to remain in the mid-16% range; sequential increase in SG&amp;A expense in the second quarter which will result in a higher SG&amp;A percentage but in Q3 and Q4 higher absolute SG&amp;A but lower percentages.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then the other question that I had.
On last quarter's conference call I believe there was a discussion about culling neighborhoods unprofitable neighborhoods culling unprofitable specs.
Where are you with that process? And has the sales activity that you've seen over the last 2 months has that changed the process? And just a general update on what you're thinking with those now.
Clearly we have continued the culling process of our lower-margin subdivisions.
We try to retrade them initially rework the sales price on the lot.
If the seller is not willing to do that then we exit that subdivision.
Where most of that happened quite frankly is in the Carolinas and we've made a lot of progress in terms of culling our lower-margin subdivisions in the Carolinas.
It's a continuing process and even though we believe we are entering into profitable contracts at times we don't and we go back and rework those contracts or cull those.
But that'll be a continuing process of the company.
It's the same thing on our spec inventory.
It's a continual process month to month week to week.
Our sales teams are focused on moving aged inventory and keeping our spec inventory in line with sales so it's just an ongoing part of our management.
But as far as our specs are concerned we continue to offer the right number of specs in the right number communities.
Every once in a while we'll get an aged spec and there is an incentive to move that spec.
But it's a strong position for us to be in because realtors across the country sell -- still sell a large percentage of our homes for which we are very grateful because they bring a qualified buyer to us and it's a seamless process once that realtor brings that buyer into our sales office.
Our next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko from SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Most have been asked and answered but I was just thinking about this commentary that we had just wrapped up on spec.
And slow methodical overall but it does seem like the industry -- one of the bigger opportunities for the industry is this notion of higher rents and continued higher rents.
So just wondering sort of philosophically you've always been a spec builder.
Specs ramp into the seasonal demand period as well but have you this year maybe thought about your spec business a little differently given the rise in rents? Is there anything you can talk to there just sort of conceptually? Well I think one -- the answer to your question our spec strategy has not been dictated or changed much by the rent increases that we've -- that other buyers -- or renters are experiencing.
I will say one thing: They may be disappointed with the increases in the rental rates but one of the big factors that's preventing them from becoming a non-renter is the fact that either their credit history needs to be improved or the fact that they don't have the down payment.
So as a result as Stacey mentioned earlier our Home Buyers Club are taking those people and converting them into homebuyers as we educate them on the financial system which most of those people are good credit risk.
It's just that they have not understood the financial reporting system and gotten themselves into some difficulty in terms of their credit history.
And our Home Buyers Club is doing a fantastic job of converting those people into homebuyers.
And most of those that we get through the process and graduate are D.R.
Horton buyers.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the mothballed side.
I mean is it basically coming down to employment levels? Obviously a lot goes into what makes a mothball not a mothball going forward.
But how do we think about -- is it new home pricing? I mean obviously you've probably written this stuff down.
It doesn't make sense to sell it here.
But does employment need to move out to those areas? Or is it we need to see 10% 12% price increases? I mean how are you thinking about the mothballed generally? I think generally we have less as we mentioned land.
It's all in a continuum of probably from 1 to 10 years but most of it's somewhere in the 3- to 5-year range my perception is.
And as the depleted -- as the lot supply the finished lot supply becomes depleted and that's going to be one driver.
The second driver is just clearly the land component of a finished lot today in many markets is nominal and so as a result we're going to have to have some increase in housing prices to justify being able to pay the land seller something for their land or for our land to have the value that we've got on it in our books today in order to bring it into development.
So I think it's a function of 2 things.
But clearly we're depleting the finished lot supply.
And as we finish -- we deplete that finished lot supply we're going to have to start developing lots.
And as a result there's going to be some increase in the value of housing prices as that depleted lot supply occurs and land will become developable for us that we've got mothballed.
Our last question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-ups.
One is on the watchlist.
I didn't hear you guys give a brief update if you care to share that? And then secondly the FHA regionally disclosed additional risk reduction steps including requiring indemnifications from certain lenders.
Wondering if you think that could have any impact.
Jade on the watchlist we had a watchlist of $363 million at the end of December which is slightly up from $354 million at the end of September.
But primarily that's been pretty much in-line and that's reflective of the more stable market conditions we've seen.
Have not seen a lot of change in that and that showed up as low impairments this quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the FHA on their additional requirements for lender indemnification.
Anything on the FHA? We haven't seen anything or had a chance to evaluate that at this point.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Tomnitz for closing comments.
Thank you.
And thank you for joining our Q1 Conference Call.
As you can tell we are very pleased with our Q1 performance.
And again we'd like to thank all of our DHI team members for a great quarter.
And as usual and as I saw on the back of a ship in the harbor recently to quote the name of the boat was "Never Enough." And frankly there's never enough performance and good performance from us and as you can tell our investors and our shareholders expect more from us so please go out there.
We have a big challenge in Q2.
And we expect to be able to achieve profitability in Q2 Q3 Q4  and have a very very good and profitable fiscal year '12.
Thank you.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Donald J.
Tomnitz President and CEO.
Thank you Mr.
Tomnitz.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer and Mike Murray Vice President and Controller.
Before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and our most recently -- recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? Thank you.
The spring selling season did arrive this year and it is still in full swing.
Our net sales orders were up 55% sequentially from the December quarter and up 19% from our second quarter last year.
Our average sales price increased to $222 700 during the quarter and the value of our net sales orders increased 28% compared to the year-ago quarter.
We've also seen continued sales strength into April.
Our sales this quarter resulted in a 17% year-over-year increase in our backlog units which puts us in a strong position for increased revenue and profitability in the second half of fiscal 2012.
In response to our improving sales we have increased our homes under construction while reducing our spec percentage to 50% which is the lowest level in recent history.
We are also evaluating and selectively investing in land acquisition and development.
We're using our strong operating position and our solid balance sheet to profitably grow our business in the current housing environment.
We are demonstrating our ability to leverage our fixed costs while increasing production in response to stronger demand in our communities even though macroeconomic and housing conditions remain soft.
We see uneven improvement across our operating markets with some markets experience in increases in demand and others remaining weak.
However we are finding opportunities to take market share and existing markets while evaluating the attractive new sub-markets.
We continue to dominate the entry-level market while expanding our product offerings for move-up buyers.
We are optimistic for the remainder of fiscal year 2012 after recording net income of $68.3 million for the first 6 months.
Mike? In the second quarter our Homebuilding operations generated pretax income of $34.6 million and our Financial Services operations generated pretax income of $7.7 million.
Our net income for the quarter increased 46% to $40.6 million or $0.13 per diluted share from $27.8 million or $0.09 per diluted share in the prior-year quarter.
Our second quarter home sales revenues increased 27% to $931 million on 4 240 homes closed up from $733 million on 3 516 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was up 5% compared to the prior year and up 2% sequentially to $219 500.
Don? Net sales orders for the second quarter were up 19% from last year to 5 899 homes on a 6% decrease in our active-selling communities.
In the March quarter our average sales price on net sales orders of $222 700 was up 7% compared to the prior quarter and up 3% sequentially.
Our cancellation rate for the second quarter was 22% which is very close to our historical pre-downturn cancellation rate range of 17% to 21%.
Our sales backlog at March 31 2012 increased 17% from the prior year to 6 189 homes.
The value of the backlog increased 25% to $1.4 billion from $1.1 billion a year ago.
Stacey? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the second quarter was 17.6% up 140 basis points from the year-ago period.
80 basis points of the increase was due to cost improvements and decreased incentives and discounts.
50 basis points of the decrease was due to reduction in amortized interest and property taxes.
Also contributing 10 basis points was a decrease in the estimated cost for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenues.
Sequentially incentives and discounts were flat.
However our gross margin improved 80 basis points from the first quarter due to the decrease in the estimated costs for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenues.
This largely reflects a higher level of insurance recoveries received than in the first quarter including a $2.4 million reimbursement of costs related to Chinese drywall.
Bill? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter which includes corporate overhead was $128 million up only 3% from the year-ago quarter on a 21% increase in homes closed.
As a percentage of Homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A was 13.6% down 320 basis points from 16.8% a year ago reflecting both the improvement in volume and our continued efforts to control costs.
We also continue to see the benefits of our aggressive debt reduction over the past several years as Homebuilding interest expense was down 63% from the year-ago quarter to $5.5 million.
And our second quarter Homebuilding interest incurred decreased 17% to $28.1 million.
Our capitalized interest balance at March 31 totaled $81.1 million which is only 3.2% of inventory.
Mike? Financial Services pretax income for the quarter was $7.7 million which included $1.1 million of recourse expense.
82% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our Homebuilding operations.
Our mortgage company handled the financing for 60% of our homebuyers this quarter with virtually all loans meeting eligibility requirements for sale to Fannie Mae Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 57% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter down from 61% in the year-ago quarter.
Our mortgage company's new borrowers during the quarter had an average FICO score of 706 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 91%.
First-time homebuyers represented 49% of the closings handled by our mortgage company this quarter.
Stacey? Since December our total inventory increased by approximately $155 million excluding noncash items.
We increased our homes and inventory by $82 million and our investment in residential land and lots by $73 million.
Our homes and inventory at the end of March totaled 11 100 homes up 900 homes from December.
As of March 31 1 100 of our homes remodels 5 500 were speculative homes and 2 200 of the specs were completed.
Our spec percentage improved to 50% from 56% at December 31.
Don? In our second fiscal quarter our investments in land lots and development costs totaled $319 million which reflects our ability to find good opportunities to open new communities and replenish our finished lot supply.
We continue to purchase our option finished lots in many markets and are also selectively investing in land acquisition and development opportunities to ensure we have adequate lots applies in desirable markets.
In March 31 2012 we control approximately 121 000 lots of which 86 000 are owned and 35 000 are option.
Our owned lots include 23 000 finished lots and 20 000 lots to be developed within the next 12 to 18 months.
Our option lots consist of 24 000 finished lots and 11 000 lots that we generally expect to purchase and develop within 12 to 18 months bringing our minimum pipeline of finished lots over the next 2 years to 78 000.
Bill? We used $79 million of cash in operations in the March quarter primarily due to increases in homes and inventory residential land and lots and mortgage loans held for sale offset by net income and an increase in accounts payable.
We ended the quarter with $961 million of Homebuilding unrestricted cash and marketable securities.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at March 31 was just under $1.6 billion with no maturities until May of 2013.
Mike? At March 31 our Homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash and marketable securities was 18.9% compared to 18.7% a year ago.
Gross Homebuilding leverage at March 31 improved 580 basis points to 37.1% due to debt reductions and increased equity.
Stacey? Before we move to Q&amp;A we wanted to share our expectations for some of our operating metrics.
With 6 189 homes in backlog at March 31 and solid sales through the first part of April we expect stronger closings and profits in the third and fourth quarters.
Our sales during the March quarter combined with spec inventory of 56% at the beginning of the quarter enabled us to convert 94% of our beginning backlog into closings.
With specs now at 50% of total inventory we expect that our future backlog conversion rate will be below 90%.
Our current expectation is for home sales gross margin to remain in the mid-16% to mid-17% range.
Our absolute SG&amp;A expense in the third and fourth quarters will increase due to variable components.
However our SG&amp;A percentage should improve as we close more homes and leverage our fixed cost structure.
We continue to analyze the need for a valuation allowance for deferred tax asset.
If our current business trends continue we expect to be out of our 3-year cumulative loss position before the end of the fiscal year.
If our business the Homebuilding industry and the economic conditions remain stable we may be able to significantly reduce the valuation allowance at some point in the next few quarters.
Don? I don't have a formal closing this quarter as our strong numbers speak for themselves.
However I would like to thank all of our DHI teammates for producing an outstanding quarter.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll host any questions you have now.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Don I was wondering if you could elaborate a bit on your comments about the improvement being uneven.
I was wondering if you could -- are there any themes between the markets that were improving and weren't.
And I wonder if you could explain what those were? And also in that if you could comment on what you're seeing in the existing inventory market and how that's been affecting those trends? Well I'll take the second part of your question first.
I noticed a lot of media coverage around foreclosures.
And frankly one of the things that we think is that the foreclosures that are available to our buyers today are in typically poor condition requiring quite a bit of cash out of pocket to make them livable.
And I think that's one of the reasons why you're consistently seeing over 1/3 or equivalent to 1/3 of existing home sales go to all-cash buyers which means that the investors who have the money to take out of their pocket to put -- to improve those homes.
But our buyers are typically looking for a new home obviously with a good warranty to behind it and frankly something that they don't have to take cash out of their pocket.
So I think we're in a very very strong position notwithstanding the fact that banks are supposedly going to increase the number of foreclosures they're putting on the market.
But again I think these are tertiary buys compared to what the new home buy is for our customers.
Now generally speaking as I go across the country and I don't like to identify markets anymore as which ones are strong and which ones are weak there are just several markets and primarily in the Sun Belt in the coastal regions that continue to be better markets for us.
And typically those are where some job creation is taking place and if you certainly look at the state of Texas state of Texas is generating jobs and the state of Texas continues to be a very good market for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then my second question is if I just look at the prices you reported both in closing price and order price it's generally with the exception of maybe 1 or 2 regions they were all up.
I was wondering if you could comment on just how much of that is mix related versus your building to raise prices now.
Well Bill I think will put some more color on this.
But frankly as you recall probably 12 months or so ago 18 months or so ago we began talking about focusing more on the move-up buyer.
And we have been focusing on the move-up buyer and I certainly think that's one of the factors contributing to our increase in our ASPs.
And generally we believe that the change in mix towards move-up buyers is the top primary driver behind our increase in our average selling prices right now.
We do in a very limited basis see the opportunity to raise prices or reduce incentives somewhat incrementally in some areas right now.
But I think by far the largest factors are changing product mix towards move-up.
And frankly from a perspective of offering that move-up product with our cost structure both from the land side as well as from the hard cost side the direct sell side we can develop and build a better if not equally as good a product as a custom home builders who are having difficulty getting financing and offer better product to the buyer.
Our next question comes from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on Adam's question about foreclosures.
And do – he totally understood that concept that you're not really competing against the foreclosure home given that it's in poor condition and there's lot of out-of-pocket.
But are you worried that the foreclosures that come on the market limit the ability to raise prices simply because if an investor comes in buys the house prices are going up they're more likely to flip the house than they are to rent it? I think certainly they're going to flip the house at some point in time.
I think that clearly they're going to take some time to fix these up but at the same time I think they're going to hold them for a period when the pricing improves.
So I don't see any immediate competition from the investor who basically probably has a 2- to 3-year horizon before they flip the housing -- flip the house.
Also our pricing power is not as strong as it has been in the past in many years so I think we're still out there facing pretty much flat pricing.
Most of where we're coming from is by being able to delete our incentives and our sales so to speak.
We don't have nearly as many event-driven sales this year as what we have in the past.
We've had more of a level sales from the beginning of the year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just my follow-up question was on -- and I know you guys have talked about a strategy of looking at more of a move-up buyer and  shift a little bit away from the first time.
And I just wondered if you -- is that really because that's where the buyer segment is now? Or is that a question more where land buying is now? Can you talk about maybe how that kind of goes moving forward? It doesn't seem like underwriting's changing it all for buyers especially the marginal buyer.
So do think that ship kind of continues and the first time kind of continues to decline as a percentage of the overall volumes? Well I think that our move-up buyer segment will continue to increase as a percentage of our overall sales as we move forward.
Also as I mentioned earlier we're very competitive with the custom builders out there who cannot get the financing.
And the second part of it is that that second time buyer and that third time buyer basically have a lot more to put down and they don't have the challenging FICO scores a lot of our entry-level buyers have.
So the down payment and the better credit scores help us meet that buyer demand a lot easier than the entry-level buyer.
And David if you go back to prior to the downturn our historic average mix had 35% to 40% of our buyers being first time home buyers and a fairly equivalent number of move-up buyers.
I think what you're seeing in this shift is a shift back closer to a more normal mix for us.
During the downturn the first-time homebuyer was a much larger percentage.
They got as high as 60% for us.
And I think we're seeing a shift back towards a more normal mix now.
Our next question comes from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on the gross margins.
I was hoping to get a little better sense for the guidance relative to what you put up this quarter which was the best in quite some time I guess 2 years or so.
I would think that with better volume to the extent that there's obviously a little bit of fixed cost even in the gross margin side you could do a little better potentially than the $17.6 million.
So I just wanted to get in terms of the thought process if there were some drivers that you think might push it back to the range that you put out there? Mike as we talked about on the conference call most of our sequential improvement was not necessarily from underlying strength in being able to raise sales prices.
It came from a change in our estimates related to warranty and construction defects.
So when we're giving the guidance going forward we're taking into account that sequentially we've seen very good sales but we haven't necessarily seen a pickup in our underlying margins just yet.
So we've got the range that encompasses about where we were this quarter but also allows for the core margin to remain about where it is.
In terms of volume none of our margin is contingent on volumes.
Everything is house-specific and flows-through cost of sales.
It's previously capitalized inventory until the home closes it doesn't hit cost of sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
The second question Don you mentioned your prepared remarks that you're going to be evaluating selected land acquisition and development maybe picking up that pace going forward.
Also evaluating new sub-markets.
So I was wondering if you could expand on that a little bit from an inventory kind of balance sheet perspective even.
I guess a couple of questions.
Where do you see to the extent that the improvement in the market backdrop continues? Where do you see the debt to cap going? And also the investment dollars going in terms of the inventory balance? And if you could kind of give us at least broadly a sense of which new type of submarkets you might be evaluating? First of all let me emphasize that notwithstanding the fact that we are looking at some land and lot development deals our business model still is a land light business model and our focus is very strict underwriting guidelines on our development deals.
90-plus percent of all of our deals development deals require that we get our capital back in 2 years or less.
There are some outliers but not very many outliers.
On a go-forward basis we'll continue to -- where finished lots are not available at attractive prices.
We'll continue to evaluate those land a lot development deals.
We have in the past as you know been a large developer and we'll continue to develop where it's optimistic for us.
And then Mike in terms of our balance sheet and how we're managing that the pace of our investments in land land development and finished lots has increased.
Over the past couple of years we had invested around $800 million in total.
This quarter we invested a little over $300 million.
So that pace has increased about 50% from where the pace had been.
So we are seeing the opportunities to increase that pace in response with our -- to our improved sales.
But all of those investments will be done within the constraints of where we want to keep our balance sheet targets and our liquidity targets.
We still expect to maintain a strong balance sheet.
Our target is to still keep our net debt to cap down below the 40% to 45% range.
Clearly we have a lot of room on that today.
And this is really just reflective of how we prepared this company for the ultimate recovery in the housing market.
We've been -- we generated a lot of cash during the downturn.
We paid off a lot of debt.
And we have a lot of cash on our balance sheet.
So we're in a very strong position to be able to reinvest in our business now as we see the opportunities.
I think especially relative to our peers I think our debt to cap and our net debt to cap is extraordinary strong and permits us the opportunity to continue to aggregate market share from our competitors as well as the custom homebuilders.
Our next question comes from Dan Oppenheim of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Stacey you talked about the lower backlog conversion rate going forward given the more limited spec inventory.
What about the other side of that in terms of margins? Do you think there's any positive impact on margins from having fewer spec sales coming through? There certainly could be going forward which is why we give a rather wide range with the high end of the range above last quarter's margin.
It essentially includes this quarter's margin.
And I would also say to you from our construction cycle perspective we're starting and finishing homes at a much faster pace than what we have especially during the hot markets of the '04 '05 '06.
And so as a result notwithstanding the fact that we are down to 50% specs we can build them quickly.
And a number of our buyers are coming into our models today which is a good deal for us and that is requesting build jobs so that they can get the house their way.
And as you evaluate our gross margins you'll clearly find that that's an opportunistic position for us.
And that's a little bit reflective of the change of the product mix as our sales mix shifts more from first-time homebuyer to move-up buyer you see -- you're seeing our spec mix shift with that as we see more build-to-order jobs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And the second question then I'm wondering about -- you touched about looking for land and expands different submarkets.
As you think forward into '13 and '14 what do you think in terms of just what you want to be doing in terms of the aim for communicant growth through the next several years? Our goal is to continue to grow our community count and we are out there aggressively adding new subdivisions to each 1 of our 4 regions.
I think relatively relative to our peers we've added more new deals and any other builder in the marketplace today.
So our game plan is to continue to grow where growth make sense.
But I don't want to get focused on so much the growth because the one thing we've done is we've gotten our debt down and we also have got -- we still have work to do on our gross margins.
And our goal is to try to get our gross margins up to the 20% levels.
So we still as you can tell from what we're -- the guidance we're giving you which is a 16.5% to 17.5% for the second half of the year we still have goals that exceed our current margins.
So growth is important but profitability is more important.
And Dan just one clarifying point in terms of our active-selling communities.
Our selling communities were flat sequentially from December.
They are down 6% year-over-year which reflect some of the activity that we talked about in the second half of last year as far as cutting out underperforming communities.
And so we've accomplished that but we are actively adding new communities today and would expect that to increase sequentially going forward.
Our next question comes from Ken Zener of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> You talked about the sales trends in April being solid.
Could clarify that relative to the 2Q rate we saw at 19%? Very similar.
That continues to be strong.
Research Division</strong> And then the -- related to the community count which is down 6% I mean do you -- please feel free to give us your community count if you have it.
However it seems that the absorption pace would've increased on the order of 20% to 25%.
Can you talk about why that's occurring what the dynamics are if it's better location intentional strategy to drive volume through fewer communities and to quantify your community count increase.
Is it going to be single-digit or is it a bigger round into the back half? Well clearly one of our focuses has been to penetrate our existing subdivisions deeper.
In other words to increase our net sales per subdivision per community because that is an optimum position for us.
The key is we called a number of subdivisions that weren't performing.
But most importantly and for the majority of the instances we've gone back and reworked our pricing and our take down schedules on our option deals to enhance the performance of those communities.
So I think it's a wonderful thing that would have increased our absorptions per community because they were a little low in our estimation.
Now the other thing I think you're seeing and I've read in several analysts reports that we kind of referred to a couple of times here the other opportunity is for home buyers are smaller than they were.
There aren't as many other builders offering new homes so you're seeing a disconnect in terms of the national new home data and what you're actually seeing terms of the large public builders as we're taking market share.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your closings this quarter obviously there's a very different variety of ways to think about a forecast but you guys were very specific.
What's with -- in terms of its conversion rate was weather the factor that led to the higher volume of closings? Ken I'd say the #1 reason was our reduction in our spec count.
We reduced our spec from 56 to 50 and so there was a focus.
I would say that in general our closings exceeded our expectations for this quarter a bit.
We didn't expect to convert quite as high but I think it was mainly driven by specs.
Weather in a certain point in time always does have some effect but largely we do it as driven by specs.
We don't like to blame weather for our lack or performance nor do we like to give weather credit for our over performance.
The real issue is strongly that our people are outperforming everyone in the industry and they executed the business plan that we put forth to them 6 months ago and they're exceeded their business plan.
So no weather here.
Our next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on some of the earlier questions about future growth plans.
I know you mentioned that you would like to increase your community count and that's what you're aiming.
But if I look at the 6% year-over-year decrease if I look at your balance sheet with the super strong 17% I think you said net debt to cap against kind of 40% to 45% longer-term target you have I think you could argue that you're still taking it -- you're still taking a somewhat cautious approach.
So at some stage in the future the headroom you have in your balance sheet argues that you would put that to work and expand investment and community count growth into recovery.
So just wanted to drill in with some specificity on what do you need to see to kind of really press down the accelerator a little bit harder? You mentioned gross margins.
I mean is that what you're waiting to see? Are you waiting to see that you can consistently maintain your gross margin before you really begin to flex your balance sheet into the recovery? Frankly we're waiting for a lot of things.
Let's not forget the -- I used to say that someone flip the switch February 1 on our buyers.
I think frankly they just increased the real steps slightly and we've had higher traffic in our communities and we've had higher sales.
I don't think that you need to worry about our community count because one thing that we can do is we certainly can increase our community count rapidly.
The thing that we are looking at in general though is that if you look at the macroeconomic situation in the U.S.
I don't see very much of any job growth out there currently.
And job growth is clearly what drives our business.
So we have country that has a tremendous amount of debt and we still have a lot of unemployed people in this country and for -- and a lot of underemployed people.
So what we're looking for is a general increase in the macroeconomic conditions in the U.S.
before we start to become over-exuberant.
We're 3 months into this and are we ecstatic? Yes but we're not over-exuberant.
And specifically in our business we're on a front-edge of seeing some early indications on a number of factors that could be improving.
But again this is only 2 months into a selling season and that doesn't necessarily make a trend.
Improving absorptions slightly improving kind of rates and some improvement in sales prices and margins those are certainly good indications but we're on the early stages of that.
And with all that being said if you look at our option lot positions since September we've grown the number of lots we have under option by 8 000.
We've increased our own lots by about 1 000 and we have spent more money this quarter than we have in the recent past on land and lots.
So even with all the caveats we're feeling better about our business overall.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
And then second question through all of the noise about the FHA last month I think one of the interesting things that emerged was that a breakdown of that government loans figure.
I think you said it was 57% and the VA is probably running at let's say 15% or 20% of that.
So probably higher than what most investors have thought that VA percentage might be.
So I wanted to get your thoughts on that going forward.
What does it tell us that the VA percentage is so high? Is that a sustainable percentage as well going forward as the housing recovery continues? In other words is the VA going to be able to support growth if that continued 15% to 20% of volumes range? That's been -- the VA percentage has been fairly consistent for us over times.
Whether it's sustainable I'm not sure I know the answer to that.
But over time that's been a fairly consistent percentage.
As far as our overall business percentage in FHA and VA combined that's actually down year-over-year.
So a 57% that's down a bit from where we've been in the past.
And the real number on that is 20% is VA and 37% is FHA.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen East of ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> If we just stayed on the FHA for a minute we had some insurance that went into effect and then we also have sitting out there potentially seller financing concessions.
One do you think there was any impact from the insurance going into effect? And 2 as you look at this potential seller financing concession change do you see that impacting your business? And if so how much? I think we didn't see a big impact Steve on the mortgage insurance change coming into play.
And on the seller financing limits as they come into play I think it may elongate the time for some buyers to accumulate more of their cash required to close the transaction.
But I think that's a 1x event that will shift some buyers to later periods.
I can't tell you we'd quantify that real strongly right now.
The proposed change in state the capital and the seller contributions toward closing calls from 6% down to 3%.
Our average right now is closer to the new proposed cap.
So we don't ever start offering 6% closing costs.
So it might impact some of our marginal buyers but overall it's not going to be a significant impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And then if I look at 2 different issues: one are you seeing any cost inflation out there? And if so what type of impact is it going to have this year on your gross margin? And then 2 your Texas growth was modest relative to the overall growth.
Could you just talk a little bit about what's going on there? I think Texas obviously has been -- I don't think I know it's been a strong market for us for even all through the downturn.
And frankly as we have some of our other markets kick in it's less of a percentage in terms of our growth on a go-forward basis.
But Texas let me assure you is strong and we're continuing to expand our footprint in all of our Texas markets.
I would say to you on the cost side clearly we are receiving cost pressures.
We're negotiating those as strongly as we can.
One of the difficult things is obviously as we began to begin to report a profit then all of a sudden our suppliers and vendors began to realize that we are making money.
But bottom line is we're still not as profitable as we'd like and we are also starting more homes than anybody else in the country so as a result we are very very competitively pricing and bidding everything that we've got going forward.
And we want to work with our suppliers and our vendors.
But we still have a lot more to accomplish in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> All right.
If I could ask one other on the DTA that you talked about.
You talked about moving into a profitability on 3 year.
If I look at the trailing 12 quarters you're already there.
Is there something else you're looking at before you bring the DTA back onto the balance sheet? On a simple pretax income basis all in pretax consolidated pretax income basis we're not quite there yet.
We're at about $200 million loss on a 3-year trailing basis right now.
So -- but we do see that -- we do see as getting out of that position sometime before the end of the fiscal year.
That is one of the major factors clearly that goes into the evaluation.
But it's one factor.
Obviously we want to see ourselves deliver our backlog strongly the rest of this year.
We want to see our sales continue to be strong and our pricing to remain stable our margins remain strong profitability levels and remains as good as well.
And then we also then look at the rest of the industry conditions as well as general economic conditions and the mortgage markets.
So all of those things will go into the mix and evaluating when we feel confident that that asset can come back onto the box.
Ultimately -- but it's just a matter of timing and ultimately it's just a general entry.
It's just the balance sheet entry.
It's not -- it will not change our cash position one bit and so when that happens it will happen.
Whether that happens before the end of fiscal year or not it changes a few metrics but ultimately it doesn't change our business one bit.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Anto for Joshua.
With higher share of your late 2009 early 2000 land being delivered and the early '10 early '11 share increasing how different are the margins here versus what is rolling off? Yes clearly the margins on more recent land purchases will typically be a bit higher than land that we purchased earlier.
In '09 the market was still struggling some and so some purchases we would've made in '09 may not have performed at the levels that we expected if conditions deteriorated and the more recent purchases are more in line with where the market conditions are today.
I don't have numbers in front of me to be able to quantify the difference.
But clearly more recent purchases that we've been able to evaluate with our current cost structures and with the current market conditions would have better margins.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What is any changes in orders or cancellation did you see during the first week of April than that was neither on the FHA requirements? And could you also talk about how the mortgage company is planning for -- when the things are again re-implemented come July? We haven't seen any real changes in our cancellation trends here in April.
And I'm sorry I didn't quite pick up the second half.
Yes the second part how would we prepared to respond to the FHA changes.
And it's going to be business as usual and we'll just be working with each customer with the available loan guidelines that are out there.
One benefit we have at D.R.
Horton is we have what we our Home Buyers Club.
And we work very specifically with people who have credit challenges and help them plan for homeownership whether it is cleaning up collection items on their credit report establish a payment plan for that improving their credit score just to establishing a savings plan for their down payment.
And frankly over the last 4 or 5 years we worked through a lot of changes in underwriting guidelines increases in FICO scores.
So our job is to go build a product and adjust to the market whatever the financing is.
Our next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification on the gross margin.
Was about 30 basis points and a sequential improvement related to the 2.4 million Chinese drywall and then the rest of the variance was on lower construction warranty estimates? And then regarding those lower estimates was any of that a true-up that would impact future periods? Or is this just going to -- is this what explains the higher margin guidance you gave for coming quarters? The $2.4 million reimbursement does equate to around 30 basis points.
We did have some additional insurance recoveries during the quarter as well that contributed to that.
So the remainder of the 80 bps is an entirely due to changes in estimates.
I believe it's about 60 basis points were based on total insurance recoveries and 20 basis points were from a change in estimate.
And the changes in estimate relative from quarter to quarter do fluctuate somewhat but the largest contributor this quarter was our insurance recoveries.
And frankly as reflective of our attitude in our process of the corporate office of pursuing insurance recoveries based upon our insurance policies and the drywall Chinese drywall I know that we told you in previous conference calls over the years that we're going to aggressively pursue that and we have.
And we've had some nice the accomplishments.
And we do continue to pursue additional reimbursements.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just when we think about your incremental margins if you look at the improvement in growth in operating margins that we saw this quarter versus the 5% sequential revenue change is there a rule to think about or some way you could help us formulate what potential operating leverage is going forward on an incremental revenue growth? Generally when we look at our incremented revenue growth at least in the short term we look at SG&amp;A as a variable component.
And typically our SG&amp;A variable component will be somewhere in the 4% to 5% range of the increase in revenues.
So in the short run that's probably a rule of thumb to use.
Over the longer term there'll be some additional SG&amp;A that would need to be built to support a much larger volume level.
But that's the SG&amp;A leverage is the biggest portion of any leverage that we get from our growth.
And frankly we're controlling our SG&amp;A very nicely and we're very judicious in our new hires.
We want to make sure that the business the earnings are growing before we add the overhead.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Locker FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just first of all I guess in the Midwest orders up almost 50%.
I know it's a kind of odd reason for you but was that base mostly on absorptions or just maybe arising community count are counter trending the company? That's primarily based on absorptions off of a fairly low base a year ago.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just on a percentage of buyers in the second quarter that were -- had experienced some king of short sale or foreclosure in the last 2 or 3 years what percentage or do you have a rough number on that? We don't have an exact number but I can tell you as with visit with our salespeople across the country there are more and more of those people who are becoming available.
That's the -- I believe is a 3-year span.
And those buyers are coming back into the market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Would you say that's significantly more than a year ago on a percentage basis? Yes I would.
Our next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath of MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Don just to sort of try to summarize listening to your opening comments and then your answers to the Q&amp;A.
Is it fair to say your view of the overall market is that the housing market in the U.S.
is sort of flattish to stabilizing and most of your growth is coming from market share gains? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there anything you're kind of looking for? You've had a great read on the market in the last couple of years.
Are you still expecting overall U.S.
housing to be flattish this year? Or do you think that we're a little bit better than that now? I think we'll be a little bit better than that but not significantly.
And again you're right basically we continue to aggregate market share across the country as well as to drive down our directs as well as our keep our SG&amp;A low so that we can offer a quality very competitively priced product in the market.
And then also I want to continue to emphasize is that that move-up buyer is helping us grow our market share.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a quick follow-up on the DTA.
It sounds like from your comments that I don't know if this is what your account have told you that the DTA could come back on to the books in pieces gradually? By and large it will come on in one piece.
When you get to the level of confidence that you believe the asset is recoverable by and large it should come on in one piece.
The only exception to that will be to the extent that a portion of our NOLs that we're carrying forward relate to certain states in which the carryforward periods maybe rather short.
There may be some portions of our state NOLs that we may not feel that we will fully recover.
So there could be some portion that could be left in the balance sheet or the valuation allowance could be remaining for those portions.
Our next question comes from James McCanless with Guggenheim Partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question I had just going back to the FHA's seller concessions.
Can you all discuss how easy or how difficult it would be to transition somebody who might qualify under the old concession rule over the say a conforming mortgage with mortgage insurance behind it? The challenge there is and if you're looking at simply the seller concessions if you're looking at contributing 6% you're probably working with a buyer who doesn't have a significant amount of cash at closing and the FHA down payment is 3.5% whereas conventional mortgages is going to at least 5%.
So I'm not sure that trying to transition that person to conventional mortgage fully addresses the cash situation of that buyer.
And that's where we would work with the buyer then to help them understand exactly what's required in terms of cash at the point of closing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question just was wondering with the decline on the cam rate year-to-year is that a function of scrubbing potential buyers more closely now than you may have in the past? Or is that a function of the shift in the more move-up housing and move-up buyers who are bringing more cash and more equity at the table? If you could discuss that I would appreciate that? I think clearly the shift into the move-up buyers we are experiencing more buyers who are bringing more down payment to the table especially in markets like California where a number of our buyers have 20% down payments.
I think generally the answer to your question specifically on whether we're changing the way we're scrubbing our backlog absolutely not.
Standard procedure basically no changes whatsoever.
Our next question comes from Mike Widner of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm not the smartest guy on the block I was just hoping you could clarify once again for me on some of the 1x or kind of things that are included in the margins.
And if I understood you correctly it was about $2.4 million or 30 basis points in a drywall settlement.
And then you mentioned 60 basis points insured in insurance recovery so roughly $5 million or so.
So is it fair to say that between the 2 of them you have 90 basis points give or take that was kind of 1x in nature? And then I would presume that the changes in estimates that you talked about would be sort of an ongoing thing? Yes when we've been talking about the recoveries we've been speaking about the sequential change.
And so of our sequential change you have 80 basis points from Q1 to Q2 about 60 basis points of that is coming from the reimbursements which it is around $5 million in total of which $2.4 million related to Chinese drywall.
The remaining 20 basis points the remaining change is something that's just ongoing.
There's always some fluctuation from quarter-to-quarter based on activity in terms of our costs activity in terms of just the way some of our costs settle out and the way we have to adjust our estimates.
And frankly that's one of the reasons why we're indicating to you that we don't see a lot of pricing power available in any of our markets out there today.
There are few but not many.
And secondly why we led you to our 16.5% to 17.5% gross margin expectation for the second half of the year.
Clearly our forward expectations are to continue to improve gross profit but we don't want to mislead anybody as to what caused the sequential increase this quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So you guys have been through cycle or 2 here and you built a few houses over the past 4 decades or so.
I just wondering if you could talk not about what's going on right now but sort of from your experience both on a regional basis and now on a national basis you had this big pullback that just happened in the past again on sort of a regional basis.
I was just wondering if you've experienced the phenomenon before where at the bottom where a lot of private guys are still kind of reeling and they don't have access to the balance sheet capital that you guys do.
Did you have that opportunity to kind of -- you've the land you've got the capital you've got the ability to store or steal share at the bottom.
But as things progressed as those guys watched you stealing their market share I'm wondering how the challenge of them wanting to get back into the market and then watching what you're doing and figuring that hey it's time to start up in communities ourselves.
I mean how does that play out with your simultaneous hope to increase margins? And it seems like it would be very difficult to both increase margins as you hope to do as well as continue to increase market share as those guys are seeing that demand is coming back and trying harder to get back into the game themselves.
Just wondering if you could talk about how that's played out in the pass on a local basis? Well I think frankly this time around the private builders have been devastated more than they've been devastated.
Any previous downturn in this is for the nice fourth downturn in the industry.
I don't see the banks stepping up to lend money to those people today.
As a matter of fact I see just the opposite.
So I look at our markets and our submarkets across the country and the one thing that is consistent amongst almost all of those markets is that there are fewer and fewer public builders out builders who one are live and 2 if they are alive they actually can get a loan from bank who doesn't want to loan them any money.
So I think this is a unique downturn.
It has been unique for D.R.
Horton and myself.
This has been the worst downturn in our almost 29 years together.
I see an opportunity for us to continue to take market share not only away from those small and medium-sized undercapitalized private builders but I also believe and know for the very first time in our company's history that we have an excellent opportunity to continue market share away from our public competitors who I perceive are way overleveraged to us and permits us an opportunity to continue to aggressively take market share away from them.
Our next question comes from Stephen Kim of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Steve Kim from Barclays.
A question I had for you relates to your comment about not putting to price increases in most of your communities.
And then also -- but then also talking about positive mix shift.
I was curious as to whether or not the land that you are building your move-up product on is substantially the same as the land that you may have been building more of the entry-level type product on let's say last year or the year before.
Because it would seem to me that if you're able to put a richer mix on a similar land base that would be almost as good as the price increase but if you could just answer that broadly that will be great.
To answer your question directly we are not putting a more expensive house on the same price as the -- our entry-level lot prices so there's no real benefit there.
As we continue to expand into that entry-level market we're paying more for those lots than what we're paying for our entry-level products so there's really no enhancement there.
And I would say the other thing about the pricing that we can't forget in terms of pricing power is that one of still our major issues facing our industry are appraisals.
And notwithstanding the fact that we believe that we have a justification to raise prices in a number of our markets those pricing increases are slow simply because of competitive appraisals throughout the U.S.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
The second question I have for you relates to your comments about margin.
If you could share with us a little bit -- I'm sorry not margin but community count.
If you could share with us a little bit your view of how the community count is going to likely trend as we head into next year? You were talking about down 6% today but your sales have also been better-than-expected and so I'm actually been closing out on more communities that you would've otherwise have expected let's say late last year.
Today given that you're looking at a better sales profile and you have the balance sheet with which to grow would it be unrealistic of us to expect that if sales trends continue and you burn out of the same kind of rate that you're burning out today that your sales count could be -- you're selling community count could be up double digits next year? Well I hate to put a number on that Steve because really what we've done and what we’re going to do we have a division president's meeting here in Las Vegas next week and we've expressed to our divisions in our 4 regions our growth expectations for them in '13 '14 and '15.
So basically what they're going to be doing is going out and finding lots and land positions in order to meet their respective growth expectations that we have here.
So I don't see -- it could be a double-digit it could to be a single digit.
But let's remember one thing the best thing that could happen to us is to continue to achieve higher sales and higher closings of our existing communities because certainly we have enough lots in our communities.
We have enough lots on our books.
And to the extent that we can penetrate those existing communities deeper and that's better for us on a SG&amp;A component and the gross margin component.
And as we look to invest and as we look to grow certainly we want to grow incrementally but as long as we also stay disciplined as far as how we invest stay disciplined on our land supply and on our return thresholds on a project-by-project basis that's what will improve our company not simply focusing on the top line growth.
As I said earlier our focus is on growth but our bigger focus is on profitability.
We need to continue to grow our gross margin and our pretax income percentages.
Our next question comes from Alex Barrón of Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> My question is we've seen I guess a strong improvement in the orders in the last 2 3 months as you mentioned or 2.5 months.
And so my view is that a lot of communities have started to perhaps sell-out earlier than expected which I guess is a good problem to have.
But my question is are you guys starting to also see some cost pressures and perhaps are you thinking you should accelerate your land purchases earlier? And are you starting to see cost pressures from materials and labor and land prices? Well we've consistently seen cost pressures from the land and lot side as well as most importantly our subcontractor and our vendor base.
So it's a division-by-division as we call it release-by-release bidding process an aggressive bidding process.
As I said earlier we are building more homes and starting more homes than anybody in the U.S.
We bid every release.
And we want to make certain that we have the most competitive pricing at that point in time.
We're going to have commodities going up and we're going to have labor going up but the bottom line goal has always been at this company is how we balance those with increases and decreases such that we end up with the most competitive direction in the market.
Again our size and our number of starts I think leads us to a very competitive position relative to our peers.
As I travel the country I just don't see a lot of our peers even today starting a lot of houses.
So we're the preponderance of starts in most of our markets.
LLC</strong> Great absolutely.
My other question was if you start to see the number of buyers remain at a strong phase is your view more towards just taking the volume on a per community basis? Or is it more to raise the price and kind of put an upside on the sales per community? And related to that what are your views on selling homes investors? Well frankly over the last 5 years we'll sell homes to anyone.
Frankly what we're focusing on is selling homes to families who are not investors basically people who are buying homes for a good place to raise their children and send their children to school.
And we're always looking to try to strike the best balance community by community between driving additional volume and improving our prices or reducing our incentives.
Sometimes we're constrained by appraisals in the submarket but in general we're trying to strike that best balance.
Right now we clearly would love to see more absorptions per community.
But we want to see that with some improving dynamics in terms of our incentives and our pricing as well.
Clearly we can grow the business from a number of different aspects whether adding new communities whether of rolling options whether we're penetrating our existing communities deeper or whether we're developing land and lots.
We've got the whole wide expanse out there of opportunities.
We just hope that the sales and the closings continue to be what they have been since the 1st of February because that will provide this company really the preeminent opportunity in the industry to continue to grow profitably.
Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall with RBC Capital Markets.
This is Dezi [ph] filling in for Bob.
You said your capture rate was 60% for the quarter.
Can you talk about your experiences with home buyers who chose to go with a different mortgage lender? And how that impacted cancellation rate in the quarter? And whether you expect the capture rate to increase going forward? Since we have very strong capture rate with our captive mortgage company we really haven't noticed a substantial impact on our aggregated closings in any given quarter because of any follow-up from other mortgage companies.
Typically if we're not working with DHI Mortgage in a given market that division will be working with other preferred lenders and have a tight working relationship to manage the backlog through.
So we haven't really had that kind of a fall-off in our business.
And I think as Stacey mentioned earlier as I asked the same question in our pre-conference call our 60% capture rate has a lot to do with the fact that our mortgage company is also pursuing non-captive business.
So sometimes those numbers are skewed slightly by the number of non-captive buyers they solicit and are able to garner in a specific quarter.
And since our cancellation rate actually improved in this quarter down 22% we're not running into any significant hurdles even with our outside lenders right now.
Our next question comes from Timothy Jones of Moloney.
Okay other than orders D.R.'s favorite number is SG&amp;A in sales I believe.
And you did keep your SG&amp;A flat with $200 billion increase in sales and brought your margins down 4%.
But there's still 13.7% [ph] which is even for this quarter probably 250 basis points of I think your norm.
Is it that your -- is it still high because you're expecting a further improvement in upcoming months? Or are you getting hit with that normal amount of sales by realtors which are where are -- where the margin would cost you about 3% versus 1.5% internally? We haven't talked in a while and I guess as just -- as Todd Horton [ph] says so eloquently "No good deed should go unpunished." We continue to have the lowest -- some of the lowest SG&amp;A in the industry and we include our corporate overhead in our overall.
But we still get questions about our SG&amp;A.
But to answer your question directly yes that is a focus of the D.R.'s.
But I'll let Bill perhaps explain or answer your question since I really just didn't answer your question.
Year-to-date our SG&amp;A expense is 13.5% of revenues.
That is higher than our long-term target.
Our long-term target is to have it as close to 10% as we can.
There's a lot of targets that we're not quite at today.
We're not at normal margin rate either.
So we have certainly kept our some level of SG&amp;A infrastructure that will support some higher volume as evidenced this quarter when our closings were up 21% and SG&amp;A was only up 3%.
We've also maintained our footprint across the United States.
We haven't exited a lot of markets.
And so we are in well-positioned to be able to grow and leverage that SG&amp;A.
We expect as we're able to reinvest in the business use some of our cash to grow our business and we would leverage that SG&amp;A and it will drop as we grow.
And hopefully we can get it back closer to that long-term target of 10%.
And I think Bill makes an excellent point there.
If you look at everyone else's footprint most people have shrunk their footprint much more dramatically then we.
And our goal all along was keep our footprint the same but then take down our multiple divisions in each one of our various markets to the lowest common denominator that we could get to.
And they're ready to grow.
One clarification to you to Tim.
For D.R.
Horton the external sales commissions are actually in our cost of sales not in our SG&amp;A.
and I just want to know if D.R.
put you up to that question.
No comment.
But I am in contact with your company quite often.
Secondly where is your warrants? I mean they're still outstanding aren't they? Where are they on the balance sheet? Convertible debt? Yes it is in our debt and the current carrying value is around $432 million.
Still your debt? Yes $432 million is in our debt.
The face value of those notes is $500 million.
So the remainder of $68 million is equity today and that's the value of associated with the convert.
And that is being accreted each quarter out of equity and into debt.
So by the time that debt matures in 2014 we'll be at $500 million debt on the balance sheet.
You could turn it to cash tomorrow.
It's in the money.
Well it's not callable in advance of the maturity date.
So we can't make that decision or let transaction until 2014.
But clearly yes the price is 1306 [ph] the strike price of 1306 [ph] so as long as we take care of business here then we should be in good shape.
What's the interest on it? 2%.
I'll take it.
I think you can buy it in the open new market.
I'll take it from your side not my side.
It is trading at a significant premium.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back to the idea of expecting a little less in your backlog I believe than previously.
Is that just purely driven by the shift a little bit more towards move-up? Because I would think all else equal you wouldn't necessarily be moving away in any regard from your spec approach in the market? Actually it's interesting you ask that question because it's really due to our more conservative nature.
We had -- we started the quarter with 56% specs.
Our goal was to try to get that number reduced back down to closer to 50% and we did.
So it's just a function I believe of largely not having started as many homes as we could've started simply because our spec ratio was a little high and we wanted to see those specs come down.
And frankly what happened was the spring selling season materialized and that caused our primarily our reduction in our specs.
But as I said before construction cycles are currently some of the shortest in the history of the company since I've been here.
And our ability to put a house on the ground and get it ready for a buyer is the best we've ever had.
We do typically see our spec percentage sequentially from December to March because we do have home started prior to the selling season but then we sell during the March quarter.
But I think we did a little bit better job of selling-through that this quarter than we have in the last 3 years.
And frankly that has been a focus of both Bill Wheat and Mike Murray with our division presence and our regional presence clearly identifying who needed to move what age inventory or what point in time.
And they actually over the last quarter did an excellent job on that.
Our next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko of SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I did want to get your thoughts on land pricing maybe quarter-to-quarter year-to-year in the markets that are working.
And wondering how much moving on this option increasing the option mix over the last couple of quarters moving to a higher trade up mix over the last couple of quarters? How much of that strategy is tied to land pricing that you're seeing in the better markets? Basically I think that all of the lots that we're buying are more competitively priced than what they have been in the past.
In other words I think that the land sellers are trying to get more for their lots than what they had 2 years ago and 3 years ago because there has been some months of improvement in the industry.
So I think we're going to continue to fight that on a go-forward basis.
One of the things that helps keep the lid on that though is the land prices are constrained by what we can sell the home for.
And so when we’re targeting a specific gross margin and return on our investment and we know what our fixed cost are they basically use a residual that we're not willing to pay about a certain dollar for the land.
And it's further constrained by the fact that we still have appraisal issues across the country.
So again I say there's not a lot of pricing power in the industry today.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you very much.
Again I thank all the DHI employees who quarterly turned in an outstanding quarter.
You continue to outperform all of your peers market by market subdivision by subdivision and we look forward to a very successful second half of fiscal year '12 and look forward to a profitable years ahead.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Donald Tomnitz President and CEO.
Thank you you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Vice President and Controller.
Before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? D.R.
Horton posted its highest quarterly pretax income since the second quarter of fiscal 2007 the highest in the industry earning $72 million this quarter and $144 million year-to-date.
Our pretax operating profit margin for the third quarter was 6.3% the highest since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.
For the 10th consecutive year we are the largest builder in the United States based on homes closed.
Our net sales orders improved 25% from our third quarter last year and 3% sequentially from the March quarter.
Our average sales price increased during the quarter driving a 32% increase in the value of net sales orders compared to the year-ago quarter.
We've seen solid positive year-over-year sales comparisons continue into July.
Our sales this quarter resulted in a 31% increase in our backlog units and a 40% increase in backlog value compared to the prior year which puts us in a strong position for increased revenue and profitability in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.
In response to our sales growth we're putting our liquidity to work by increasing our investments in homes under construction finished lots land and lot development.
These investments are fueling our profitable growth even though macroeconomic conditions remain soft and overall housing demand is at historically low levels.
We are finding opportunities to take market share in existing markets while evaluating attractive new submarkets.
Our entry-level business remains strong while we continue to expand our product offerings for move-up buyers.
Bill? In the third quarter our homebuilding operations generated pretax income of $58.3 million compared to $22.2 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our financial services operations generated pretax income of $13.9 million compared to $6.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our net income for the quarter increased to $787.8 million or $2.22 per diluted share which included a noncash tax benefit of $716.7 million from a reduction of the valuation allowance for our deferred tax asset.
We will discuss the valuation allowance reduction in more detail later in our prepared remarks.
Our diluted share count this quarter included 38.3 million shares related to our convertible senior notes.
When these shares are dilutive they are added to the diluted EPS denominator and the associated interest expense and amortized issuance costs are added back to net income to calculate diluted EPS.
For these shares and the related costs to be included in our diluted EPS in the fourth quarter we estimate that our net income would need to be approximately $85 million.
Mike? Our third quarter home sales revenue increased 14% to $1.1 billion on 4 957 homes closed up from $974.5 million on 4 555 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was up 5% compared to the prior year and up 2.5% sequentially to $225 000.
In the fourth quarter we expect that our backlog conversion rate will be in the high 70s to 85% range.
Don? Net sales however for the third quarter were up 25% from last year to 6 079 homes a 5% decrease in active selling communities.
Our average sales price on net sales orders of $232 300 was up 6% compared to the prior year quarter and up 4% sequentially.
Our cancellation rate for the third quarter was 23% which is very close to our predownturn cancellation rate range of 17% to 21%.
Our sales backlog at June 30 2012 increased 31% from the prior year to 7 311 homes.
The value of the backlog increased 40% to $1.7 billion from $1.2 billion a year ago.
With 7 311 homes in backlog and continued year-over-year improvement in sales through the first part of July we expect stronger closings and pretax profits in the fourth quarter both sequentially and compared to the prior year.
Bill? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenues in the third quarter was 18% up 150 basis points from the year-ago period.
130 basis points of the increase was due to decreased incentives and discounts and increased average selling prices and 50 basis points of the increase was due to lower amortized interest and property taxes.
These increases were partially offset by a 30 basis point decrease due to higher estimated cost for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenue.
Our expectation for fourth quarter home sales gross margin is around 18% consistent with the third quarter.
Stacey? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter which includes corporate overhead was $136 million or 12.2% of homebuilding revenues compared to $114 million or 11.7% of homebuilding revenues in the prior-year quarter.
The SG&amp;A category that increased the most as a percentage of revenue was incentive compensation reflecting our significantly higher revenues profitability and share price versus a year ago.
For the 9 months ended June 30 2012 homebuilding SG&amp;A expense was $383 million or 13% of homebuilding revenues compared to $356 million or 14.4% of homebuilding revenues in the prior-year period.
In our fourth quarter absolute SG&amp;A expense will increase due to variable components.
However we expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenue will improve both sequentially and year-over-year as we close more homes and leverage our fixed cost structure.
Mike? Homebuilding interest expense was down 39% from the year-ago quarter to $6.2 million.
Our third quarter homebuilding interest incurred improved slightly to $31.1 million from $31.4 million a year ago even after issuing an additional $350 million of senior notes in May.
Our capitalized interest balance at June 30 totaled $81.2 million.
Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $13.9 million.
84% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations.
Our mortgage company handled the financing for 60% of our homebuyers this quarter with virtually all loans meeting eligibility requirements for sale to Fannie Mae Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 55% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter down from 62% in the year-ago quarter.
Our mortgage company's new borrowers during the quarter had an average FICO score of 708 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 91%.
First time homebuyers represented 54% of the closings handled by our mortgage company this quarter.
Bill? We reduced our deferred tax asset valuation allowance by $716.7 million this quarter.
This reduction was based on our evaluation of both positive and negative evidence in which we determined that it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient income in future periods to realize the substantial majority of our deferred tax assets.
The positive evidence included our 5 consecutive quarters of pretax income the strong profitability and sales both the current quarter and the fiscal year-to-date period and an increased backlog which positions us for increased income in our fourth quarter.
In addition with our solid balance sheet reduced debt and interest cost ample liquidity and growing inventory we expect to be able to sustain and increase our pretax income in future years.
Even if our future pretax income remains flat with current year levels we estimate that we will utilize all of our federal net operating losses in less than 5 years.
The negative evidence included the losses we incurred during the housing downturn the current weakness in the economy historic low levels of activity in the housing market the restrictive mortgage lending environment and our lower-than-normal gross margins.
One of the most significant pieces of negative evidence that existed in prior periods a 3-year cumulative loss position is not as significant now as we are in a 3-year cumulative income position at June 30.
We concluded that the positive evidence outweighed the negative evidence and we reduced the DTA valuation allowance by $716.7 million.
Our remaining valuation allowance of $78.4 million relates to 2 factors.
First certain state net operating loss carryforwards may not be realized due to shorter carryforward periods in those states.
Second a portion of the valuation allowance reduction has been allocated to our expected fourth quarter income.
We expect to reduce this portion of the valuation allowance next quarter resulting in minimal income tax on our fourth quarter income statement.
Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 we expect to report income tax expense at a tax rate of 38% to 38.5%.
Until we have utilized our NOLs the majority of the tax expense recorded will not require cash but will reduce the carrying value of our DTA.
Stacey? Since March our total inventory increased by approximately $228 million excluding noncash items reflecting a $133 million increase in homes and inventory and a $95 million increase in our investments in residential land and lots.
Our homes and inventory at the end of June totaled 12 200 homes up 1 100 homes for March.
As of June 30 1 100 of our homes were models 5 600 were speculative homes and 2 100 of the specs were completed.
During the quarter we sold our spring inventory and grew our backlog improving our spec percentage to 46% from 50% at March 31.
Don? Our third fiscal quarter investments in land lots and development costs totaled $389 million that reflects our ability to find new communities replenish our finished lots supply.
During the first 9 months of the fiscal year we spent $938 million on land lots and development costs which is up from $582 million in the same period of the prior year.
We continue to purchase our option finished lots in many markets and are also selectively investing in land acquisition and development opportunities to ensure we have adequate lot supplies in desirable markets.
At June 30 2012 we control approximately 131 000 lots of which 90 000 are owned and 41 000 are optioned.
Our owned lots include 23 000 finished lots and 24 000 lots to be developed within the next 12 to 18 months.
Our optioned lots consist of 25 000 finished lots and 16 lots that we expect to purchase and develop within the next 12 to 18 months bringing our minimum pipeline of finished lots over the next 2 years to 88 000 which is up 13% from the second quarter and 24% from a year ago.
Mike? We used $95 million of cash in operations in the June quarter primarily due to increases in homes and inventory and residential land and lots offset by pretax income and an increase in accounts payable.
We ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of homebuilding unrestricted cash and marketable securities.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at June 30 was $1.9 billion.
Our next maturity is approximately $1.72 billion in May of 2013.
At June 30 our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash and marketable securities improved 160 basis points to 18.3% compared to 19.9% a year ago.
Gross homebuilding leverage at June 30 improved 470 basis points to 35.8%.
Don? Thank you.
Fiscal year '12 has been a pivotal year for our company in which we reestablished our industry-leading profit levels and began to take advantage of the flexibility provided by our strong balance sheet.
We transitioned from defense to offense raising new capital investing our cash in the business improving our operating margin and growing our profits.
We believe these are the initial stages of long-term growth for D.R.
Horton.
D.R.
and I would like to personally thank our employees for their hard work and accomplishments.
You've kept us in the #1 builder slot for the past 10 years.
We are better positioned than we've ever been in my 29 years with D.R.
Horton.
We're excited by the opportunities we see in fiscal 2013 and beyond.
And as I always say as I travel around and meet all of our sales people kick tail.
This concludes our prepared remarks and I'll host any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering I think your last comment there about sort of the directions to the employees there in terms of kicking tails is interesting.
In terms of that I guess how does that relate to thoughts on the backlog conversion? And how much of that is a function in terms of specs versus the constructions? Is there much that you can do in terms of working on that one for fiscal '13 if you can provide a little more color on that.
Sure Dan.
One of the things that we look at on our backlog conversion is really just going back predownturn.
And our expectations will trend back to the backlog conversion rates that we've traditionally seen.
And those rates would typically be between about 55% and 65% in quarters 1 through 3 and then quarter 4 could be up into the 70% possibly into the low 70% range.
We've been in an accelerated backlog conversion rate because our spec levels have been higher.
As we went through the downturn we had a higher level of completed specs than we currently have and so those were available for a very quick sale and quick close in the same quarter.
We would expect that to begin to slow down a little bit as we focused on reducing our completed specs.
And the other thing we're seeing is more build to order.
Sales come in and those typically stay in backlog a little bit longer because we actually work through the permitting process people selecting their options before we begin the construction on the home.
And so our expectation is for Q4 that the backlog will still remain in the high 70s to the 85% range but going into next year we are going to actually see that continue to trend down a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I guess the second question is.
Relating to that you talked about bringing down some specs more build-to-order and a lot of other builders talking about more pricing power as you think about the pure specs and more build-to-order and potentially pricing depending on your focus there versus the orders.
How are you thinking about margins as you're looking forward in a potential for some -- further improvement over the course of the year? First of all I would say too that we are not going to be decreasing our spec level from our historical levels.
Typically we're running somewhere between 50% to 60% specs depending on which quarter of the year it is and we anticipate that we will increase our specs in the first calendar quarter of fiscal year '12 in anticipation of the selling season which historically starts in the second quarter.
Clearly we moved a lot of older specs this quarter which was a remarkable accomplishment.
It was even more a remarkable accomplishment that we increased our gross margin while we moved those older specs.
But on a historical basis our build-to-order business has been a higher margin business for us so as we transition into fiscal year '13 I anticipate that we will have some upside in our margins just simply because of the mix change in build-to-order versus spec and also combined with the fact that we've gotten rid of a lot of older specs that -- and cleansed our spec backlog.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I want to go to the comments you made right at the beginning of the call Don in terms of increasing investment trying to take share looking at potential new submarkets.
And I think you also said expanding the move-up buyer segment.
Looking now at those statements as a whole is that something that we should take to expect in acceleration in community count growth in 2013? Absolutely.
We continue even though we're closing more homes than anyone else in the industry and we were able to add to our lot supply as we indicated in the most recent quarter.
We clearly are going to be buying land and developing lots where it makes economic sense for us.
Fortunately in a lot of our markets we're still able to execute option contracts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the comments you just made around spec and going back earlier to comments around move-up it seems like historically you guys have -- a healthy part of the business for you and I think one of the core competencies for you as a company is your comfort level with spec as a part of the business.
Is this shift towards more build-to-order something that's just more temporary? And maybe you could put into perspective how spec is going to be as a percent of the business in 2013 versus 2012 and maybe historically.
Clearly our build-to-order business is being driven by our customers.
There are a number of people who are coming in who are either retirees or they're buying their third home.
And clearly their desire is of having their home their way that's what we're accommodating.
On a go forward basis though as I said earlier we are going to continue to maintain and as you said we are comfortable we have always been a spec builder and we are comfortable with our specs.
We will continue to maintain depending upon which quarter of the year it is a spec ratio somewhere of 50% to 60%.
Research Division</strong> And so how would that compare against 2012 then? Well in 2012 the percentages really haven't changed frankly even during the downturn because there are period of time last year in 2012 certainly in 2011 where we were running 61% 62% specs.
So it just all depends upon what we see in the marketplace.
And one of the things that has brought us to where we are today is we were willing during the downturn to put our specs out there and have homes available especially we saw that pretax credit and those are one of the things that led us to having such a successful '11 or '10 was having the homes on the market to take advantage of the tax credit when our competition really did not.
Our next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question has to do with the financial services business and specifically the capture rate.
And what I'm trying to get an idea about is folks who don't use your mortgage product.
Do you have any visibility on why they do or don't use the mortgage product? And how that group maybe just some color on -- from a statistics or metrics standpoint what the credit quality of that group looks like? Why they choose to go outside to a different mortgage vendor and how the process actually works? Well a number of our buyers come in preapproved by some other mortgage company and that's one of the major drivers of someone not using our mortgage company.
We also have an association with the SAA where basically they are also offering their mortgage company to our buyers.
And many of their -- all of their buyers are military or ex-military buyers and they offer an incentive for their buyers to use their mortgage company.
Our mortgage company has always been in the business of absolutely competing with the competition.
They don't really have any upside they don't really have any downside.
They're just out there on a daily basis having to earn our business.
So to the extent that someone must use an outside mortgage company that's fine with us.
Research Division</strong> Just to make sure I understand is it fair to conclude that you don't think the folks that are going to outside mortgage providers have a better credit profile than folks who are going to your internal mortgage provider? We don't necessarily have a clear visibility into that David but I would be surprised at this point.
I mean mortgage standards are pretty consistent across all of mortgage products right now especially ones that are backed by the governmental industries and that tends to be the majority of the market.
One other factor that impacts our capture rate is we don't have our mortgage company in every homebuilding market where we operate.
So there's certain segments of our business that we just won't capture.
And certainly I don't think if you're inferring that perhaps the people who use our mortgage company have lesser credit qualification that's not the case.
And if you look at the solid results of our mortgage company in a great view millions of dollars they've had to reserve against billions of dollars of mortgages they have issued over the year.
The quality of our buyer going to our mortgage company is extraordinarily high.
Research Division</strong> And I wasn't trying to infer anything I just want to understand.
Just double checking.
Research Division</strong> Yes exactly.
I wouldn't make any inferences.
Certainly not.
My follow-up question.
I wanted to delve a little bit more into this whole concept of looking into new markets.
And I'm wondering if we can kind of go over the analysis besides performance and think about new markets what are the kind of puts and takes on the decision-making process? What makes a market attractive? What makes it less attractive kind of just give us more of a view on how you're thinking about it.
Well largely it's -- that's dependent on our regional presence because obviously they spend a lot more time in those specific markets than D.R.
and I do.
Although D.R.
and I clearly bless every one of the new markets that we enter but clearly what we're looking for is an opportunity to go -- when we go into a new market is to make a major -- take a major position in that market.
Typically the market is underserved by a production builder or not served by a production builder at all where we can go in and actually provide the homebuyers in that market with a more competitive house and a better built house with a better margin.
So one of the things that we focused on at Horton over the last couple of years is moving into what I call ancillary markets or tertiary markets and I have another name for them which I won't use for in the conference call but they're smaller markets.
And I think with our low overhead we can go in and take lot position so they're smaller than many other builders and to be able to offer the buyers in that market an extremely competitive value.
And I think you're seeing that in a number of markets where we have gone into in the Carolinas and in Florida where we don't find competition for many other builders certainly not production builders Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could comment on your community count change.
I know you won't give the actual community count number but it was down 5%.
Obviously that's a high-class problem because you've been selling a lot of houses and I understand that.
At the same time I was wondering if you had an internal goal or a target to significantly ramp up your communities as you head into next year.
And if so how you gauge that or how we should be looking at that in terms -- is it in terms of just the gross number of communities that you expect to open? Or is there a sort of a net year-over-year number that we can think about? The way we look at new community count is each one of our division presidents and each one of their markets are charged with how do they become the #1 builder in their market all the while focusing on our #1 goal which is profitability.
So as I tell each one of our division presidents and the role they're taking is how do we tie up and contract for any and all lot positions in that market that makes sense for us to build that product and if it's a profitable transaction for us.
So we're trying to expand our subdivisions in each one of our markets as aggressively as the business will support.
Clearly with our increase in investments in land and our increases in our option lot positions.
We are targeting increases in our overall community count.
You are correct that with our increased sales this year we have probably rolled out of more communities than we might have anticipated at the start of the year so the net count has not increased quite as much as we had maybe originally planned but with the increased investments we expect to be growing our community count sequentially as we move in to 2015.
Some of those community counts are relative Steve.
Basically some markets are a lot easier to sign up contracts on finished lots or option lots or even land deals which take less risk and less capital than other markets like California in particular.
That market seems to me from a land perspective is overheated right now and it takes big dollars and there's a higher risk given the state of California's economy.
We're trying to choose land and lot positions in low-risk areas to provide us the best return.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the appraisal situation in the industry.
I think when I spoke with you last time you had indicated that that was an ongoing annoyance but it was still something that was weighing it seemed fairly heavily on your assessment of the overall market conditions.
I was curious if you could give us a sense for whether that's still your view that the appraisal process is a meaningful impediment or if you've seen some amelioration in that regard.
We wouldn't call that a meaningful impediment.
We do still continue to see challenges with the valuations on appraisals more specifically with the VA loans than with other loan products.
And there are a handful of markets that seem to have more ongoing challenges than some other markets.
But generally it's just an ongoing annoyance but not a huge impediment.
In fact I think as you begin to see and who knows whether the calcs are right or not but as people begin to report some increase in average sales prices or median prices in various markets that's going to solve the appraisal issue substantially for all builders.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I think you mentioned a 5-year recovery on your DTA.
Was that one of your assumptions? If our income remains flat with fiscal 2012 levels we expect to be able to recover our federal NOL carryforwards.
That's a portion of our DTA.
Our federal NOL carryforwards will capture that in less than 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Just for housekeeping what portion of the $716 million is that? It's between $200 million and $300 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's a pretty small piece.
It would be the second largest piece in the DTA.
Research Division</strong> Well yes.
So given the fact that you have relatively low net leverage today you're optioning your land finished and/or otherwise.
When do you think you're going to be able to get back to a more -- and it sounds like you're more confident obviously.
When do you think you're going to get back to a more effective rate of leverage given that you're tying up these lands through options.
And if you're not going to be targeting a 40% let's say net debt to cap what are you going to be doing with the capital? I can tell you right now we're really comfortable with our net debt to cap Ken.
And our focus is on how we continue to grow the business without increasing our leverage significantly.
We have a lot of flexibility obviously right now.
If the market's there and the demand is there we have the ability to invest a lot with our balance sheet both in our liquidity right now and the ability to add additional debt in the future.
But right now we're increasing our investment significantly and our leverage is still holding in there at a pretty low level.
Of course going forward we also plan on making a lot of money and to the extent that we generate a lot of profits in the future that adds to our equity which helps keep our leverage in balance as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the second question I have when you talked about sequentially your gross margins went up a bit but could you give us a bit kind of the sequential -- I mean if you were getting rid of your finished spec depletion what was that kind of drag sequentially given that I think broadly we're seeing incentives decline sequentially which has helped builders' gross margins move up? And you guided at 18% gross margin in 4Q.
Is that -- why wouldn't we see a little more lift sequentially? And how much of the land is new -- the spread? Sure.
On the sequential increase it was about 40 bps from Q2 to Q3.
The entire amount of that increase is due to pure core margin improvements attributable to fewer discounts some increases in average selling prices that we've been able to implement in some of our markets.
And so it's just a very simple improvement in core margin.
Specs are always a portion of that but as Don mentioned earlier we have reduced our -- some of our aged completed specs and we're starting to see improved margins on our specs this quarter relative to some prior periods in the past.
And a lot of that has frankly to do with the low new home inventory basically.
Across the nation we're down to 4.7 months supply of new homes.
We have pricing power in a number of our markets not as significant as what we had back in '04 and '05 but I'm not sure we need to get back to that point.
But nevertheless we are having pricing power in most of our markets which is improving our gross margins.
And obviously we sound -- we certainly sound more confident in our guidance on margins today because our trend has been positive here for a couple of quarters and the driver of the improved margin is truly based on our core operations.
So that's what's driving our guidance to be able to hold the margins that we have today.
But clearly our goals are to continue to improve margins over and above the 18% we reported this quarter.
Our company goal has always been 20% gross margins.
We're working toward that but we're not going to be tell you we're going to be there next quarter but we're working on it.
Our next question comes from the line of Will Randow with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on your SG&amp;A level.
When we talked in the past you talked that -- you mentioned you want to run it around 10% as your goal as a percentage of housing sales.
However you're running in low teens because you cut it quite a bit.
Is there a potential to get below 10% in the next couple of years if we continue to see this recovery? That would be a stretch.
We would expect we'll be in the -- we'll be in the 12s this year which is going to be a good improvement versus last year.
As we continue to add volume we clearly have more room to leverage our SG&amp;A infrastructure on the fixed cost side and so we would expect to continue driving that down.
But our company goal remains at around 10%.
We have had some short periods in the past when we've been below 10% but those have typically been periods and we've seen significant selling price increases that have driven that.
But to the extent we're able to drive it towards 10% that will be in line with our targets.
Research Division</strong> And then on kind of the first-time homebuyers statement as well as the lending environment.
Given your lower average ASP you might be targeting call it the slightly less affluent buyer for lack of a better term.
So really how do you open up that segment of the market? And do you plan to get heavier into the first-time homebuyer? Yes.
Right now we are very concentrated with the first-time homebuyer.
We've typically been running between about 50% and 55% of our business to the first-time homebuyer.
In terms of opening it up that's been actually the most consistent part of the homebuyer population and one of the things that we're looking to do is not necessarily to decrease the number of homes and the number of first-time homebuying customers that we have but rather to increase incrementally the product that we have available and the number of people who are buying more of a move-up product.
So our goal is actually for that percentage to work its way back down closer to the 35% to 40% historical range as we see the higher end of the market recovering.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious because obviously some of the harder-hit markets on the lower income side of things than most but appreciate the color.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> In one of the answers to a previous question you mentioned getting some pricing power in some of your markets and if I recall from last quarter I feel like the tone was a little bit different.
So I was wondering if I was interpreting that correctly if you think that sequentially the markets changed and you've gained some power for the last quarter's earnings? Yes we do clearly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And secondly I just wanted to clarify some of the comments made in the opening statements about the SG&amp;A.
You mentioned that the fourth quarter should be higher on an absolute basis.
I was wondering if that was sequentially higher or year-over-year higher.
And I was also wondering if you could just clarify that if most of the year-over-year increase this year was that solely incentive-based comp that you mentioned? We will see an increase both sequentially and year-over-year as we'll have a higher activity level more homes closing more revenue and that results in more sales commission and more activities around the home construction.
But we'll also see a bigger piece of that increase being incentive compensation both to increase revenues profitability as well as share price adjusting some accruals.
LLC Research Division</strong> To be clear the main driver of the year-over-year increase this year would you -- is incentive-based comp or were there any other factors that you should call out? That was by far the largest portion of it and it's simply a matter of the significant profitability we have year-to-date this year and last year at this point.
We were not profitable on a year-to-date basis.
So that's a huge swing.
Our next question comes from the line of Joshua Pollard with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Typical seasonality in your orders and deliveries you guys have the September year end so things can be a little bit funky for you.
I'm ultimately trying to understand your net absorption rate in the quarter were about 2.2 per month.
How much should we see that go down q-on-q as we move into your fourth quarter and then again into your first quarter for '13 based on typical seasonality? Yes Josh we can pull that up and I can get back with you and kind of see what we've done historically.
You're absolutely right though our seasonal trend is that the March quarter and the June quarter are usually pretty similar within a few basis points then we'd see our sales trend down into the September quarter down a little bit more into December and then start back up in the spring selling season into the March quarter.
And I'll follow-up with you in terms of kind of historically what percentage we see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In replacement of that question can I ask what your year-on-year growth through July is? You talked about it being still robust but I'd love to get a little bit more clarity and understand whether or not you guys expect your year-on-year order growth to begin to slow in the back half of the year.
Well in terms of the year-on-year order growth we haven't actually seen the end of July yet so we'd prefer not to comment.
But while we would expect the absolute orders to go down we'll see what happens with the year-over-year order growth.
Because even with a decline in orders it could still hang in there very strongly.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if could ask one additional one.
The orders in the north were up only 2%.
Can you just dig into each of the states in that market and just give us a view of what's going on? It seems like the housing market is improving a lot but this north and northeast seems to not be doing as well.
Well clearly our position in the north is small and frankly if you take a look at the markets in our north region they're small and they continue to be weak.
And so as a result it's an insignificant number really but those markets have been hit a lot harder and they are slow to recover.
And largely if you take a look at some of them have high unemployment still and their state economies are weak.
Our next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask also about the mortgage environment.
You indicated about 84% of the mortgage the originations were from D.R.
Horton homebuyers.
What percent historically have you originated from non-D.R.
Horton homebuyers? There has been a pretty good range on that Jade and a lot of it has to do with the amount of refinance that's going on in any individual quarter.
We've probably ranged between maybe 5% to 20% would be outside business.
One of the things that we do like to focus on though is increasing that non-captive business even beyond the refi business because that helps us leverage the overhead structure in those markets.
So that is one of the focus points for the mortgage company is to continue to look at the outside business.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow up on that.
The gain on sale margins are pretty elevated right now given the refi boom we're seeing as well as the HARP 2.0 program.
Are you seeing -- presumably you're seeing a benefit from that.
Can you just comment on the sustainability of the margins you showed this quarter? Yes.
Clearly the improved gain on sale as part of the increase in margins this quarter in financial services with a 40% operating margin.
That's at the high end of our historical range and clearly higher than where we have been more recently.
I would say a more typical operating margin over the long term would be more in the 30% range -- 30% to 35% perhaps so 40% was a bit higher than usual.
Our next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask about your debt offering.
You folks have been reluctant to add expenses interest expenses in the past so I was a little bit surprised to see the debt deal especially considering the amount of cash you guys have on hand.
You got obviously plenty of cash solid cash position.
So I just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
Does your -- overcome -- reluctance to add this interest expense so that looks that you're going to kind of be stepping on the accelerator in terms of growth.
Do you expect that to put to work sooner rather than later is that -- what was behind the thinking of that deal? I think it was clearly an opportunistic approach to the debt market at the time.
Certainly the coupon was extraordinarily low.
Are we going to step on the accelerator? We are moderating the accelerator.
One of our focuses still at this company is to underwrite land and lot deals specifically the ones we have to cash out and our underwriting guidelines are pretty specific.
We desire right now to get our capital back within 24 months.
We do have some deals we are proving that are greater than 24 months but we're very focused on not overextending our land and lot position to an excessive number of years to get our capital back.
So we are -- just to be clear we are optimistic about the housing market today but we're also realizing that the U.S.
economy is still weak and so I wouldn't say we're stepping on any accelerator.
We're just adjusting to each market and trying to take profitable market share from our competitors.
And then you are right that we had been reluctant to add interest expense to the company.
And I think this reflects that we have more confidence in our ability to generate profits and cover that incremental interest expense than we may have had in the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great.
And second question on your orders.
Your year-over-year order performance relative to the group has lagged the past say 4 quarters or so by about 10 or 15 percentage points.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on that.
Would we expect to see some closing of that gap going forward? Well as one of my favorite division presidents Todd Horton always says no good deed shall go unpunished.
Clearly we outperformed everyone during the downturn and so obviously we have a much higher comp as we go through each quarter relative to our peers who performed much more poorly than we during the downturn.
So as a result we are continuing to focus on growing the company but again we're focusing on growing the company in a profitable manner.
We began growing our sales sooner which got us to profitability sooner.
Now we have much more substantial profits and we plan on growing on that.
And we expect substantial sales increases in the future.
We're focused on our sales.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Barron with Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to understand I guess now obviously the recovery seems more evident.
How you guys are thinking about your land opportunities? I know you were one of the first to be up there buying finished lots 3 years ago and it seems like you guys were picking up even a lot of what I would consider pretty small positions.
So I'm kind of trying to figure out are you still focused on that even though prices are going up? And are you just paying more or are you finding undeveloped or partially developed land deals within those better markets? Or are you moving further out to find finished lot deals maybe in the so-called B and C markets? Clearly our balance sheet is extraordinarily strong so we're in a position to capitalize on any opportunities that we see on the land and lot side.
Clearly land prices in certain markets have moved up more dramatically than we think they should have.
As a result we're being more conservative in those particular markets.
But we are putting our balance sheet to work on good deals in good markets with good returns.
And the great thing about this company is we pretty much have maintained our original footprint during this downturn.
And as opposed like a number of our competitors having to focus on just a handful of markets to generate their growth we've got a huge footprint and so we can selectively invest in each one of those markets or selective markets such that we don't have to take the risk that our other competitors do.
And we can focus on growth and risk in the markets that we think are the best for us at that particular time without pushing the window too hard in any one market.
We clearly are focused on one thing.
We're not going to take the hook at this early stage in the housing recovery with the weak macroeconomic scenario that we see.
And bet the balance sheet of this company that we've cleaned up so nicely and it's the strongest it's ever been just because of the fact that there are a lot of people out there thinking that land prices are -- need to be a lot higher than what they deserve to be.
LLC</strong> And are you able to also push back on labor and materials or are you finding that the labor is -- it is what it is and you're having to pay up more for that? Well first of all we have a lot of partners who we've been doing business with for a number of years.
We just completed our every 2-year Purchasing Managers meeting in Las Vegas with our vendors and our manufacturers.
And so as a result we set the expectations for them where our volume is going.
Clearly we're a big portion of a lot of their business and as a result we continue to work together to keep our prices and our cost moderated.
And we expect them to cover their overhead with D.R.
Horton business and make their profit off of our competitors.
Our next question comes from Stephen East with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Don if I hear you as you talk it sounds like you're focusing more on volume as we move through call it the next 4 5 quarters versus pricing.
How would you characterize how you prefer to grow between now and the end of '13? Clearly we've been the #1 builder unit-wise for 10 consecutive years.
And all the while I think clearly out earning most of our competitors a few handful have done slightly better than we but not significantly.
And our goal on a go-forward basis is to continue to be the largest builder in the U.S.
but most importantly to continue to focus on profitability.
As Horton has said many times it's easy to make money in this business.
It's harder to keep it.
And as a result what we're trying to focus on and we are focused very hard on is profitability.
But we're going to win profitability with volume but what clearly our division presidents know one thing.
They're not to take a backseat to any builder in any market because we have the best cost and the best pricing and best balance sheet of anybody in the industry.
So you can add all that up and divide it up and see what I really said.
Research Division</strong> That's going to be a chore on that one.
Okay.
And then just 2 other sort of distinct questions.
One your split between fixed and variable on your G&amp;A expense.
And then you've talked a lot about some areas land is just too expensive and that type of thing.
If you look region by region where are you primarily trying to put your money to work? Well I don't mean to be rude Steve but I just stopped giving the Bobby toll market grade by markets because frankly we have some preeminent positions in a lot of our markets and I just don't want to be telling our competition where we're doing better.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
Can you do it in a more generalized area not Dallas or Houston but southwest versus east or something like that? Steven if you look at our land position in the regions that are improving most in terms of the lots that I have under control the 2 standouts for us still continue to be the southeast and the south central region.
Those are where we're finding more opportunities.
And those have been consistently where we found more opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then on the SG&amp;A? Yes.
In terms of the variable portion of our SG&amp;A when we are looking at revenue increasing sequentially typically our variable SG&amp;A will equate to between 3% and 5% of the increase in revenues.
So if revenues increased by $100 million then we would expect the SG&amp;A to -- the variable portion to increase between $3 million and $5 million.
This quarter the sequential increase from Q2 to Q3 was 5% of our sequential revenue increase.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to maybe get better clarity around the question I had before in terms of spec but particularly as it relates to your comments around gross margins.
You said that you expect gross margins I believe to improve in 2013 and in part due to more build-to-order versus spec.
But I thought DT you said that you expect spec next year to be roughly similar to this year.
Was I mishearing or misunderstanding those comments? No you're not.
And frankly our spec level as I said earlier has run pretty consistently year after year after year and we run somewhere between 50% and 60%.
We may get into the 62% or 63% level at the right time of the year and we dropped down to the mid-40s at other times of the year when we get closer to our third and fourth quarters.
So as a result our game plan has always been in this company we know how to build specs we know how to make money off specs and we believe it's really a keystone of our business.
So as a result on a go forward basis notwithstanding the fact that we have more and more build jobs we are also continuing to offer the same level of specs at the specific quarters in the year where it makes sense.
We increase and decrease dependent upon the quarter of the year.
I think the other thing that maybe a little bit confusing is when we were talking about the ability to turn the backlog more quickly and some of the drag on the margin we were talking about completed specs.
Completed specs have come down year-over-year from about 2 500 I believe last year to about 2 100 this year.
And as a percentage of our inventory that's even a greater drop because our overall inventory has been growing.
So that's another factor that we look at just in addition to our overall spec percentage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then the completed specs is really one of the factors to drive gross margin improvement next year? Would another factor also be you had mentioned over time you're trying to migrate back from a 54% first-time buyer exposure more to typically 35% to 40%.
And given comments around expanding the move-up product offering would that also -- to the extent that you have a higher exposure in move-up next year would that also benefit the gross margins? Well clearly the bigger percentage of our backlog that's move-up should have a higher margin than the spec margin.
And we should be rewarded for that simply because of the fact that we're building a home for a particular person as opposed to having -- building a production home which takes slightly longer.
So we should get a higher return on a build job.
Right now we are seeing margin improvement in every component of our business.
And we think we have a good trend going.
We're going to work on continuing to improve that in every component of our business.
Research Division</strong> So maybe just to tie it all together in terms of gross margins for next year what would be the biggest drivers of expansion if you were to think across let's say 3 categories of less incentives of better pricing mix shift towards move-up and less completed specs.
So can you give us a sense of maybe the order of the drivers there? Well clearly I think that the more build jobs we have that's going to drive our margins the best of those 3 categories.
The completed specs basically what we're talking about is that we have fewer aged completed specs specs that have been completed for a period of 6 months or less.
So to the extent that that makes up a smaller percent of our backlog that would be really the #2 driver.
We have focused for years on making sure our specs have been completed for a period of greater than 6 months are moved and sold as quickly as possible.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on your ASP do you still expect that to -- I mean it's been trending -- the closing has been trending higher than the backlog.
Do you think that will continue? The trend has been up.
We hope it continues but that's a week-to-week month-to-month thing but clearly the trend has been up pretty consistently the last several quarters.
And I'd say 2 factors are driving that.
One is how many build jobs we have build-to-order houses we have move-up homes we have and also frankly our pricing power.
And right now the pricing power is small but is there so I think that's one of the things clearly contributing to our increase on our ASP.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And you mentioned your compensation expense in third quarter being higher than a year ago.
Can you quantify that on what it was in the third quarter 2012 and third quarter 2011? We'd have to get back to you on the specific numbers on that.
But that is the -- on the year-over-year change that is the largest component of the year-over-year increase and directly related to the profitability of the company and the change in share price.
And just to be clear that sales commissions it's bonuses for the superintendents it's division level comp it's region comp and its corporate comp all of those have some component that's either tied to volume revenue or profitability and stock price.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Rybak with Ivory Capital.
First question.
Can you comment on the order growth progression for the quarter? Mike we typically don't comment about the intra-quarter trends but the results that we posted where June was a little bit higher than our March quarter.
Typically March and June are pretty close together but usually only in about 1/3 of the situation is June higher than March so we would view this as a very positive sales trend.
And we're continuing that into July as we said.
Okay okay.
And Don I think a couple of quarters ago I think on the Q1 call you mentioned that your personal goal is 5 years out coming close to 50 000 units.
I mean is that still kind of a realistic goal? And is there -- what sort of environment would we need to see for you to reach that before the 5-year mark? I think when we went back and did the math that's probably -- that's assuming about 20% to 25% growth each year for 4 or 5 years.
And to answer your question directly I would be disappointed in 5 years if we weren't closing over 50 000 units.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Widner with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned -- not really paying too much attention to what your peers do and mostly focusing on running the business for yourselves which you've done very well.
But I did want to ask you about what you're seeing out there particularly amongst some of the private builders.
And really I guess the question is that there's been a widespread perception that those guys have been paralyzed and to some degree that they're -- a lot of them are gone forever and not coming back.
And as you indicated you guys took a lot of market share over the past couple of years as you were in a better position and reacted more quickly.
With that said the last couple of quarters have been exceptionally strong for the public builders and there's a lot of market share stealing going on by other folks.
I'm wondering if you're seeing any response in the private guys in terms of land competition for new deals or new communities opening up or anything along those lines? And how you'd expect that to play out going forward especially given that you've been around this business a few years and you've probably seen a cycle or 2 in your day.
I have seen a couple of cycles in my day yes.
And to your point about peers we do focus on our competitors out there because frankly that's a daily focus of ours.
I would say to you on the -- as D.R.
and I travel around the markets one of the things that we don't see a lot of is activity in the small and medium-size builders and that's directly a function of the unwillingness of the banks to lend to them.
I think as the market continues to improve obviously the banks will begin to lend to them.
But clearly most of that lending will be done for the vertical construction and not the land and lots.
So as long as the banks continue not to lend to the small and medium-sized builder on land and lots or independent developers to sell to individual builders -- small and medium-sized builders I think that production homebuilders in particular D.R.
Horton will be in a preeminent position.
And a lot of the developers over the last 4 or 5 years who did concentrate on developing lots and selling them to the small and medium-sized builders have learned a valuable lesson and that is they need to deal with well-capitalized builders so we're finding a number of the developers who focused on that portion of the market as they try to get back in the market and some of them are getting back in the market.
They're definitely focused on dealer with well-capitalized production builders like Horton.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so I guess how does this differ from some of the prior cycles.
In that sense? I mean obviously this has been a much deeper cycle.
But certainly if we look back to the last one and coming out of this S&amp;L crisis most of the private guys did come back and it's very mixed I think by geography as we look around and talk to small builders.
But I mean there's definitely been a tick-up in activity at least in some of the local areas that we look at and just wondering on your sense if this is varied by area is this varied by the local relationships that the guys have with local backs and sitting on the local PTA and all that sort of stuff.
I mean how did it play out last time? How did it play out back in the 80s? And again any parallels or differences you're seeing today? I think the key today is that the banks are -- obviously they've gone through a very difficult time period themselves.
And as I read they're still not willing to lend to very many people including well-capitalized and strong balance sheet companies like D.R.
Horton.
So clearly they're not in the game to lend to the small and medium-sized builders.
I think where the builders small and medium-sized builders clearly have an advantage is in the less capital intensive markets.
Clearly Texas is a less capital intensive market.
Places like Louisiana even New Mexico and Arizona.
But you get into places like California and Florida and particularly in the northeast the average lot price is extraordinarily high and so as a result it cost -- it's a high risk and a high loan amount for a builder to get a loan from a bank and that takes a lot of equity on many occasions for those small and medium-sized builders on those capital intensive markets to even be in the market.
And to answer your question from a slightly different angle I think if you look back to the early 80s even the public builders were dependent on a significant level of bank debt.
So we were still talking to the same sources of capital for growth during that time period.
Now when you look at the balance sheets we're using capital markets to pay for it.
So it's a different source of lending for us that comes with fewer covenants and a defined timeframe that can't be taken back.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just -- I mean one last point on that.
I mean the early 90s did have some parallels and that we were coming out the S&amp;L crisis.
I mean certainly particularly with regard to mortgage lending or anything residential it's pretty horrific experience for most banks and there were certainly -- I mean there's a lot more bank failures actually last time around than this time around.
So again just drawing the parallel back to -- on your experience from the last cycle I mean does it feel different worse this time for the banks? Or do you think you have the same amount of kind of running room to again take advantage of their being paralyzed or again any historical comparison I guess would just be helpful.
Just from a personal standpoint I think the banks today are in a preeminent position.
They have the U.S.
taxpayers backing so as a result they're stronger than they've ever been and that's different from the last time because in the 80s and the 90s clearly the bank failure rate and the savings and loan rate was extraordinarily high so there were very few players in the market to even lend.
But today all of our banks are I think extraordinarily well-capitalized.
I think what they're waiting for is clearly some indication that when they make a loan that they're not going to be underwater on the loan 3 months later or 6 months later because asset values have depreciated.
So I think from their perspective and being an ex-commercial banker I think it's tough to make a loan today just simply from the perspective that your loan-to-value ratio could change overnight.
So I think there needs to be -- as it relates to the housing industry I think there needs to be some small but rather consistent increasing in valuations on houses and land and lots such that the banks feel comfortable that they're not going to be taking a write-down after they made the loan 3 months later.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'd like to hand the floor back over to Mr.
Tomnitz for closing comments.
Thank you.
Thank you for joining us on our Q3 conference call.
Obviously we're very proud of what our company has accomplished and most importantly we're proud of what our people have accomplished.
It seems like that people key in on our conference calls to try to determine the level of confidence that we have in the homebuilding industry going forward.
And clearly you should have concluded from this conference call that we feel very good about the U.S.
housing market.
We feel very strong about our position in the U.S.
housing market and that's all on the face of a rather weak macroeconomic environment.
We're confident about our future we're confident about our abilities to continue to capture market share.
We're confident about continuing to be able to expand our market share and our profits and our profit margins.
So thank you.
We'll see you after the fourth quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States Fiscal Year End and Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Donald J.
Tomnitz President and CEO.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray now Senior Vice President and Controller.
Before we get started Stacey.
Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? D.R.
Horton's financial results in the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2012 were our strongest performance since 2006 reflecting the improving conditions in our housing markets and most importantly the effective repositioning of our company over the last 5 years.
For the fourth quarter pretax income was $99.2 million the highest of the last 22 quarters.
Our quarterly net sales orders improved 24% from last year and our average sales price contributed to a 35% increase in the value of net sales orders.
Our positive year-over-year sales comparisons continued through October and into the first part of November.
Our backlog of sales orders increased 49% compared to last year and our backlog value is up 61% which puts us in a position for a strong first quarter of fiscal 2013.
Fiscal 2012 was D.R.
Horton's most profitable year in the last 6 years with $242.9 million of pretax income.
Essentially all of our operating metrics improved in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011.
Our sales closings and backlog all increased by double-digit percentages.
Our gross margin on home sales revenues increased 160 basis points.
Our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues improved 100 basis points.
In response to our sales growth we have increased our investments in homes under construction finished lots land and land development to position ourselves for future growth.
Our increased investments also include the acquisition of the homebuilding assets of Breland Homes during the quarter the 38th largest homebuilder in the U.S.
in 2011 according to Builder magazine.
These investments are fueling our increasing profits even though macroeconomic conditions and outlook remain soft and uncertain.
We are finding opportunities to take market share in existing markets while evaluating attractive new submarkets.
Our entry-level business remains strong while we're expanding our product offerings for move up buyers.
To fuel our expected growth we entered into a revolving credit facility during the year and raised $700 million of additional capital through 2 senior note issues both at very attractive interest rates.
Even after these capital raises our balance sheet remains extremely strong with net homebuilding leverage of only 21% and gross leverage of 39%.
Bill? In the fourth quarter our homebuilding operations generated pretax income of $85.7 million compared to $27.4 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our financial services operations generated pretax income of $13.5 million compared to $6.4 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our net income for the quarter increased to $100.1 million or $0.30 per diluted share.
Our diluted share count this quarter included 38.3 million shares related to our convertible senior notes.
When these shares are dilutive they're added to the diluted EPS denominator and the associated interest expense and amortized issuance costs are added back to net income to calculate diluted EPS.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2013 we estimate that these shares and the related costs would be included in our diluted EPS only if quarterly pretax income is approximately $140 million or higher which after applying a 38% income tax rate would be approximately $87 million of net income.
For fiscal 2012 we generated pretax income of $242.9 million compared to $12.1 million in fiscal 2011.
Our net income for the year increased to $956.3 million which included a tax benefit of $713.4 million primarily from the reduction in the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets that we recorded in the June quarter.
Stacey? Our fourth quarter home sales revenues increased 20% to $1.3 billion on 5 575 homes closed up from $1.1 billion on 4 987 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $231 100 up 7% compared to the prior year and up 3% sequentially.
We expect that our backlog conversion rate will continue to revert closer to historical seasonal norms.
For the first quarter we expect our conversion rate to be in the mid-60% range.
Don? Net sales orders for the fourth quarter increased 24% from last year to 5 276 homes.
Our active selling communities were flat from the year-ago quarter.
However we expect our community count to increase 5% to 10% in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012.
Our average sales price on net sales orders of $237 800 increased 9% compared to the year-ago quarter and 2% sequentially.
The cancellation rate for the fourth quarter was 27% compared to 29% on the year-ago quarter.
Our sales backlog at September 30 2012 increased 49% from the prior year to 7 240 homes.
The value of this backlog increased 61% to $1.7 billion from $1 billion a year ago.
Our sales pace has continued to produce strong year-over-year order comparisons through October and into the first part of November.
Mike? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the fourth quarter was 18.1% up 200 basis points from the year-ago period.
150 basis points of the increase was due to improving market conditions resulting in fewer incentives and discounts and higher average selling prices while 30 basis points of the increase was due to lower amortized interest and property taxes.
The remaining 20 basis points of the increase was due to lower estimated costs for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenues.
Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue for the fiscal year was 17.7% up 160 basis points from the prior year.
120 basis points of the increase was due to improving market conditions resulting in fewer incentives and discounts and higher average selling prices while 50 basis points of the increase was due to lower amortized interest and property taxes.
These increases were partially offset by a 10-basis-point decrease due to higher estimated cost for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenue.
Our expectation for our first quarter home sales gross margin is in the low 18% range consistent with the fourth quarter.
We expect further improvement in our margin in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012.
Stacey? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $146 million compared to $124 million in the prior-year quarter.
As a percentage of homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A improved 40 basis points to 11.2% from 11.6%.
For fiscal 2012 homebuilding SG&amp;A expense was $529 million compared to $480 million in fiscal 2011.
As a percentage of homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A improved 100 basis points to 12.5% from 13.5% a year ago.
We are leveraging our fixed cost structure while at the same time rebuilding the sales and production side of the business to meet increasing demand for our homes and mortgages.
Our number of employees increased 16% from a year ago to approximately 3 500 at September 30.
In the first quarter of 2013 we expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues will increase seasonally from the fourth quarter due to fewer closings.
For fiscal 2013 we expect our SG&amp;A percentage to improve compared to fiscal 2012 as we close more homes and continue to leverage our fixed cost structure.
Mike? Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $13.5 million a 110% improvement from $6.4 million in the year-ago quarter.
84% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations.
Our mortgage company handled the financing for 59% of our homebuyers this quarter with virtually all loans meeting eligibility requirements for sale to Fannie Mae Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 51% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter down from 60% in the year-ago quarter.
Our mortgage company's new borrowers during the quarter had an average FICO score of 716 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 91%.
First-time homebuyers represented 49% of the closings handled by our mortgage company this quarter.
Stacey? Our income tax benefit for fiscal 2012 was $713.4 million.
As we discussed on our last quarter conference call we reduced our deferred tax asset valuation allowance by $716.7 million during third quarter based on our determination that it was more likely than not that we will generate sufficient income in future periods to realize the substantial majority of our deferred tax assets.
In the fourth quarter our valuation allowance was reduced further for our fourth quarter income.
Our net deferred tax asset on our balance sheet is $709.5 million at September 30 of which $188.9 million relates to our available carryforwards of net operating losses for tax purposes.
The remaining deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $41.9 million at year end relates to certain state NOLs which may not be realized due to shorter carryforward periods in those states.
Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 we expect to report income tax expense at a tax rate of approximately 38%.
Until we have utilized our NOL carryforwards the majority of the tax expense recorded will not require cash but will reduce the carrying value of our deferred tax asset.
Bill? Since June our total inventory increased by approximately $304 million reflecting a $110 million increase in homes in inventory and a $194 million increase in our land and lot inventory.
Our homes in inventory at the end of September totaled 13 000 homes up 800 from last quarter.
As of September 30 1 100 of our homes were models 6 400 were speculative homes and 2 100 of the specs were completed.
Don? In our fourth fiscal quarter our investments in land lots and development costs totaled $491 million as we continue to buy new communities and replenish our finished lots supply to meet increasing demand.
During the fiscal year we spent $1.4 billion on land lots and development cost which is up from $790 million in the prior year.
We continue to purchase or option finished lots in many markets and are also investing in land acquisition and development opportunities to ensure we have adequate lot supplies in desirable markets.
Our general underwriting guidelines on our new deals continue to be: a gross margin of 20% or higher and a 2-year return of initial cash.
At September 30 2012 we controlled approximately 153 000 lots of which 95 000 are owned and 58 000 are option.
25 000 of our owned lots and 35 000 of our option lots are finished.
60 000 total finished lots we control at year end are up 25% sequentially and 40% from a year ago.
Mike? During the quarter we purchased the homebuilding operating assets of Breland Homes for $105.9 million in cash.
With the acquisition of Breland we now operate in Huntsville Alabama and the Gulf Coast of Mississippi and we strengthened our position in the Mobile Alabama market.
At the date of acquisition we acquired approximately 300 homes in inventory 1 000 finished lots and entered into option contracts to control approximately 3 700 lots.
We also acquired a sales order backlog of 228 homes valued at $46.9 million.
Subsequent to the acquisition date in August our fourth quarter results include 118 net sales for $24.3 million and 114 closings for $22.4 million from the Breland operations.
Bill? To support our growth plans we issued $350 million of 10-year 4.375% senior notes during the quarter.
This increased our ending balance of homebuilding unrestricted cash and marketable securities to $1.3 billion.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at September 30 was $2.3 billion.
Our next debt maturity of approximately $172 million is in May 2013.
At September 30 our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash and marketable securities was 21.4% and our gross homebuilding leverage was 39.1%.
During the quarter we entered into a 5-year $125 million unsecured revolving credit facility.
Subsequent to year end we obtained additional commitments from banks and increased the size of the facility to $600 million.
The facility's uncommitted accordion feature was also amended to allow an increase in the size of the facility to $1 billion.
Don? Our fiscal 2012 results reflect our consistent and dramatic efforts to reposition and strengthen our company through the recent downturn.
Specifically we just completed our most profitable quarter in the last 22 quarters and our most profitable fiscal year in 6 years.
Our fiscal 2012 reflects increased sales increased gross margins increased closings increased backlogs increased ASPs improved SG&amp;A percentage.
We are well positioned with our broad national footprint which we kept largely intact throughout the downturn our current inventory to capture demand our land and lot position our cash and marketable securities.
We are focused on prudently and profitably increasing our industry-leading market share in 2013 and thereafter.
Finally D.R.
and I would like to personally thank our DHI teammates for their hard work and extraordinary industry accomplishments.
We're excited by the opportunities we see in fiscal 2013 and beyond.
Please keep up the good work.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Now we will host any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Question.
You're obviously [indiscernible] guidance.
But [indiscernible] 5% to 10%.
Historically you've talked about your units under construction being roughly half of your forward 12 months delivery which supply roughly 26 000 [indiscernible] kind of 35%.
Would you say your past trends have changed as you look into fiscal 2013? No Ken.
We wouldn't necessarily say that anything has changed.
We're certainly trying to make sure we are in a strong position to support whatever growth the market will allow next year and we're certainly focused on gaining market share in 2013.
So we plan to do that through increasing our community count and we're also going to make sure that our homes and inventory position is in a strong position to capture the growth.
One thing that we're very cognizant of though is if you take our 13 000 homes and multiply by 2 you come up with 26 000.
From an inventory perspective we think we're well positioned that we can deliver that.
However it's going to take the demand side of the equation as well.
So we're ready for the demand but we do need to see the demand to be able to meet those deliveries.
And then we'll continue to add homes and adjust our spec inventory and our lot inventory based on the demand we see.
And to help Stacey manage expectations please recall that our 13 000 units also include 1 000 models.
So we actually have 12 000 units that are for sale and closable.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay I got that.
I guess another way to think about it as the downturn progressed and you had more speculative units which reflected first-time buyers you said your spec count would kind of just mirror your first-time buyers.
If they were 49% do you expect that'll kind of change in 2013 related to your community mix and offerings? Well we'll see.
It depends on demand.
Right now it's right in line with our first-time homebuyers.
We're at 49% specs and I believe we had 49% first-time homebuyers this quarter.
We certainly have a strong first-time homebuyer business and we plan on continuing to build on that.
As the move-up part of the business and the build-to-order part of the business grows that could result in a lower spec percentage.
But we'll really just adjust with what we see in the market.
And please don't recall -- or please recall that our spec inventory has a tendency to increase specifically in December January and February as we prepare for the selling season.
So it's not unusual for our spec percentage to increase somewhere up in the mid-50% to 60% level.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> The first question I had was around gross margins.
You've had nice improvement this year particularly on a year-over-year basis and you also mentioned that you expect first quarter to be in the low 18% range so maybe in and around where it's been the last couple quarters maybe a few bps higher.
Some of your peers have had pretty good sequential improvement in the September quarter versus the June quarter as they've seen continued benefits from pricing and reduced incentives.
How are you -- how do you see that come through in your own numbers? I guess you've had kind of steady gross margin sequentially.
Perhaps if you could kind of discuss your pricing over the last 2 3 quarters how it's gone and also to the extent that some of that's perhaps potentially been offset by higher land costs or material labor cost? Well clearly I would say to you that we are seeing pricing power as we move from market to market to market.
Also with the extraordinarily low 4.5-months' supply of new homes available for purchase today we believe that purchasing power will continue to increase.
We also had 160 basis points as we indicated improvement in our gross margins of which 120 basis points was due to fewer incentives.
Yes.
And Mike I think another thing you're seeing in our margin in particular is we began refreshing our inventory and tying up finished lot contracts way back in 2009.
And so the mix of our closings that have been coming from those newer communities last year was already right around 50%.
That continues to improve this year but our margin should already reflect some of that repositioning effort in a year-over-year comparison.
As we continue to pursue new land and lot deals and approve them we are still finding those deals meeting our underwriting guidelines which is 20% greater -- 20% or equal to greater -- equal to gross margins and our return of cash within the 24 months.
So we do not see a lack of low -- or high-margin lot deals out there.
We're not replacing our current lot position with less than 20% gross margin deals.
And when we put it all together we do expect margins to probably improve slightly here in the first quarter the low 18% range.
And we do expect further improvement as we move through fiscal 2013 based on what we can see right now.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Great.
I appreciate that.
Second question on the community count.
You mentioned that it was flat and I'm not sure if that was sequentially or year-over-year.
Maybe you could clarify that.
But looking into '13 you expected community count to be up 5% to 10%.
And just want to also clarify on that if that's an average growth of community count for '13 versus '12 which potentially might imply -- I mean maybe we can just establish whether or not that growth would be kind of similar throughout the year or if community count would be rising throughout the year that you would end the year let's say 4Q '13 over 4Q '12 at about a 10%-plus type number? Sure.
The flat community count was a year-over-year comparison.
On a sequential basis our community count -- our selling communities were up 3% sequentially.
As we look at the year for fiscal 2013 the 5% to 10% range is a general range that we would expect to characterize the full year of fiscal 2013.
Our average selling -- our communities are growing right now and we would expect right now for that to continue to grow.
But part of that's going to be based on the demand we see during fiscal 2013.
So we feel like the 5% to 10% is a fair range based on what we can see today.
Is it possible that if demand continues to improve we continue to invest and open new communities that we could be a 10% or better this time next year? That's certainly possible.
Clearly our goal is is to continue to increase our market share and our footprint and we are not seeing a lack of good deals out there in the marketplace.
We're seeing plenty of good deals to continue to replace our lot positions as we roll off from existing land and lot deals.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Was wondering you were talking about the -- seeing plenty of good land deals out there.
With the acquisition of Breland -- in the past that would have been something -- entering those markets would have been something you would have done with your satellite market strategy.
How do you think about the opportunities in terms of small company acquisitions in that style versus just land deals out there in terms of profitably growing market share over the coming year? We look at every deal and every market individually and we will still enter new markets on a satellite basis.
And we will still look at given opportunities.
The Breland acquisition was a bit unique in that we were able to align ourselves with a very strong developer in those markets and maintain an ongoing relationship that we would start with a large relationship and would continue to be able to be a significant supplier of lots to us for the coming years.
We tied up 3 700 lots in addition to what we bought on day one.
That takes a little bit of time to accumulate on kind of a greenfield or a satellite market strategy.
So we felt very good about the ability to get into those markets in a big way quickly with that kind of a smaller company acquisition.
But it's not to say that every market we enter into would have to be through acquisition.
We're also still look at greenfields very seriously every time we evaluate an acquisition.
But there are a number of satellite opportunities and city opportunities available to us primarily because of our low SG&amp;A structure.
And that permits us the opportunity to go into markets which other builders find unattractive.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then second question just wondering what your goals would be in terms of price when you talked about the entry level versus doing more -- in terms of move-up as that market improves.
Given where we are in terms of affordability right now and the rising rents that have been coming through in the rental market why not just continue to really focus on that first-time market which you know so well? Is there not enough opportunity there? I think there's extraordinary opportunities in the first-time housing market as we see with our 49% of our business is first-time homebuyer.
The key is though is we see people coming into our model homes there are a number of move-up buyers people who are either deciding they're going to retire or their homes are worth a little bit more or if they're willing to accept the price they can get for their existing home and they're willing to pay current prices to get into a new community which I feel and they feel has higher appreciation potential on a new home than an existing home.
So I feel like generally speaking we are very well focused on both markets the first time and the move-up buyer and we don't want to leave that move-up buyer to any of our competitors.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo.
This is Joey on for Adam.
My first question is if you could elaborate a little bit on your slowing backlog conversion.
I know you gave some guidance for next quarter next year of mid-60s.
But I was just wondering this quarter if there are any large things we should be aware [ph] of in terms of why it was slowing down? This is really just a return to more normal operating metrics that we're seeing in gross margin and SG&amp;A and also in our backlog conversion.
We've seen an increase in the number of build-to-order homes in our backlog.
And those by definition will just take a little longer for us to build and then deliver.
Our spec percentage has worked down to where it's under 50% now.
We were running with a higher spec percentage and more specifically a higher completed number of specs.
We've worked that down so we don't have the same immediate closing opportunities that we had before which is really a more normal business model for us.
So we still expect our conversion rate in this first quarter of 2013 to be elevated compared to historical norms.
We typically see in our first quarter somewhere in the mid-50%.
That'd be consistent in the second quarter.
And then in the third quarter we'd be getting into the 60% range.
And in the fourth quarter we might approach a 70% on historical levels.
So the 76% we just realized compared to what we would typically run before the downturn is very normal.
It's actually still high.
Please recall though as we've focused on that second-time homebuyer they typically are buying a larger more expensive home and they're a little bit more discriminating than the first-time homebuyer.
So as a result it's taking a little bit longer to produce those but it's still a very profitable segment of the industry that we continue to expand and we'll capitalize on.
And also a positive note on that is we have much better visibility with our backlog than we've had when we were converting 90-plus percent.
So now when we look at our backlog and you're going to convert mid-60s you still have more of that backlog that gives you visibility beyond just the next quarter.
And clearly that gives us a much better opportunity in pricing power because when we are converting 90% of our backlog each and every quarter a lot of that had to do with closing specs within 30 days and we were struggling to meet sales goals and closing goals.
So as a result the fact that we have fewer or lower conversion I think enhances our profitability on a go-forward basis.
Great.
My second question is if you could elaborate on your pricing power what you talked about seems like you're a little bit optimistic about it going forward.
How do you see the pricing power versus raw material labor cost inflation playing out over the next few quarters? Well clearly we focus on the cost side of this business very very closely and we do that from a national purchasing basis with Brad Conlon who leads our national purchasing region as well as on a division by division and region by region.
There are costs that are going up.
As I've said for the last 20-some-odd years that I've been in this business our goal is to control our increases and to make certain that we have pricing power as we move forward in market-by-market.
As I look at the low inventory of finished homes with just 4.5-month supply of new homes compared to where that number was which I think it was double-digits at one point in time 10- 11-months' supply clearly the buyer who's coming into our subdivision has much more incentive and much more timing in order to make that purchase because there's not the excess inventory sitting out there in the marketplace.
So the function of low inventory is going to increase our pricing power as we move forward.
And just to clarify on that your pricing power is that relative to rising costs? Or is that just gross increasing prices...
It's a combination of both.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to see what your incentive compensation was in your SG&amp;A this year versus a year ago? Joel I'm not sure we have that number right in front of us at this moment.
It was one of the larger increases in the quarter.
Yes certainly.
With the profitability of the company increasing our incentive comp is largely based on the profitability at our division region and our company level.
And it's also based on what our stock price.
And so our stock price has had a very strong performance throughout the quarter.
I'd be happy to follow up with you with a little bit more specific information on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just a follow-up on what your customer deposits were at the end of the fiscal year? And just while they're looking that up I will say that I believe that our management team at D.R.
all the way to our regional presidents to our division presidents are still the best buy in the industry.
Got it? Yes.
$22.7 million.
Customers made deposits on 7 240 units in backlog average of just over $3 000 a unit.
The next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
I just wanted to see if you could kind of describe the thought process around the $700 million in capital raises this year and if this was more opportunistic? Or are you kind of targeting some type of cash level or a debt-to-cap ratio? Yes so I just wanted to get some thoughts around that.
That's really all of the above.
We certainly as we see improved sales demand we certainly have expectations to grow our business and are planning to increase our investments in our business.
So we want to make sure we're in good position with our cash balances to support that growth.
Certainly the capital markets have been very favorable this past year and certain windows have been extremely favorable.
So we felt good about our execution on our debt deals and the rates we've been able to achieve there.
So the timing of some of the deals was certainly opportunistic from a capital markets standpoint.
As we go forward we are targeting to still keep a healthy cash balance.
We have been keeping a cash balance in excess of $1 billion.
However now that we have implemented a revolving credit facility with $600 million capacity we probably will bring our cash balances down a bit.
So it would not surprise us if our cash balances were below $1 billion in some future quarters because we have the flexibility of the $600 million of extra liquidity available to us through our revolver.
But in terms of our overall leverage targets we would still expect to keep our gross homebuilding leverage in the 40% to 45% range or lower.
And then our net basis would -- net leverage would simply be that less whatever cash balance we choose to keep.
And please realize as we continue to grow our finished lot supply there are adequate finished lot supplies available in most of our markets today.
There are few of our markets where that finished lot supply is being depleted and we are having to begin to develop lots for ourselves again.
And as we move into this recovery we will be developing a bigger and bigger percentage of our lots simply because there won't be a finished lot supply available in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> And have you already started buying more -- a little bit more of this undeveloped land? Or -- it seems like that's somewhat of a change.
Yes we have and it's on a market-by-market basis.
Let me clearly say currently the vast majority of the deals that we are approving at the corporate office and our regions are submitting to us are for finished lots that someone else owns.
And a lot of those are rolling option deals where we're buying the lots as we need them.
Some of them there's such good pricing on them and we have to be a first mover that we've had to cash out those finished lots.
But we're supplementing that with development of land deals where we're buying the land and taking it through the -- actually we're taking it through the entitlements buying the land and then developing the lots.
But that's a small percentage of our business of finished lots but it will continue to increase as we move forward.
As we buy land and we develop land we are still focused on achieving a cash return -- initial return of our cash of 24 months or less.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one other question is you guys have been kind of an industry leader on the SG&amp;A side.
So with the Breland acquisition is there any room for further expense control coming out of Breland? And was there any impact this quarter? Breland was a very well-run profitable builder.
It wouldn't take them long to be Hortonized.
They were actually -- already ran a very low SG&amp;A rate.
So I don't look for a lot of improvement in their SG&amp;A rate but it does leverage more of our central resources across their revenue base.
We didn't have to leverage up anything at corporate for the region level to support those operations.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> First question relates to your mortgage company statistics.
Just want to first of all confirm I think you said you had a 51% capture rate but -- if you could just correct me if I'm wrong there.
But can you generally describe what you think the quality of the buyers in terms of the credit quality of the buyers is for the unit -- for the home buyers who are not going through your mortgage company? Would we generally be correct in presuming that these are probably higher-quality borrowers? Or would you think that for whatever reason that actually it's folks who are more credit challenged who would not be using your mortgage company? First of all the capture rate was 59%.
And really we don't have great visibility into the credit metrics for the people who don't go through our mortgage company.
Part of our capture rate is driven by not having the mortgage company in every market where we operate.
So there's a portion of just our national footprint we don't capture.
And beyond that really what we usually hear is someone has an existing relationship with another lender or they've shopped our rates in the market.
It's less about credit quality and more just about cost and opportunity.
Research Division</strong> How about in terms of FHA exposure? For example if someone was going to use an FHA loan do you think that your capture rate for those kinds of loans would be higher than the 59%? I don't know because we wouldn't know if they didn't use our mortgage company if they used an FHA loan.
Or I shouldn't say we wouldn't know that but we don't track that.
We just don't have that information.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
That's fine.
And then the second question I had related to your sub count again.
I know that you've -- actually I'm sorry your SG&amp;A.
I know you got a couple of questions.
But you're -- I'm intrigued by your commentary about the backlog turnover sort of getting back to a more normal kind of a level and I think that that reflects a pretty significant reduction from where you've been going.
But if your backlog conversion ratio is getting back to normal then that would imply perhaps that your community level efficiency might also begin to approach normalization.
And yet your SG&amp;A ratio for 2012 is in the mid-12% range.
It's still significantly higher than what you've done in the past which is more like 10%.
So my question is if we're seeing backlog conversion ratios getting back to normal in 2013 how long do you think it'll be before we start to see SG&amp;A as a percentage of your homebuilding revenues back to something closer to normal as well? Well it's certainly -- it's on the path to getting back to normal.
We had 100 basis points improvement in our SG&amp;A ratio this year even while backlog conversion rates also declined this year.
We would expect further leverage on our SG&amp;A as we grow in the coming year.
And whether that's -- we're back to 10% the timing will depend on how much the top line grows and how much we're able to leverage.
But we believe we will continue to make steady progress back to our industry-leading level of 10% SG&amp;A.
Steve this sort of goes back to one of my favorite comments by Todd Horton "No good deed shall go unpunished." We have one of the leading if not the leading SG&amp;A rates in the industry.
And you're wondering when it's going to get lower.
Well believe me we're focused on getting that lower but we pretty much have a core -- if you look at our SG&amp;A for the year as I recall it ran $529 million which is down from like $1.5 billion at the peak.
So as a result I think where we are today we have a core group of people core operators and the business will continue to grow and increase.
And that'll drive down our SG&amp;A percentage.
Our next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask on your overall lot count and open communities.
Do you happen to know how many lots or what percentage of the total is represented by communities that are currently open? We don't have that at our fingertips here Jade.
We can do some checking and get back to you on that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the deals you're doing is the number of lots per community increasing? I would say yes.
But again I'd go back to my earlier statement and that is with our low SG&amp;A we can do much smaller deals than the typical builder.
And we do do.
We'll do deals of 20-lot subdivisions all the way up to 200-lot subdivisions.
So it's increasing largely because of the fact that a lot of the deals that we're seeing out of the banks and the developers are larger positions that they're just now bringing to market.
And so we are focusing on clearly those larger deals because as we say it takes the same amount of time to do a 20-lot deal as it does a 200-lot deal.
Again our focus is largely on how do we get our initial cash investment back within 24 months.
And if you go back a little over a year ago our cash return hurdle was 12 months.
So we were doing very small communities primarily only finished lots at the time.
So as the market has turned we are certainly willing to do a little bit larger communities as long as we can get our initial cash back.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then regarding mothballed communities since your land held for development decreases is it safe to assume you de-mothballed communities? And could you indicate how many you currently have mothballed? We have pulled some mothballed communities into production.
The land held for development dollars of $644 million is a decline from where it's been.
That now represents about 41 000 lots.
And I believe this time a year ago it was around 44 000 or somewhere in that ballpark.
So we pulled a few thousand lots out of mothball.
And as the market continues to recover ever so slightly we will and are beginning to take obviously pieces of land out of our mothballed assets.
There are assets though in there that could be in there for the next 3 to 5 years but we will take them out as the market dictates but they're economically feasible for us to do so.
And it's not -- all of those assets are not all mothballed.
Some of them may be future phases of deals that we're currently active in the front of.
We just have -- we don't expect to get to those phases for -- generally over 12 to 18 months is our classification window there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give an indication of what the cash outlays per community would be to de-mothball a community? Yes that varies widely.
Typically it is land that requires development so we would be having to put in almost the full amount of development typically for each lot that we pull out.
But the total cash outlays really will be over an extended period of time and we'll evaluate them one deal one parcel one phase of lot development at a time.
Our next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> We've heard some other builders talk recently about some shortages on the labor side.
So I'd be -- interesting to hear as the biggest builder what you're seeing out there in terms of your subs and getting labor in the different markets? There is some shortage out there of labor.
Clearly our subcontractors don't feel as I guess good about the future of the economy the macro side of the economy.
So they cut back on a number of their crews during the downturn.
And they're reluctant in some cases and slow in other cases to build their crews back up to where they were before.
So as a result we are dealing with labor shortages in certain markets.
But the wonderful thing about D.R.
Horton is we still start more homes than anybody else in the industry.
We are attracting the labor pool and our labor pool is growing to support us because a lot of our labor pool works exclusively for D.R.
Horton and they've been with us for a number of years.
So they trust us to go ahead and begin to expand their businesses as our business begins to expand.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And since you mentioned the subs outlook for the future Don you've been willing in the past to kind of talk about your outlook for the U.S.
housing market.
Could you tell us kind of what you're thinking over the next 12 months? Clearly what we see today especially with our record backlog -- or I shouldn't say record backlog our backlog being up 49% in terms of units and 61% in terms of dollars we feel like we're well positioned for 2013.
Unless we have some sort of macro situation with the U.S.
economy we feel comfortable that we'll have a much better 2013 than we did 2012.
Again I get back to the one overriding driving force in our industry and that is job creation.
And I still don't see a lot of jobs being created.
And I also see the fact that there are potential layoffs in a number of industries especially the defense industry which could adversely affect our business.
I also believe that a number of small businesses are not incentivized to grow their business as much.
They're having difficulty growing their businesses and the taxes and the fees and so forth that are coming their way with healthcare and other types of things.
And I also believe that clearly there's not a focus on a nationwide basis to help those small businesses grow.
I think a lot of it is focused more on large businesses and unions and I think it's going to be difficult as we move forward to generate the number of jobs in this country that we need for us to have a strong housing market on a 2- to 3- 5-year basis.
I just think 2013 unless something adversely affects that I don't see on the horizon right now we're going in with eyes wide open and great expectations.
Our next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> The first question I want to ask there's obviously -- there's been -- and Megan mentioned a lot of kind of conversations around labor and labor shortages and I want to ask a question from a different perspective.
What I want to try to get an idea as the labor forces in your subcontractors look to kind of gear up their businesses how well financed are they to kind of fund their own internal expansion? Where are they getting the money to get bigger? And is that something that concerns you guys as you look forward? Well clearly lending has not -- commercial lending has not increased to the level that it should be or certainly where it was.
You bring up a good point.
A lot of those subcontractors are dealing pretty much on a cash-by-cash basis and not a lot of lending is available to them.
One of the things I believe that helps our subcontractors is Horton has a sterling reputation of paying on time and we help support those subcontractors grow their businesses.
They need to be paid on a more frequent basis than what we typically pay our subcontractors we'll work with those subcontractors until they get enough cash flow and they can could grow their businesses to support our operations.
So again we've got a great reputation with our subcontractors.
We appreciate them very much and we're trying to help them grow to support our business.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
My follow-up question was on the 2-year kind of cash on land purchases.
That was obviously -- that was extended at one point because the opportunity and the confidence you have around the housing rebound plus the opportunity set that you were facing suggested will you take on a little bit longer time frame in terms of cash-to-cash on land deals.
The question is -- and I get that you're seeing a lot of deals right now and there's a lot of good deal flow.
What I'm trying to understand is what would get you to push that out again? When is it not going to be 24 months cash-to-cash but maybe now it's going to have to get to 36 months or maybe something in between 30 months? Just give me an idea kind of the cash flow and the dynamics from the land perspective would be great.
I'd say we'd have to have increasing demand and increasing margins for us to take that additional risk of going from 24 to 36 months because as I've said on the conference call what we're focused on is prudently and profitably growing this company.
We've been to the movie before this was my fourth downturn and I think Horton's fourth downturn also.
Clearly the biggest risk in this business is land ownership for too long a period of time.
And I've mentioned to you I believe on other conference calls we started at 12 we're at 24 months and it's going to take increasing profitability and increasing demand for us to go to 36.
I personally don't believe seeing us buy anything that has a greater return than 36 months of our initial cash.
We can keep it for 36 months or less.
I think we reduced the risk profile of this company dramatically to position ourselves for the next downturn because clearly we're going through a small upturn.
And hopefully that upturn will grow.
But we all know one thing for certain there'll be another downturn on the horizon and we want to be positioned better for the next downturn than we were for the past downturn.
Research Division</strong> Is it creating limitation on the speed at which you can grow given that kind of -- given that overview? Absolutely no sir.
We have plenty of deals to do with a 2-year return of initial cash and no adverse effect on our growth at all.
All a matter of structuring the deal managing our land development plans efficiently and making sure that we're always focused on returning our cash.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Barrón of Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask you about your land strategy.
I guess land prices have moved up in certain markets or many markets this year.
And so I'm kind of wondering are you guys moving out further out where there's still cheaper lots? And are you also in some instances selling land that you think might be overvalued? Well we're not selling a lot of land right now.
We are seeing increasing land prices but they're muted.
We're still as we said focused on Alex our 20% gross margin underwriting hurdle.
I don't see increasing land prices adversely affecting our ability to do deals.
There seem like to be plenty of deals out there for cities our divisions and our regions to meet our growth expectations at this stage at an increasing gross margin level.
And I don't think we're intentionally moving further out.
We may selectively do some communities that are a little further out but our real focus is on staying in the A and the B locations.
If we do choose to do something that's a little further out it's probably going to be under an option contact where we've got a lot of flexibility and not through land ownership.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I also wanted to ask you about the kind of buyers that you saw this year.
I know you guys have that DHI Home Buyers Club so I'm wondering what percent of the buyers were people that came out of -- went through a foreclosure and were renting and now you guys turned them into owners again? And what percentage of the buyers might have been investors? Well I don't believe we have a good feel on who's an investor today.
I know that we in certain divisions have found there are certain hedge funds coming into specific markets.
Our regional presidents and division presidents have identified those.
And we're not interested in selling to -- our business is selling to people who are going to live in the home.
And one of our focuses in our communities is I think there are plenty of rental opportunities available in the country.
In our subdivisions where we're building selling and closing homes we're looking for home buyers who are going to be homeowners and who are going to live in that community.
They take better care of their home so it's something that we monitor pretty closely the best that we can.
LLC</strong> And on the Home Buyers Club? Home Buyers Club represented I think right at about 6% of our buyers this year.
Those would not have all gone through a foreclosure process though.
Just to be clear the last I had asked about that it was a very low single-digit percentage of our buyers that had actually gone through a foreclosure process and then were back in as buyers.
And most of our Home Buyer Club members Alex are people who are just not aware of how the financial system works.
And ours is largely an educational process to help them understand how the system works because they're being penalized by the system for not understanding how the system works.
And we explain to them how they can manage their credit better such that the system evaluates them properly.
Our next question comes from the line of Timothy Jones with Moloney Securities.
I go back long enough to the 1970s the mid-'70s when the speculators were coming in.
I remember one builder was getting individual speculators buying up to 5 homes in 1 subdivision and that builder threatened to fire any salesman that sold a spec home because he'll come back and bite you as competitors as prices go up.
You said yes you're monitoring the large hedge funds but how are you monitoring the relatively small speculator they'll buy 3 to 5 homes in the subdivision especially since only about half a little more have been half of your loans are coming through your own facilities? This can obviously turn into a bad problem if that gets out of line.
You said you're trying to monitor it.
I can understand the large hedge funds but how do you keep the smaller guys out from doing it? Tim first of all let me clarify that what I said about the hedge funds was -- is that we've been aware -- our regional presidents and division presidents have been made aware that certain hedge funds have come into certain of our subdivisions attempting to buy multiple homes.
But we and I are incapable of managing any hedge fund.
Those guys are a lot more pervasive and probably a lot smarter than we are.
But I think to answer your question directly multiple buyers in the same marketplace come up rather easily if it's the same corporation if it's the same individual.
So as a result what we're focused on once again and I don't know how we can do it other than being aware of who the person is who's the buyer.
And if it's multiple -- same name same family same LLC whatever that we are focusing selling to people who are homeowners and who are going to live in our communities largely because of the fact that you're right.
At some point in time we compete with them.
We don't want to compete with them.
And secondly we want to make sure the people who are buying our homes are enhancing our community by taking care of their homes and their lawns and a lot of those people who are investors rely upon and my brother can speak to this very clearly in New Port Richey Florida where there are a number of people who are in his cul-de-sac who were renters of assets owned by investors and that investors didn't maintain the homes when they were not rented.
And when they were rented the renters had a tendency to not take care of their homes either.
So it's something that we focus on.
We're going to do the best job we can but we can't eliminate all of them.
And Tim as we look across all of our markets right now we're really not seeing a lot of that activity right now but that's certainly something that's on our radar that we're on the watch out for.
A second question.
Talking to D.R.
about 18 months ago I had the impression that he wanted to pick up market share by increasing your trade up.
I understood it to be units not sales to trade up buyers by about 10 percentage points.
It looks like your first-time units have stayed roughly flat at 50%.
Why haven't you been able to increase this percentage on a unit basis not on a dollar basis? I think part what you're seeing in our product mix is the first-time homebuyer is a self-reported box checked on a mortgage application.
And while we have seen a consistent and actually declining from 2010 2011 to the current level of 49% percentage of first-time homebuyers some of the first-time homebuyers have waited longer to buy houses.
And so they're not buying your traditional first-time home.
So even though they may still be a true first-time homebuyer when they check the box the product that they're buying is at a higher price point.
So you're seeing the mix shift show up in our average sales price kind of regardless of what's going on with the first-time homebuyer mix.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen East with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> D.T.
you had really strong orders in the Southeast and the West and fairly low order growth in the Southwest and South Central.
Can you compare and contrast what's going on there? And how much of that is driven by lack of communities in the Southwest et cetera? Well I'd say the Southeast in particular is the fact that they have entered into a number of additional deals that the Southwest has not.
They've grown their community count at a faster pace than the Southwest.
I would also say to you that the Southeast has many more multiple markets than what our Southwest market does in terms of satellites and cities reporting to divisions and reporting to region.
The other thing I would say to you in terms of the West is that -- hard to believe hard for me to believe but California is improving.
And as D.R.
who was just recently out there in the last 2 or 3 weeks indicated that during the downturn we were struggling to get one net sale per community per month in California.
And currently we're getting a lot closer to one net sale per week per community.
And as a result the overall demand is just increasing in the West.
And given the state of the California economy I have no idea why that is the case.
But definitely our demand in California from our buyers is increasing.
And then Stephen with respect to the South Central that primarily is Texas for us.
Obviously Texas is our strongest area.
It has also been the most stable area.
It didn't go down nearly as much during the downturn.
We've seen it be our most consistently profitable area.
And to the extent that we're still able to grow that area and grow our market share in Texas we think that still represents a strength for our company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you all talked about whether you're buying A B or C lots within a market.
Where are you primarily allocating your total dollars by market or sort of rank ordered? I'm not going to get into really where that is.
Like I said earlier to the extent that I will get into it is is that if you take a look at the eastern half and the southeastern half of the United States that's where our community count has grown more dramatically than elsewhere.
And I think that...
Yes.
When we file our K we'll have our lot position by region and you'll be able to see which of the regions are showing the stronger owned lot increases and also the option lot increases.
Our next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Thinking about spec a little bit so you've got let's call it I guess 12 000 adjusted spec now.
And obviously you talked about ramping that up into fiscal 1 and 2 quarters next year given the selling season.
Can you talk about where that net '12 kind of might go to? And why not take it up even maybe even higher just given sort of the demand characteristics right now and the supply situation? Well we're prudently increasing our specs based upon the time of the year and market-by-market where we're seeing the best demand.
Increasing specs for this company is an easy thing and Bill Wheat is shaking his head over there.
But at this stage in the fiscal year we're running pretty much the right percentage we believe of our specs and we've got an effort under way in the company to start a number of specs over the course of the next 2 months.
And we're underway with that have been underway with that for the last 30 days.
And I know when you come -- when we report our Q1 spec percentage I wouldn't be surprised if that's not up closer to the low 50s to mid-50s percent.
Yes this is -- Jack this is ordinary course for us.
I would expect that we will have more than 12 000 homes in inventory at December and then into the January February March period.
Unless sales increase so dramatically that they continue to deplete our specs as we start them.
And that would be a great problem to have.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Is it to some extent somewhat of a margin protection plan at this point? Kind of wait to see what the demand looks like and kind of hold the line of margin? No it really isn't.
Because when we go start a spec our goal is 20%.
Obviously we're not at 20% yet but it's not really a spec.
It's not really a margin issue.
It's just where we believe we have the right number of specs.
And as you may recall realtors sell a large large percentage of our homes.
So we try to make certain in each community that we have the right number of specs to satisfy our realtor clientele because -- and relocation because the combination of people being relocated which is not as many as it once was.
But clearly our realtor business is still a big percentage of our business and they have one attribute in common.
They want to be able to collect their commission as quickly as possible.
And so as a result the spec inventory helps them accomplish that.
Yes and it's just managing the pace and the flow of our spec inventory.
Our actual total inventory actually went up from June to September which you typically would not see that in our business.
So we are starting to prepare.
But today is November 12.
The selling season will begin at the end of January so we still have a little time to continue starting homes and we will continue starting homes so we have a pace and a flow of homes heading into the spring.
The other thing our build-to-order business has continued to increase.
And so as a result what we are focused on primarily between specs and build-to-order is to get our build-to-order houses in the ground so that we can get them closed and satisfy those buyers.
And to that extent the spec starts are going to have to take a backseat to our build-to-order business.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question.
On the financial services side I think the margin came in a fair amount quarter-to-quarter.
Gain on sale margins still in the business pretty high.
Anything one-time or unusual there that brought the margin in? Nothing unusual at all.
Financial services anytime they're achieving greater than a 30% operating margin that's in a good range for us.
We have reached the allotted time for our question-and-answer session.
I would like to hand the floor back over to Mr.
Tomnitz for any closing comments.
Thank you.
Again D.R.
and I want to thank all of our DHI teammates for having muddled through some tough times in '07 '08 and '09.
We had made money in '10 and made money in '11.
But we congratulate you because in fiscal year '12 we made a profit in each quarter of the year and had a nice profit for the fiscal year.
So we couldn't have done it without you.
As Horton says it's all about the people and we sincerely appreciate all the people who have been with us through the downturn.
Obviously we've increased our hiring from -- we got down to a low of 2 700 teammates and we're up to 3 500.
So it's -- a lot of good things are happening at D.R.
Horton.
We welcome the new teammates and we look forward to a very good 2013.
And we hope that '14 '15 and '16 continue to improve for us.
So thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr.
Donald Tomnitz President and CEO for D.R.
Horton.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Senior Vice President.
As usual before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there's no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the day of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? D.R.
Horton is off to a great start in fiscal 2013.
This quarter we saw a broad improvement in demand in most of our markets which has given us the ability to raise prices in more of our communities.
Both the entry-level and move-up segments of our business are strong.
We're anticipating a good spring selling season and have added homes and communities to capture this increasing demand.
We continue to find opportunities to expand our business in our existing markets as well as new submarkets.
We put a significant amount of capital work this quarter by increasing our investments in homes under construction finished lots land and land development.
D.R.
Horton is in the best position it has ever been in its 35-year history.
Bill? In the first quarter our consolidated pretax income increased 270% to $107.9 million from $29.2 million in the year-ago quarter.
As a percentage of consolidated revenue our pretax income margin was 8.5% an increase of 530 basis points from 3.2% in the prior year quarter reflecting significant improvement in both our homebuilding and financial services operations.
Compared to the year-ago quarter homebuilding pretax income increased to $90.2 million from $25 million and financial services pretax income increased to $17.7 million from $4.2 million.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 38.5% which resulted in income tax expense of $41.6 million in the current quarter compared to $1.5 million in the prior year quarter.
Net income for the first quarter increased to $66.3 million or $0.20 per diluted share compared to $27.7 million or $0.09 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Our diluted share count this quarter included 38.6 million shares related to our convertible senior notes.
We expect these shares to be included in our diluted share count in most future quarters.
Stacey? Our first quarter home sales revenue increased 38% to $1.2 billion on 5 182 homes closed up from $884.3 million on 4 118 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Home sales revenues increased by double-digit percentages in all of our operating region.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $236 100 up 10% compared to the prior year driven primarily by pricing power and a larger average home size.
Don? The value of our net sales orders increased 60% from last year to the increased volume in home prices.
Our net sales orders increased 39% to 5 259 homes on a 9% increase in active selling communities.
Our average sales price on the net sales orders of $249 900 increased 15% compared to the year-ago quarter.
The average sales price on our net sales orders for the quarter increased by double-digit percentages in all of our operating regions.
The cancellation rate for the first quarter was 22% compared to 26% in the year-ago quarter.
The value of our backlog increased 80% from a year ago to $1.8 billion with an average sales price per home of $240 400.
Homes and backlog increased 62% from the prior year to 7 317 homes.
Our increased backlog is providing greater visibility to our future revenues.
We expect that our backlog conversion rate will continue to revert closer to historical seasonal norms.
For the second quarter we expect our conversion rate to be around 70%.
We've continued to see strong sales through January.
Mike? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the first quarter was 18.8% up 200 basis points from the year-ago period.
170 basis points of the margin increase was due to improving market conditions resulting in reduced incentives and higher average selling prices in excess of cost increases.
40 basis points of the margin increase was due to lower amortized interest and property taxes.
These increases were partially offset by a 10 basis point decrease from higher estimated costs for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenue.
Our expectation for our second quarter home sales gross margin is in the high-18% range consistent with the first quarter.
Stacey? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $140.8 million compared to $119 million in the prior year quarter.
As a percentage of homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A improved 200 basis points to 11.4% from 13.4%.
We are leveraging our fixed cost structure while at the same time building our sales and production capabilities where necessary to meet increasing demands.
In the second quarter of 2013 we expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues to continue to improve on a year-over-year basis.
However sequentially the absolute dollars and percentage will likely be higher in the second quarter than the first quarter due to seasonal cost increases.
We expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues to be lower throughout fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012.
The improvements in our gross profit and SG&amp;A percentages and a decrease in our direct interest expense expanded our homebuilding pretax margins to 7.3% in the current quarter an increase of 450 basis points from 2.8% in the year-ago quarter.
Bill? Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $17.7 million compared to $4.2 million in the year-ago quarter.
83% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations.
Our mortgage company handled the financing for 59% of our homebuyers this quarter with virtually all loans meeting eligibility requirements for sale to Fannie Mae Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 49% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter down from 57% in the year-ago quarter.
Our mortgage company's new borrowers during the quarter had an average FICO score of 717 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 90%.
First-time homebuyers represented 47% of the closings handled by our mortgage company this quarter compared to 50% in the year-ago quarter.
Mike? In September our construction in progress and finished homes inventory increased by approximately $227 million.
Our homes in inventory at the end of December totaled 14 200 homes up 1 200 homes from last quarter and up 4 000 homes from a year ago.
As of December 31 1 200 of our homes were models 7 400 were speculative homes and 2 400 of the specs were completed.
We have positioned ourselves to capture demand during the spring selling season with robust housing inventory and increased community count.
We expect our average community count for the fiscal year to increase at least 10% year-over-year.
Don? In our first fiscal quarter we increased our investments in land lots and development inventory by $613 million as we continue to find new communities and build our lot supply to meet increasing demand.
Our gross investments on land lots and development costs during the quarter totaled $912 million of which $340 million was to purchase finished lots $445 million was to purchase land and $127 million was for land development costs.
The majority of the land and lots we purchased were in our South Central and Southeast regions.
We saw an increased number of land and lot investment opportunities this quarter from landowners who are willing to sell at attractive prices if we're able to close the transactions by December 31 2012.
However we expect our pace of land and lot purchases will moderate while development spending will increase over the next few quarters.
At December 31 2012 we control approximately 177 000 lots of which 118 000 are owned and 59 000 are options.
30 000 of our owned lots and 30 000 of our option lots are finished.
The 60 000 total finished lots we control at quarter end are up 32% from a year ago.
Bill? Our total available liquidity at December 31 was $1.1 billion which included homebuilding unrestricted cash and marketable securities of $643 million and available capacity on our revolving credit facility of $495 million.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at December 31 was $2.3 billion and we had $100 million outstanding on our revolver at quarter end.
At December 31 our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash and marketable securities was 33% and our gross homebuilding leverage was 40.2%.
Don? In closing this first quarter which is D.R.
Horton's most profitable first quarter since 2007 with $107.9 million of pretax income.
All of our operating metrics improved on a year-over-year basis this quarter.
The value of our sales closings and backlog increased by 60% 38% and 80% respectively.
Our pretax income increased 270%.
Our pretax income margin increased 530 basis points to 8.5%.
Our gross margin on home sales revenue increased 200 basis points.
Our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues improved 200 basis points.
Our land and lot position is the strongest in our 35-year history.
And most importantly we're experiencing pricing power in many of our markets for the first time in 6 years.
Finally D.R.
and I would like to personally thank all of our D.R.
Horton teammates for their hard work and accomplishments.
We're excited by the certainty of the start of this new upcycle and by the opportunities we see in fiscal 2013 and most importantly beyond.
Keep up the good work.
Always remember nothing happens until we make a sale so let's go kick some tail to spring.
This concludes our prepared remarks and I will host any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Oppenheim with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You've talked a lot in terms of positive commentary in terms of just the activity as of late.
In recent times your land activity has been somewhat cautious in terms of looking for land that you'd work through in say 12 to 18 months.
How much more are you shifting the land strategy now so that you're buying land that will last for longer and will involve a lot more development activity here? Dan we're continuing as I said to add both finished lots as well as raw land.
Our underwriting criteria is still the same.
We're requiring our return of cash on our land deals to be 24 months the way that we're adding our number of lots is we're just doing more deals.
But we're focused on trying to get our cash back on our land purchases within 24 months of initial purchase.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in terms of the margins there's a comment about how margins are likely to be flat sequentially.
You also talked about how demand remained so strong.
Can you provide any color in terms of just the pricing strategy or the impact of cost increases in terms of materials and such and so what's -- how you're looking at that? We're clearly raising prices on each and every one of our communities on a house by house on a subdivision by subdivision basis.
I think we have a good focus right now because existing homes are in low supply and I think the quality of existing homes in the marketplace are not as good as what they once where as well as the fact that our new home inventory is one of the lowest it's been in 5 or 6 years.
So I think that's a confluence of events which is adding to our pricing power.
We do have costs which are going up in some of our markets and with some of our subcontractors but clearly our pricing power is exceeding the cost increases that we have today.
And just to add a couple of specifics to that Dan.
In terms of our sales price per square foot on a year-over-year basis that's up a little over 6%.
In terms of our total cost per home per square foot that's up a little over 3%.
So that differential there is what's driving our margin improvement.
Clearly our goal is to continue to drive improved margins to the extent we continue to see positive pricing dynamics there certainly is potential our margins will continue to move upward.
We took a very big step-up this quarter sequentially certainly and we expect we certainly had the ability to maintain that level.
And our goal is to improve it but in terms of guidance and what we can actually see in the next quarter or so we're comfortable saying we can maintain where we are at the high-18%.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Zener with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Given your -- kind of extension of the land question right before but as I look at your regional land positions both in terms of your options and owned land position as well as what are talking about in terms of your finished it seems like you're not as well represented on the coastal areas.
How do you think your thought process might work in terms of shifting a conservative capital allocation to the high-cost markets which I think are historically cyclical and can drive so much gross profit dollars? I mean do you think you might be underrepresented in the west let's say as opposed to where you were in the last cycle because of your conservative land approach? Well clearly in California we are proceeding more cautiously in that market than we have in others.
And primarily the thing that concerns us most about California is just the state of the California economy.
And so as a result we are looking -- continuing to look in California but I would say to you that we're approaching on a cautious basis.
We want to make sure the demand is there.
I know that there are a number of immigrants who are still moving into California and that's a good thing.
And so as a result I think there's good demand in most of our markets there but it's not as widespread in California as it is in many of our other coastal markets.
If you look at the Carolinas as well as Florida we have widespread representation in terms of all of the markets in those markets continuing to improve.
Whereas in California it's on a more selective basis.
Our largest operations are in our Southeast and South Central regions and a lot of those markets are coastal markets from the coast of Texas all the way around the Gulf Coast and including Florida.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
I appreciate that.
And I guess Stacey if you could expand on your SG&amp;A comments it seems to me given your backlog conversion I mean it seems like it's mostly flat sequential quarter.
What costs are there? If you're growing your 10% -- community count about 10% are there incremental G&amp;A costs related to those new communities or and is it hard to find labor? What are some of the challenges you're seeing as you guys are ramping up the business? There are minimal incremental costs associated with opening a new community.
Generally we're not doing the very very large master plan communities which we have a lot more upfront cost and infrastructure.
But as we open for sales we're going to need to hire a sales person as we begin construction.
We may be able to leverage a nearby superintendent but quite likely be hiring another superintendent.
So there's some level of overhead associated with that but it is truly variable with the community count which we always viewed as a positive.
Just as a point of reference from this time last year we've increased our employee count by 700 employees which is about a 22% increase.
And that's in direct response to the increased demand we've seen for housing and the increasing communities that we've opened.
So there will be an increase in SG&amp;A expenses going forward but we expect the revenue to fully and more than offset those expenses.
In terms of the comment seasonally second quarter versus first quarter there are some seasonal costs that are incurred ahead of the revenue.
In the second quarter we typically will advertise a bit more in the spring season that we may turn into closings in the third quarter.
So we will see more advertising expense in the second quarter as well as payroll taxes and a few things like that that increase when the calendar turns.
We typically will see a higher level of expense in the second quarter versus the first quarter seasonally.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Roxland with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can you just go into a little more detail on what you're seeing with respect to labor costs.
I know that you've mentioned in the past you have a strong labor pool to work with but what we've been hearing is increasingly about a lot of labor shortage in various markets across the U.S.
If you could go into a little bit of more color there? Well we're not actually experiencing a labor shortage that you're talking about.
One of the facts are clearly we're the largest builder and we have a major position in most every one of our markets and we have basically been the lifeline to most of our subs over the last 4 or 5 years as we've gone through the downturn and kept many of those subcontractors in business during the lean times.
So as a result we have a very loyal subcontractor base.
They're expanding their businesses as we expand.
As we expand into new submarkets we're taking most of our existing subs and they're supporting us in those new submarkets even submarkets that are several hundred miles away from our main market.
So we're very very fortunate with our subcontractor base and it's a very loyal base and we're not experiencing shortage.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just quickly as you continue to focus on the move-up market how should we be thinking about your land base and your approach to land acquisitions? Should we expect that you'll be putting a richer mix on a similar land base because obviously that would benefit margins or will you be sizing the homes to larger lots? It will be a combination.
In many of our markets with really the exclusion of California we are zoned for a variety of floor plans.
And as we see demand swing to more of a move-up buyer we simply build more of the larger floor plans and put a higher level of amenities in those floor plans.
At the same time we are also identifying through our land acquisition processes communities that will specifically be designed for move-up buyers whether it's the location or the price point that we'll be targeting across the board.
So it'll be a mix of increasing the home sizes in our existing communities as well as looking at different larger sizes of lots in new communities.
And actually we have a focus on a higher-end business line within D.R.
Horton and we're focusing on that business and growing that under a different name within D.R.
Horton.
And we're beginning to roll that out in major markets across the U.S.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on the 4Q orders themselves.
I think ahead of what we were looking for and I think what most we're looking for when you look at the acceleration from 4Q which was around 24% can you give us an idea if that was driven or just the year-over-year trends in general however you want to characterize it driven by community counts starting to turn positive year-over-year or was it all an acceleration in absorption pace? Because I believe over the past few quarters community count has been and correct me if I'm wrong here maybe at best up just a little bit or I think going past earlier into the past year it was even down a little bit year-over-year? I think clearly a lot of it had to do with the community count but almost also and most importantly Mike the fact that we were opening those communities that we had contracted for in the previous quarter or quarters.
Our people have done a great job region-by-region of acquiring new land positions and lot positions.
And a lot of those lot positions as we told you were finished lots.
We invested $345 million last quarter in finished lots.
So as a result just the fact that we've got more flags flying and they're finished lots and so they're coming to market a lot more quickly.
Just a couple of specifics.
Year-over-year our community count average community count was up 9% and our total sales units were up 39%.
So it certainly is -- a piece of it is new communities but clearly our absorptions are increasing as well.
On a sequential basis from Q4 to Q1 our average community count is up 2%.
So a slight improvement there.
So clearly any acceleration is largely being driven by improved absorptions across our communities.
Research Division</strong> Without a doubt but thanks for the detail.
The second question on pricing trends.
Don you mentioned in your opening remarks that you're raising prices in most communities and I was just trying to get a sense of people kind of ventured over the last quarter or 2 saying we're raising prices in half our communities 3/4 [ph].
I was wondering if you could give us a sense of the broadness of that trend? And also the degree of magnitude on average what would you say your nominal price is going up and also how much your incentives are coming down? Well first of all I wouldn't characterize it as we're raising our prices in most of our communities out there and -- that's a function as I said earlier of the low new home inventory 4.5 months of new homes available and also the low inventory of existing homes out there.
And like I said before and we've talked around here the quality of those existing homes in the marketplace are low compared to what they were in the past.
So as a result I think most people or a lot of people are being driven to new home purchases.
Research Division</strong> Any granularity on the degree of magnitude? I did -- let's say most is more than many.
Research Division</strong> The amount of the increase? Well our overall ASP was up 10% on our closings 15% on our sales.
So clearly it's in the double-digit range right now in terms of the overall increase.
If we're increasing in the majority of our communities and most of our communities then clearly that's a fairly substantial increase in our sales prices.
Stacey mentioned before that we had an increase on our revenue per square foot of about 6% for the quarter.
And part of that is product mix shifting and geographic mix shifting but part of that is our price increases as well.
I think the key is we have pricing power out there today.
And the pricing power I will go back to was being driven by the existing and new home inventories being at 5 or 6 year lows.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Rudiger with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just sticking with that pricing power commentary and maybe thinking a little bit longer term and there are some out there that believe the lack of available land the finished lots could be a bottleneck and could drive margins higher through the cycle than maybe you've seen previously.
So I was wondering what your thoughts on what maybe industry margins will look like as we march back to the magical 1.5 million starts number.
Well first of all we do not have an issue with finding land and lot deals.
We are a major player in most every one of our markets and we're an early player in most every one of our markets and began buying lots before the other competitors did.
So as a result people keep talking about the difficulty associated with doing new land deals and new lot deals.
We are simply not finding that.
We have a lot of deals coming through here in each and every division in each and every market.
And clearly we see some very good opportunities here in the near term over the next few quarters to able to drive margins to be able to drive pricing.
Where that goes longer term we don't really have a view on that because I think there's a lot of question marks around where it could go.
And there's a lot of differences by geographies as well.
So you could see some strong margin appreciation in certain markets that may be more a lot constrained whereas other markets wouldn't see that same level of margin appreciation.
We're going to walk before we run.
We're focusing on obviously our gross margins.
We're 18.8% this past quarter up 200 basis points and we're working toward our goal company goal of trying to achieve 20% gross margins across the board.
LLC Research Division</strong> So what would be your -- philosophically what would be your approach let's say if you had the 20% or even a little higher gross margin in the markets you wanted and you had the cost structure you wanted? So you were getting the margins you wanted yet it appears that maybe were a little more land constrained were trying to take pricing.
Do you think you would focus on stealing some share from them if you had those margins you liked or would you follow the price increases and slowdown pace maybe? We're obviously have been and continue to be a market aggregator.
And we'll continue to be in the future but focusing on profitable market aggregations.
So it's going to be a balance.
And we're looking at it on a subdivision-by-subdivision and our division presidents are looking at it on a house-by-house basis.
There are some homes the larger homes we can raise prices on today easier than we can than the smaller homes.
There's a better demand right now for the larger homes simply because people have low interest rates and they have attractive housing prices and most of the people in the marketplace today are trying to buy as much home as they possibly can.
So as a result I believe we're at much more -- we have better pricing power on our larger units than we do on our smaller units.
But it's a balance on a subdivision-by-subdivision basis.
Some of our subdivisions were eliminating plans because they're too small a plans they're not an attractive gross margin on the house.
And one of the things that we have always focused on in this company is not having a price leader in any one subdivision when we go out and build sell and close homes and make money on a house we're trying to make the same gross margin on each and every house.
It may not be the same dollars obviously but we're trying to make the same gross margins.
So we eliminate the lower gross margin houses as we proceed through a subdivision where we can.
Some states like California we have to build 4 plans and -- plan 1 2 3 and 4 and get to build the number that you plotted.
But in most of our communities and most of our divisions we have the flexibility to change our plans and eliminate them and add them.
We like our competitive position today with our ability to find new communities with our adequate land position our strong land position and pricing power in the market that gives a lot of flexibilities in terms of being competitive in the marketplace.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Locker with FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk to you about -- on material costs.
When they'll hit I mean with lumber bit of a lag if you're going to see more of a ramp on the material costs that hit your COGS let's say in your third quarter versus your second quarter.
Well typically what you would expect to see especially on lumber is that lumber prices will rise throughout the spring selling season and into early summer as the demand increases and then you would see prices moderate.
So it's entirely possible that you could see slightly higher costs flowing through in the Q3 and Q4 closings than in current closings.
However one of the things we try to do is lock in our prices for a longer period of time and use the volume that we have to negotiate favorable pricing with our supplier so we try to mitigate that cost at the same time.
And then in a rising price environment we're optimistic that we can continue to raise prices to cover the cost increases.
There are other categories there's talk of price increases.
Our goal is still to offset any price increases that we have to take with price decreases and other categories -- getting tougher to do that.
And then some of the headliners in terms of price increases we actually have price protection on the back-end.
So there may be a market price increase but we've locked our pricing through some of our national agreements.
And again because of our volume nationwide with our national contracts that we have we have some preferential pricing in that and that also helps us pushback because of our volume with our different vendors and our suppliers to push back on price increases.
We can't always do that but we're effective at it more times than you would think.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was just thinking with lumber just jumping up in the November December versus the spring period it just kind of made an early move so I was wondering if that might hit your second quarter or your June quarter versus your March quarter but...
We're very in touch with our lumber prices.
And as I get e-mails from our national purchasing managers we have as Stacey said been advising our division presidents on a timely basis about locking their prices on their -- or the costs on their lumber and extending those price locks for a longer period of time.
I'm not sure that we've mitigated every one of the price increases but I think we're doing a good job.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And last question on financial service revenue it was around 3.4% of your home closing revenue versus a year ago it was 2.4%.
Where do you think that will be -- what's a good run rate if you look at it as a percentage of home sale revenue? I know you sold a few mortgages that you have left over from the fourth quarter but just going forward because it's up significantly year-over-year? Clearly it's a very favorable market right now in terms of the gain on sale that's available in the market a lot of capital looking for mortgages.
So that's driving higher margins higher revenues per loan and you're seeing that across the whole of the marketplace.
One of the other drivers right now is our increase in our average selling price it goes up the average dollar per loan is going up as well.
So that's helping drive that.
But clearly the margins today are higher than historical averages.
Historically you would probably see closer to the 2% range or the low 2% would be the long-term average and today it's much higher than that.
We've got a good window right now just based upon the FICO scores the quality of the loans and the fact that the interest rates are low and the prepayment possibilities are low on these loans.
So as a result the purchases of those -- and investors in those mortgages really are buying mortgages at opportune time.
Even though they're paying a higher yield they're going to have a good yield on these mortgages going forward.
And Joel you make a good point.
I mean Q1 is typically one of our lower homebuilding revenue quarters but it's typically one of our stronger financial services quarters because we're selling a lot of the loans that we originated in the September quarter.
So as we move into next quarter and homebuilding revenues pick up and we're selling loans than we originated this quarter you may see that moderate a little bit.
Our next question comes from the line of David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question I want to talk a little bit about growth and I know you guys have touched on and Stacey mentioned some of the hiring you've done to support the growth as the markets rebounded.
But I wanted to take a little bit -- a bigger picture of you on it and what I want to talk about is controls as the market starts to get going again and things get better and better.
And really the question has to do with how difficult it has been to find people to add on? Presumably people who got laid off over the 5-year downturn have gone and found new jobs.
Are you finding it difficult to find good quality people to bring on board as the business grows? And what kind of training timeline do you need if you kind of think about the various jobs job functions that there are? Well actually we're not having a difficult time finding good people.
One of the things that we have done a good job of over the last 3 or 4 years even in the downturn is -- as an example our Division President and City Manager training program where we're bringing people up through the ranks and having them mirror the Division President or the City Manager that they're working for and D.R.
and I specifically sit down and the talk with those people a couple of times a year to make sure of their progress and how they're tracking.
But the other issue is is that because of who we are and the size of our company and the financial stability and the strong balance sheet that we have there are a lot of people who even outside the industry look at that type of -- those type of metrics and they want to join the company like D.R.
Horton simply because it's a good place to work and it's a good solid company.
So as a result we really don't have difficulty attracting people and most of our people we're bringing up we're bringing up through the ranks.
We just expanded into several new markets and we've taken players from existing markets that have been proven land acquisition people sales manager and people of that sort and put them in City Manager and Division President position.
So we've eyed this for a number of years.
We knew -- we kept our footprint we knew we're going to begin expanding at some point in time when the economy was cooperating with us.
And so as a result we're well positioned internally to continue to grow largely internally.
Research Division</strong> That's a very helpful color.
My follow-up question was DT about your comments on the entry-level segment showing strength it feels like maybe that's a little bit different than what we've heard even as we've gone through the upturn and it feels that we've gotten some momentum here.
Can you talk about what do you think is driving the entry level outside of -- maybe it's just there's just no existing home inventory so if they want to buy it's got to be on the new home market.
But then also as you look forward how does that change your land buying behavior in terms of where you're looking for lots? And as you move forward is the geographic footprint of your land purchasing going to change? Well I think that you're right in terms of where we are.
The -- excuse me I had a good answer for it and I lost it.
David the entry-level has always been a key part of our business.
Traditionally we ran 35% to 40%.
Through the downturn we moved up to 60%.
That's down through our mortgage company this quarter we ran about 47% first-time homebuyers.
It really doesn't change our approach to land.
It's just a continued extension.
Our approach recently has changed more to where we're buying for the move-up buyer because we've seen that segment come back.
The biggest thing that we're hearing from people who are buying today is they're looking at the rent versus own equation.
And in so many of our markets you can get into a home no tax effect whatsoever and have your payment for your house be less than your current apartment rent is.
And so that's a significant dynamic and we always come back to jobs too.
And while the job market is still not as dynamic as it was in the heyday it's shown improvement on a year-over-year basis and that's showing up in our results as well.
That was the point I was trying to make was on the apartment issue out there the reason that the new homebuyers are so attracted to buy a new homes is the apartment owners are raising rents dramatically.
And so as a result the cost benefit to own versus rent is very attractive to own today.
So as a result you're finding a lot of those people.
If they can get the down payment as I say beg borrow or -- beg it I guess.
I don't want use the third adjective that can be inappropriate.
But bottom line is those people are trying to get into a home.
And the other side of the issue is if they're trying to get that money from parents I have a number people who are helping their children get into homes because of the fact helping them with the down payment just simply because it's an attractive time to purchase.
Our next question comes from the line of Megan McGrath with MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just as a quick follow-up on David's question.
Given your increase in spec in anticipation of the spring selling season are you expecting that your mix to the first-time buyer could increase as we move to the spring selling season or are these different types of specs that you're targeting towards the move-up buyer? It's spread across the spectrum.
It depends upon the subdivision.
It depends upon the city.
And we're building specs at the entry-level all the way up to the higher end.
But again it's just subdivision by subdivision based upon what the market is in that particular part of that division.
But we do believe with our specs in inventory at the beginning of the selling season we are in a very strong position to be able to sell and capture the demand versus the competition in the existing market or other homebuilders who may not have as many homes in inventory.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just a follow-up on your land acquisitions I just wanted to specifically ask about Texas.
You talked a lot about your land acquisitions being in the South and Southeast I think you said.
We had heard through the grapevine that land prices in Houston and Dallas were reaching levels that they had seen at the peak.
I'm not sure if you're seeing that and just wanted to hear some color specifically on what you're seeing in that market since you're so big there? And we are the largest builder in Texas.
And clearly if you look at our various markets here we're not seeing those kind of land prices.
The underwriting that we're doing still is generating us in excess of 20% gross margins and we're achieving our return of capital on those land deals within 24 months.
And currently we find that land market in Texas is still attractive and we find the demand in Texas very strong.
So as well we continue to expand our existing number one position in Texas and we'll continue to do that.
Peak is a strong term to use for pricing of land in Texas.
We're much more topographically flat.
We just didn't see the run up here.
Our next question comes from the line of Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Don I wanted to go back to something really interesting you said earlier.
There's a widespread perception that there's a huge massive lot shortage out there and you said you're not seeing that.
I think that a lot of that perception that there's a lot shortage came from during the downturn whatever few buyers there were basically only wanted the most A-grade locations.
And obviously by definition there's going to be lot shortage in the most -- best locations.
So my question is are we seeing now with the housing recovery getting going here an expansion of demand kind of going out again beyond just the A-grade locations.
And obviously you guys being the biggest builder and having the broadest array of communities are we seeing that spreading of demand to those outlying areas again? I would say very marginally.
We're focused on -- are still doing A deals and most of the deals we're doing are in A locations.
So as a result we're just not seeing a lack of good deals in any of our markets and it's not on the periphery [ph].
Where -- It's the first area to slow.
And there are attractive price out there on the periphery [ph] but most of our markets were still on A and B locations clearly.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So then clearly -- actually let me ask something different.
During the downturn you guys had constrained pretty significantly the sort of deals you would pursue to limit risk right? Like you would pursue a smaller deal as small a deal as possible.
I think you had gotten under [ph] deals where your 15 20 lots let's say and then finished only.
Now clearly the deal sizes are getting larger and perhaps some more development work.
I was just trying to get a sense of -- I was just wondering if you could give us a sense of that transition how far it's gone and what your current kind of typical deal looks like? I would say our typical deal today is still probably somewhere around 100 lots and they're in A and B locations and we are able to continue to find those.
The larger deals even though we're doing larger deals we still are underwriting those to a 20% plus gross margin and a recapture of our initial land investment within 2 years.
And so as a result we believe that is a very very conservative land policy.
And on a go-forward basis we think we have very little risk in our land strategy in our land portfolio by continuing to abide by those 2 key metrics.
20% plus gross margin and a return of our capital in 2 years.
That's the characteristic of 99% of the deals coming to through company right now.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen East with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> DT you've given a ton of great information on this call.
And really outlining where you're going.
I just want to clarify if I heard a few things here.
One you're saying that price was much more of a driver than mix on your ASP and your move up is seeing better gross margins than your entry-level so you're moving further that way.
Is that correct? Let me clearly correct it if I said this but I know what I said we build an entry-level house or we build a move-up home.
We are shooting for essentially the same margin 20% as a percentage.
Now clearly the dollars are different based upon the sales price but when we go out to build a home we're looking for that 20% gross margin.
So we're still looking at the percentage of our move up of our homes that we've sold and closed in this quarter have moved up the scale.
And so I think 47% of our closings this past quarter were first time and the rest of them were move-up buyers and that's increased from -- the move-up buyers have increased by about 3 or 4 percentage points.
I think that goes back to what I said and that is our buyers are out there in the marketplace trying to buy as much home as they possibly can in a combination of size and dollars to take advantage of the low interest rates that's available in the marketplace today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then if you're targeting 20% gross and given the pricing power that you've got I assume that you all are bringing in more mothballed communities into the mix.
And if you are what type of margins are they generating relative to your new land deals? And yes we are selectively bringing in mothballed properties.
Obviously as the market begins to recover we still probably have several years 3 or 4 years to work through our mothballed assets.
But as the market improves we're comfortable that we'll work through the vast majority of those.
And to answer your questions directly on the mothballed communities our underwriting guidelines on those are somewhere around 16% gross margins.
We'll bring those back in and that's an acceptable margin to get the asset off of our -- land asset off of our books and blend that in with our other margins.
So it's somewhere around -- my metric is 15% 16%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
And one last question.
You all talked a little bit about materials the inflation.
Where are you seeing what categories are you seeing the biggest inflation other than lumber? Yes.
We talked about lumber.
I think another of the headliners over the last year has been drywall.
And there's talk of another price increase but it would be smaller than the one that was in place last year.
And beyond that there's just different categories and it's going to be different in the different geographies.
Now back to your point earlier just -- when we bring something back from mothball back into production the key metric for us is not the 15% or 16% but we want to absolutely be comfortable that we're not going to be looking at a future impairment when we bring that back into production.
So we're looking at the marketplace and seeing what the opportunity is to work our way through that on a timely basis.
How much cash will it take to develop it? Naturally that's a big part of it.
Stephen one other thing on the cost side.
We are using our volume and making some bigger commitments to individual vendors to help control those pricing increases and mitigate them for us as much as we can.
Research Division</strong> Are you seeing along those lines too on the labor side I know you said you're not seeing it.
Are you seeing subs willing to hire effectively just more generally across the industry? Absolutely.
And that's what I was describing earlier.
Our subs that we're going out into new submarkets with are hiring new people and creating new teams in order to satisfy our business.
So a beautiful thing about where we have been in our business and we've maintained our footprint and even our markets -- position in most of our markets almost all of our markets and that is is that our subs have been with us and they're willing to grow and expand because they're comfortable that they can grow and expand with us profitably.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question most of my questions have been answered but over the last several years I know that DT you and D.R.
have essentially split the country up in roughly half and have really had a very hands-on approach to managing your business.
And that's I think been very much to the company's benefit over the last several years at least.
As we look forward to a hopefully expanding market for quite a number of years and you increasing your volume at least at the industry rate if not more can you give us a sense for how you envision over the medium to longer term handling the management on an operational basis? Do you still envision it to be basically as you have it today or do you anticipate bringing in another layer of management? Well I'd answer that question and first of all say our Regional Presidents have been the main factor behind our success and our growth notwithstanding the fact that D.R.
and I are out there and we really didn't split up the country but we go to different parts of the country obviously at different times.
But our role has largely been to review and approve what they have been doing i.e.
the Regional Presidents have been doing with their Division Presidents.
So to the extent that we need to bring in another layer at one point in time we had another layer and when we're going to 100 000 units and then we had a little hiccup and we didn't need that layer of management.
So as we move forward if we feel necessary to add another layer of management certainly we're openminded to that.
But right now I want to make sure that everyone understands our Regional Presidents have really led us to where we are today with a little guidance and a little help from D.R.
and me.
Research Division</strong> So you haven't articulated either internally or externally what level of volume you think you can handle without adding back that layer of management.
And then I guess if that's true is there -- can you give us some general understanding has the -- let's say the systems in place at the company enabled you to operate at a higher volume with a smaller corporate footprint? Look Bill Wheat answered that question from a corporate perspective because he's very much closer to that than I am.
But as an example on a division basis at the peak in our Southwest Florida division I think we closed 800 homes and we have like 120 or 130 employees down there and we are currently come close --  somewhere close to that in the next fiscal year and we have substantially fewer employees and that's probably about half.
So I think what's happened is we've become a lot more efficient in the field but also at the corporate office we've become a lot more efficient.
Really across-the-board we do feel like we have gotten a lot more efficient.
We learned a lot of things through the downturn in terms of how we operate at our division level our regional level and our corporate level such that as we grow again we probably will not have to have the same level of overhead or infrastructure.
Systems are part of that.
We are on one operating system from a computer standpoint today.
We've deployed more technology into the field as well which allows people to do more with less.
So there are a lot of things that contribute to that that we do believe that down the line will pay very good dividends for us.
And a lot of our operating systems that we're using today we're developing in-house and we're not relying on someone else outside of the company to be able to do that for us.
So again we're in touch with our business from a corporate perspective better than we ever have been and developing things that actually fit our business and our company as opposed to trying to find someone outside of our industry to supply us with those programs.
And the bottom line is our industry is not big enough to attract a lot of software writers and so forth to develop programs that we need.
And to circle back to your comment on senior management at the region level and then at the corporate level the visibility of information on individual land deals on performance of projects to D.R.
and DT to corporate management to region management is far better that visibility is far better today than it was 6 7 years ago.
So the ability of our key managers to make decisions and view how our performance is is far better than it was in the last cycle.
Best information in the history of the company.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think that's a very important point.
And I think it also suggests that your ability to manage your SG&amp;A control which is something that you guys have always been leaders on the industry on will certainly be better this cycle than it was in the past cycle.
If I could dovetail on that the second question that I had for you related to the potential to manage your hard costs and labor costs also better through the evolution of technology.
It seems pretty clear that you can be able to manage maybe with less corporate staff for a given amount of volume.
But one of the things that we've begun to hear from some of your peers has been that the improvements in systems has allowed during the downturn has allowed these companies to approach the way that they bid out projects and get quotes for labor and materials such that the overall costs for development is less than it might have otherwise been prior to the cycle -- prior to this cycle.
And I was curious if you could talk about that whether you think there's any opportunity to use systems and changes in the way you do business to drive hard costs and labor costs down? You kind of touched on it earlier but it almost sounded like you were saying your subs are going to be reacting on gratitude to you in keeping prices down.
Don't get confused it has to be a win-win for both of us.
And I'm sure they're very grateful for our relationship as we are for our relationship with them.
But as an example we used to have the subcontractors come in to our offices and sit down with our purchasing managers.
We'd have 50 sets of plans and they'd all pick up the plans and they'd go out and they would bid off the plans on paper plans or bring the bids back in 2 or 3 weeks later and maybe they got that the maybe they didn't.
Almost all of our plans today are available through our subcontractors online.
We disseminate the information to them online.
There are specific bid sheets that they can fill the data in as opposed to pencil and paper process.
So we've increased our efficiency their efficiency and it's a lot more accurate system.
We know for sure all the items that are in the house whereas before when we're doing takeoffs it was more of rounding error.
Today we know every nail and every 2 by 4 that goes into each and every plan and it's a lot easier to bid it and control your costs that way.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask on the land you're acquiring if you could provide a sense for the average size of the deal or the typical deal for example the number of lots per community and whether that continues to increase? I think last quarter you suggested you're starting to see larger lot sales from banks and developers? Yes.
And as I've mentioned before the average size of our deal is somewhere around 100 lots as opposed to before it was probably 40 50 lots during the peak of the downturn if there is such a thing.
And also in '08 and '09 we hardly buying anything.
We started buying things in '09 and '10.
And when we started buying they were small deals just a handful of lots here and there.
But as we have bigger demands in most of our markets it's easier for us to get A subdivision with 100 plus lots in it we put a model in it and we have a flag and that flag is good for 2 years.
So that's what we are focusing on.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> As a follow-up do you have a sense for what percentage of your current land position was acquired post-2009? Jade if you look at our balance sheet if you look at the land that's held for development that's going to be the biggest portion of anything that we have owned through the downturn.
And there's probably some small portion that we're currently working through in the other 2 categories that most of what we are building today are 2009 purchases or later.
Our next question comes from the line of Buck Horne with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get into some of the regional categories of the sales strength.
And I was just wondering if there's any noticeable differentiation between market to where D.R.
Horton doesn't face quite as much public builder competition? I'm just I guess focusing on the Southeast region in particular where you had some really strong gains.
So I'm wondering like your places like Alabama and northern Florida were places where you got a lot of strength versus some of the other areas and maybe like Atlanta or Orlando or south Florida just understanding if there is more significant capital barriers between the publics and privates that are playing out here? The way I'd like to answer that question is that the State of Florida is a good market for us right now and that's clearly in the Southeast and also in Carolinas.
Those are good markets for us as opposed to markets where we don't have very much competition or very much public competition.
Virtually every one of our markets we get up every day and we have a ton of competition from the publics and the privates.
So I wouldn't say that we're capitalizing on any one market by the lack of competition.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more for you.
The thing about the mortgage industry here and the new rules and regulations that came out from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau there.
Have you guys been able to absorb and process what the new rules will have on your mortgage operation I guess particularly thinking about the 3% cap on points and fees.
Is that going to have any impact on the operation and will there come a point where you may consider actually selling your mortgage business? What's the net effect of all these new rules on the industry and your customers? Well the most important thing is that the standard for our qualifying mortgage turned out to not be much different than what the prevailing practices are in the market today so that's good news.
That provides some stability and some certainty around the mortgages for lenders out there.
And hopefully that will encourage some additional market participation and bring some more capital into the mortgage market.
In terms of some of the other provisions of the law specifically the 3% cap on fees there's a -- we're still absorbing that we're still analyzing that.
There's a year that we have in front of us before we would have to implement any of those before they take effect so we'll be analyzing that over time.
And at this point we don't really have any comment or estimates as far as potential impact.
Right now it's business as usual and we will work through those things over time.
Our next question comes from the line of Alex Barron with the Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to just ask a real quick question on the land.
You guys have answered most of my questions but most of the stuff you bought this quarter is that stuff that will be put into use this year or is that more like 2014 and beyond? Primarily 2014.
The raw land is obviously the finished lots that we bought will be put into play right away.
The raw land is entitled though and so we will begin working through the process of preparing for the land development part.
But as far as delivering homes on land purchases today that would be 2014.
LLC</strong> So it was obviously a pretty significant purchase although it sounded like you guys said to expect some moderation in the future quarters? Don't forget now Alex $345 million of that was finished lots that we purchased of the money that we spent.
And the other side of the coin is is that we are seeing good demand in most of our markets so it's time to step up and take advantage of the many opportunities that we see in the marketplace today.
LLC</strong> Now the fact that you I guess bought a lot of stuff versus your option position didn't increase that much does that mean that you're not finding a lot of people willing to option on the same terms as before or was it more attractive about actually buying the lots? Well Alex a lot of what we bought this quarter was in the option number last quarter.
Typically the process is we'll contract it and as soon as we've got something contracted it goes into our option number.
And subsequent to that 60 90 days later it gets purchased.
So what you saw there is that we did purchase a lot out of our options but then we replenished option supply with new contracts.
So no we haven't really seen a slowdown in terms of the number of new contracts we're seeing or option deals.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then in regards to -- you guys mentioned that you're seeing more demand coming from apartment renters because of the buy versus rent equation.
I guess my question is are you also seeing an increase in demand from these boomerang buyers the people that have been renting the foreclosed houses basically the people that got foreclosed? We've heard anecdotally of some of that activity but I wouldn't say that it's any large percentage of our business right now.
And back on your question on the land side of it the deals that rolled [ph] in that we are buying as I said before those are 20% plus gross margin deals.
And the deals that we primarily have bought in the last quarter were A-plus locations positioning us for 2014 and 2015.
LLC</strong> And last one for Bill if I could.
Any guidance on the remaining DTA reversal Bill? As of right now we still have $41.9 million of evaluation allowance on our DTA.
That solely relates to our state deferred tax assets driven by our NOL carryforwards.
And there are a number of the states we operate in that have very short carryforward periods and so we've estimated that we will not be able to earn enough income in those states to fully capture the full NOL.
And so that was an estimate that we made in fiscal 2012.
We will continue to monitor that estimate based on the income levels that we generate here in fiscal 2013.
If there's a point where we continue to perform strongly or performance improves versus where we are today then there's a chance that we could bring some portion of that back.
We will not bring all of that back though.
There is some portion that we will not receive because of the short carryforward periods in some states.
Our next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko with SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I was curious to -- with the outsized land investment in the quarter if you sort of thought of a percentage of that spend that was really tax-driven given the pending tax law changes? I couldn't give you a percentage.
There were a number of deals that we closed in the last 2 or 3 days based upon the seller -- of the calendar year based upon the seller's desire to miss the tax increase.
I wouldn't call it a significant amount.
What really took place was during the quarter we found a number of good deals and larger deals than what we had done in the past in order to capitalize on those to support the growth in our existing markets.
And there were a number of deals that we were working that perhaps under normal circumstances might have closed later in 2013 that due to the tax changes that the seller preferred or offered us the opportunity to close before 12/31 with a better price.
And so there's probably some acceleration of deals we were working on as well.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just another question.
Long shot would you be willing to give us finished lots by region? I don't have that in front of us here.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll assure that each one of our regions based upon the demand we're seeing and the profitability we're seeing on each region are adequately supplied to this point with the finished lots.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then on the Southwest I'm guessing that's a store count [ph] community count [ph] issue it looked like the growth was flatter there.
And we've heard obviously a strong commentary out of the Arizona market any comment there? Well we're trying to replenish our lot supply.
To be quite frank with you Phoenix turned around faster than we thought it was going to turn around and we probably are scrambling a little bit more than we normally would in the Phoenix market to replenish our lot supply and the same thing in the Albuquerque market.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Wetenhall with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could provide a little commentary on the conversion rate going forward? Backlog conversion rate? LLC Research Division</strong> You got it.
Well I believe we're pretty clear when we said that we anticipate it to be somewhere around 70% and that's back to a more normalized seasonal percentage.
If you look out over the last few quarters Bob it's consistently been slowing down.
And so our traditional pattern is that we would convert somewhere in the mid-50% range in Q1 and Q2.
So our actual reserve this [ph] quarter and our guidance for next quarter still have that elevated.
In the back half of the year we would traditionally trend down to the mid-60% range in Q3 and then be somewhere around 70% in Q4.
We will try to give you more visibility as we get closer but right now we're kind of watching how things settle out as well.
We don't have as many completed specs as percentage of our inventories so we're not experiencing the same number of homes that can -- under contract and then close in a really really short timeframe.
We're seeing an increase in our build-to-order jobs which are great from a margin perspective but they do stay in backlog longer.
We just don't know exactly what the timing is going off when all those convert.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
That makes sense.
You guys had a big move in your ASP for new orders into kind of like a $250 000 range.
Is that a good full year number to use for modeling? Is that kind of big uptick sustainable? Well I can tell you what we're seeing as I've said before on the call we are seeing buyers coming in trying to buy as large a house and the most house that they can qualify for given where the interest rates are and where the supply is going forward.
So I don't know if it's sustainable.
I actually think we might be able to increase it.
On the sale side.
On the sales side exactly.
If you look at what we just closed it was $236 000 and in our backlog it's right at $240 000.
So in terms of using that for a revenue average price that would probably be too aggressive.
LLC Research Division</strong> No I was just talking on the new orders but that's good color that's what I was looking for.
And a final question as you guys ramp for the spring selling season obviously there is some variable cost into the mix.
Do you think you can get full year SG&amp;A inside of $650 million? Well first of all we are ramped up right now for the spring selling season.
It all depends on volume levels.
We don't have an estimate or guidance on the dollar amount that we're going to spend because some of that is variable it depends on where our sales go and where our volumes go.
Clearly our long-term goal on SG&amp;A is to drive it to 10% of homebuilding revenues.
That would be a big jump this year.
We're probably not going to get there but we do expect to still see substantial improvement in our SG&amp;A percentage this year as we did in the first quarter.
Mr.
Tomnitz we have no further questions at this time.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you.
And D.R.
and I want to make sure that all of our DHI teammates out there are aware of just how proud we are of what you did this last quarter.
But most importantly we want you to be aware that we're very very proud of the accomplishments that we've made over the last 4 years.
This company went from '07 through '10 and '11 and those were tough years.
And for us to produce and for you to produce the kind of performance that you did in this first quarter is a magnificent accomplishment and we thank you very much.
Now let's go out there and kick tail.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States second quarter 2013 earnings release conference call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now pleasure to introduce your host Donald Tomnitz President and CEO for D.R.
Horton.
Thank you Mr.
Tomnitz.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Senior Vice President.
As usual before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities and Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there's no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the day of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? The spring selling season is in full swing especially for D.R.
Horton.
Demand for homes has strengthened and the relative available housing supply has shrunk which has created a favorable pricing environment.
Our first-time buyer demand remains very strong and we continue to see improving demand for our move up buyers.
We are well positioned to meet the increasing demand across our broad geographic footprint with our inventory of homes available for sale and with the land and lot position we have accumulated over the past 3 to 4 years.
Our team of operators across the country delivered an outstanding second quarter.
They generated significant sales and revenue growth along with substantial improvements in profit margins and returns which resulted in our pretax income more than tripling last year's levels.
Overall the first half of fiscal year 2013 was nothing short of phenomenal and we expect the second half to be even better.
Bill? In the second quarter our consolidated pretax income increased 236% to $142.1 million from $42.3 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our pretax income as a percentage of consolidated revenue was 9.9% an increase of 550 basis points from 4.4% in the prior year quarter reflecting significant improvement in both our homebuilding and financial services operations.
Compared to the year-ago quarter homebuilding pretax income increased to $127.4 million from $34.6 million and financial services pretax income increased to $14.7 million from $7.7 million.
Net income for the second quarter increased 173% to $111 million or $0.32 per diluted share compared to $40.6 million or $0.13 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Our net income for the quarter included a noncash tax benefit of $18.7 million from a reduction of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax asset.
Mike? Our second quarter home sales revenues increased 47% to $1.4 billion on 5 643 homes closed up from $930.6 million on 4 240 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $242 500 up 10% compared to the prior year driven primarily by pricing power and to a lesser extent by a larger average home size.
Don? The value of our net sales orders increased 52% from last year due to increased volume and home prices.
Our net sales orders increased 34% to 7 879 homes on a 15% increase in active selling communities.
Our average sales price on net sales orders of $253 400 increased 14% compared to the year-ago quarter.
The cancellation rate for the second quarter was 19% compared with the 22% in the year-ago quarter.
The value of our backlog increased 76% from a year ago to $2.4 billion with an average sales price per home of $249 800.
Homes in backlog increased 54% from the prior year to  9 553 homes.
Our backlog conversion rate for the quarter was 77% compared to 94% in the prior year quarter.
We expect this rate to continue to revert closer to historical seasonal norms.
For the third quarter we expect our conversion rate to be in the low 70% range.
We have continued to see a solid sales pace.
Stacey? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the second quarter was 20.4% up 280 basis points from the year-ago period.
210 basis points of the margin increase was due to improving market conditions resulting in reduced incentives and higher average selling prices in excess of cost increases.
40 basis points of the margin was due to lower amortized interest and property taxes and 30 basis points was due to lower estimated costs for warranty and construction defect claims add the percentage of home sales revenue.
Sequentially our gross margin on home sales revenue improved 160 basis points of which 30 basis points was due to improving market conditions.
The additional 130 basis points of the increase was due to lower relative cost for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenue with approximately 40 basis points of the 130 due to a higher level of cash reimbursements of previously incurred litigation cost received during this quarter as compared to our Q1.
We expect to see continued improvement in our home sales gross margin from improving market conditions for the rest of the year.
For the third quarter we expect a home sales gross margin of approximately 20%.
Mike? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $155.1 million compared to $127.5 million in the prior year quarter.
As a percentage of homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A improved to 240 basis points to 11.2% from 13.6%.
We are leveraging our fixed cost structure while at the same time building our sales and production capabilities where necessary to meet our increasing demand.
We expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues to be below 11% for the remainder of the fiscal year.
The improvements in our gross profit and SG&amp;A percentages and the decrease in our direct interest expense expanded our homebuilding pretax margin to an industry-leading 9.2% in the current quarter an increase of 550 basis points from 3.7% in the year-ago quarter.
Stacey? Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $14.7 million compared to $7.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
86% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations.
Our mortgage company handled the financing for 58% of our homebuyers this quarter with virtually all loans meeting eligibility requirements for sale to Fannie Mae Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 49% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter down from 57% in the year-ago quarter.
Our mortgage company's new borrowers during the quarter had an average FICO score of 723 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 90%.
First-time homebuyers represented 47% of the closings handled by our mortgage company this quarter compared to 49% in the year-ago quarter.
Bill? At March 31 after considering the impact of our improving profits we concluded that it was more likely than not that we would realize more of our deferred tax assets from state net operating loss carryforwards before they expire than we previously anticipated.
As a result we reduced our deferred tax asset valuation allowance by $18.7 million in the quarter which reduced our income tax expense this quarter.
Mike? Since December our construction in progress and finished homes inventory increased by approximately $207 million.
We had 15 800 homes in inventory at the end of March up 1 600 homes from last quarter and up 4 700 homes from a year ago.
As of March 31 1 200 of our homes were models 7 600 were speculative homes and 2 300 of the specs were completed.
We expect to continue to increase our homes in inventory to meet demand and we expect our average community count for the remainder of the fiscal year to remain 10% to 15% higher than last year.
Don? In our second fiscal quarter our investments in lots land and development cost totaled $460 million as we continue to find new communities and build our lost supply to meet increasing demand.
Of the $460 million $217 million was used to purchase finished lots $110 million was to purchase land and $133 million was for land development cost.
We expect our development spending will increase over the next few quarters.
At March 31 2013 we control approximately 175 000 lots of which 120 000 are owned and 55 000 are optioned.
30 000 of our owned lots and 28 000 of our optioned lots are finished.
The 58 000 total finished lots we control at quarter end are up 23% from a year ago.
Bill? Our total available liquidity at March 31 was $1.7 billion which included homebuilding unrestricted cash of $1.1 billion and available capacity on our revolving credit facility of $559 million.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at March 31 was $3 billion and we had no cash borrowings on our revolver.
$172 million of our notes mature in May 2013 and we have a total of $317 million of senior note maturities in the next 12 months.
At March 31 our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash was 33.7% and our gross homebuilding leverage was 44.7%.
Don? In closing this quarter was D.R.
Horton's most profitable second quarter since 2006 with $142 million of pretax income.
All of our operating metrics improved dramatically on a year-over-year basis this quarter.
The value of our sales closings and backlog increased by 52% 47% and 76% respectively.
Our pretax income increased 236%.
Our pretax income margin increased 550 basis points to 9.9%.
Our gross margin on home sales revenues increased 280 basis points.
Our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues improved 240 basis points.
And we are continuing to experience pricing power in many of our markets as evidenced by a 14% increase in average sales price.
D.R.
and I would like to personally thank all of our D.R.
Horton teammates.
We have accomplished all of this with only a 29% increase in employees year-over-year.
Our team is consistently the most efficient in terms of closings per employee.
And I'm really pleased to share with you that this quarter we sold more homes closed more homes generated more revenue earned more PTI and had a higher PTI margin than any other builder.
We are in a great position as a company.
We will clearly in 2013 be the homes closed revenue PTI and PTI percentage leading builder for the year.
As used to say stop for a moment and we should smell the roses for our major accomplishments.
We'll get right back to work so we can continue to outperform our competition.
D.R.
and I thank you for the great work.
This concludes our prepared remarks and I will host any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Dan Oppenheimer from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You're talking about the land investment there saying that could more in terms of development.
There is so much in terms of the purchases during the fourth calendar quarter of last year's in tax related sales I think that sort of benefit you in the purchasing side.
How much do you think of that in terms of just adding more land versus just developing what you currently have? What we're focused on clearly Dan developing what we have.
Obviously our goal is to bring what we've purchased especially in the last calendar year into production.
So as we say built so close homes and make money on those units.
We are continuing to add land deals and anticipating obviously developing those in markets where the option lots are becoming shorter and shorter in supply.
Clearly based upon the number of option lots that we added to our portfolio we were able to still find option lots never finished and finding also developed lots on our on-option basis.
But there are markets where we're going to have to supplement the third party developers as well as the finished option lots with land that we have to bill for ourselves.
And of course we've been very adept at that over the years.
Given the sales pace we're seeing the demand we're seeing the pricing dynamics we're seeing we would expect to still be investing strongly in finished lots land and development in the coming quarters as we have been so far this year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And in terms of just the margins.
I think you talked about then doing -- pushing pricing with the average selling price up.
How are you sort of -- we've heard lots of different thoughts from -- the course of effects of this week here in terms of the earnings releases from different builders.
In terms of the thoughts on pushing a price versus continuing to increase absorption at this point.
How are you balancing the 2 right now? Well clearly you can see that we increased our sales and our closings this quarter dramatically.
All the while we're dramatically improving our margins.
We think we're in a wonderful position.
There is a shortage of finished homes on the marketplace.
So not only with our good inventory of specs that we consistently have maintained in this company we will continue to push price as well as volume.
Clearly we've said before our goal is improve the bottom line better than we improve the top line.
But nevertheless we are in a position where we can do both.
Our next question is coming from Stephen East from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> To follow on what Dan was talking about on the land side maybe a little bit more what are you all seeing in the pricing of land? And are there any markets that it's just very difficult to make land pencil and then if you look at your communities that you're opening right now and that you've got open how many -- what percentage of that is previously mothballed? Or that either you're already in or will be opening? Actually I was on the phone with one of our regional presidents this morning David Auld and we were talking about how we are very fortunate that we were early mover in terms of finding land positions 1 year ago and 2 years ago because our basis in that land to answer your question directly is very attractive relative to where pricing is in land today.
Specifically land prices have escalated in most markets rather dramatically over the last 6 to 12 months.
We're very conservative in terms of our approach because we don't need to buy that much new land to support what we see over the next 2 years as our net sales and our net closings.
But clearly land prices have gone up.
As far as mothballed assets go in terms of deliveries on mothballed assets that still a very small amount of our overall deliveries.
But we are certainly with the improved pricing environment improved demand we are bringing -- starting to bring more mothballed communities into our production.
So we will see some impact from that and that's certainly a very good source of capital for us as we will not have to purchase the land.
We'll just have put to the development costs in.
You will see that on our balance sheet.
Our land held for development balance declined this quarter down to 602 million as compared to 630 million last quarter.
And we would expect to bring even more projects out of mothball over the coming quarters as things continue to improve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we go back to -- you talked about the majority of your pricing was true pricing power not mix shift.
Could you give us a little more color on that? And just what you've are seeing on the cost side? So we can understand what type the magnitude you have on pricing power versus cost inflation? Certainly there's cost inflation out there.
One of the things that we've been able to do clearly is raise prices faster than what our cost have been going up.
To control our cost both on a national regional and then also on a division-by-division basis At this point we are still clearly the largest builder in the clubhouse.
And by virtue of that we have more purchasing power than most of our competitors.
And it's been a focus of this company for years to focus on our sticks and brick which is what we're doing.
In terms of specifics on the pricing power versus mix shift our average selling price per square foot year-over-year for this quarter increased 7.6%.
The average square footage of the homes that we closed this quarter increased 3.7% from last year.
So that's a mix between pricing and size of the home.
In terms of our cost increases those were up on a per square foot basis 3.8% year-over-year.
So we still have a very good gap between our selling price increases versus our cost increases.
Our next question is coming from Michael Roxland from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on a comment you made on the last call regarding California.
I know you had some reservations about investing there due to the economy and really the fact that there's not been a widespread housing recovery in that state as compared to some of the other states how you're involved in -- are you still witnessing those same types of issues that you witnessed in this past quarter? What occurred since then? Because it certainly stands in contrast with some of your peers have been indicating.
Well obviously we're more conservative last quarter in California.
But the record speaks for itself this quarter.
And California for us is doing very well now.
We've made some major investments in land and lots over the course of this quarter.
And we're well positioned to capitalize on what is turning out to be a better-than-expected California housing recovery.
Research Division</strong> And do you happen to have a sense of like what's driving the recovery in California? Can you talk to us of some of the specific markets that you're -- within the broader State of California that are doing well for you? Well I'm going to refrain from speaking about any specific markets again I promised myself that a couple of years ago.
But I would say to you I think what is driving -- in the Bay Area clearly technology is still driving that market as well as what I've understood is there are a lot more money managers in the Bay Area over the course of the past 2 years actually employees managing the money of the technology industry in Northern California.
And in Southern California I think it's just purely people buying homes because they're more affordable than they have been in a long long period of time.
So there are people who are able to sell their homes for the first time in a long time.
And then they're able to either trade up and downsize and capitalize on the potential having more appreciation in a new home versus the existing home that they are currently living in.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just quickly Don.
I know you mentioned briefly in your comments that trends that you've seen thus far in April have persisted.
So it sounds like there's really been no change in momentum so the sales pace has been relatively consistent thus far in the fiscal third quarter.
Absolutely.
Our next question is coming from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> The first question I had was on the gross margins.
You mentioned that price continues to outpace cost and the break out of that was very helpful so thank you for that.
At the same time you're looking at gross margins flat sequentially going into the third quarter.
And certainly I understand part of that and perhaps it's with timing of the warranty cost that helped you sequentially this quarter.
But at the same time would it be fair to say as long as these trends continue that -- and I don't know if 4Q is too premature to talk about.
But as we look into next year that the 20% at least for the rest of this year's sustainable and as long as a trends hold we could expect some further expansion into fiscal '14? Yes it all comes into what's your in your crystal ball Mike.
If trends continue if we continue to see double-digit pricing increases we would expect that margins would continue to increase.
But when we're looking at a land deal we don't factor in future price appreciation into our assumptions in order to justify a land deal.
We take a similar approach in our overall expectations in the business.
Certainly if things continue at the pace we'll see some further improvement.
But based on what we see right now.
what's in our backlog? We're comfortable with our guidance for next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Also Don you made an interesting comment at the beginning of the year -- at the beginning of the call rather about first-time buyer demand remaining very strong but move up demand improving.
And maybe not to read too much into the exact word word-by-word but most of the builders have kind of talked about over the past year really the move up buyer being the strong element so far and more waiting for the first-time buyer to come back or demonstrate the same type of strength that the move up has.
Then it almost seems like your comments were in reverse that the first time was more the bed rock remaining very strong and the move up improving.
So am I reading that right or interpreting that right? And is the first time better for you guys than maybe you feel some of your peers are? And are you just there for -- but on the move up side more aggressively addressing that market given the strength there as well? Yes to answer your question.
As you know we have focused on the first-time buyer for years at  this company and we still believe that's the largest component of the home market.
And we are priced very competitively in the marketplace and can compete and we're able to offer buyers who are moving out of apartments and more attractively-priced home due to our low cost and our volume.
So it's natural for us given our size to be able to offer a more competitively priced first-time home buyer opportunity for those people moving out of their apartments.
And as mentioned to you probably 1.5 years ago we began a significant focus on the move up buyer and we are penetrating that market very well.
And we expect that part of our business to continue to grow as it has.
Research Division</strong> Great I appreciate it.
One last quick one if I could.
The financial services profit ticked down about $3 million sequentially despite homebuilding revenue up and land financial services revenue flat anything going on there? And how should we think about that in terms of the profitability going forward? Our financial services segment has slightly different training than the home builder because a lot of their revenue is recognized when they sell the loans.
So at the end of the fourth quarter our calendar fourth quarter they have very large mortgage loans held for sale balance which then they sell during our first quarter and recognize that gain on sale.
But that -- their mortgage loans held for sale at the end of the December quarter are lower and so the amount of gain that they recognized this quarter is a little bit lower.
It's just a timing difference.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that could -- drift up a little bit throughout the rest of the year? Yes if there's mortgage loans held for sale.
It could drift up if market conditions and the margins hold.
Our next question is coming from Ken Zener from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the mix in gross margins? Your ability to build and sell spec homes is obviously it helped you absorb a lot of fixed SG&amp;A costs through the bottom.
But I think there's still a misconception among investors that spec homes have to be at a lower margin than the homes in backlog.
We think it actually can be an area that's giving you upside on gross margins these  homes that you built in January are locked in backlog at a certain price but actually go up as the market goes up? So could you talk about the spread in spec first backlog how much that impacted your second quarter results? And if your 20% number is just focused on your backlog margin expectations as opposed to what might flow through on spec homes? I'll let Bill handle the second part of that question.
Frankly where we are today we see a shortage of finished new homes in the marketplace.
So by virtue of having that specs that we have out there we have tremendous pricing power on our specs.
We have a number of people who are listing their homes.
And as one of our people in the legal who runs our environmental for us he listed a home and had 4 offers in 3 days.
So people are listing their homes and selling them a lot more quickly than what they've anticipated.
And to the extent that we have spec inventory that we have out there which has been tradition in this company then in essence we have had significant pricing power in our specs.
Our specs used to be slightly less in terms of margin than our build jobs and that has semi-reversed itself.
Recently we have seen some trends where some spec margins have been higher than pre-sales.
We don't expect that would be the long-term trend.
But in an environment where we're seeing rising pricing that certainly can happen.
And obviously with our spec inventory then that's certainly a benefit to our margins right now.
As a matter of fact currently with our sales demand we're having our spec level is slightly lower than what we preferred to have it because we as we release it we're selling more rapidly than we anticipate.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe give us a little of context then to -- not necessarily the peak in '05 but what it was doing in '03 '04 what is common a for a spec to be in line with your backlog homes? Or was your backlog tied to some optionality always a bit higher? If you could give us a context that would be appreciated.
Ken we don't have the specific data on that from that period.
But I would suspect back in a period when there were significant pricing increase we're probably some seeing a similar trend to what we're seeing right now.
As a matter of fact back then we were hoping that people would cane [ph] and we could resell the home for more.
We're not in that concurrent situation but currently we have adequate number of specs out there to meet the demand.
We're trying to increase our specs because we anticipate increasing demand.
And to the extent as I said that we have a home ready for a buyer who sells her home more quickly than anticipated it's great position.
And please don't forget realtors are a large percentage of our sales.
And realtors like one thing.
They love to collect their commission more quickly.
So when you have a spec home they can typically collect their commission within 30 to 45 days as opposed to if they sell a build job they're having to wait 3 to 4 months to collect their commission.
And as we have long said the key to being successful with specs is to manage them very carefully.
And obviously it's been part of our business model for a long time.
So even though we're in a period right now where we're seeing rising prices we're still going  stay disciplined and we're going to manage our specs effectively.
Our next question is coming from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Don I have a big picture question and you've kind of alluded to that some of the answers a little bit but I want to ask you more concisely despite the likelihood I think that we're probably in the early innings of a multiyear recovery it looks like now you and some of your peers are already starting to generate what you I think you would consider normalized margins.
And so to me there's somewhat of a disconnect there.
And so I was wondering what you thought about what that means for the next few years? In terms of already achieving what might be a normal margin well ahead of kind of mid-cycle or normal production levels? We're not going to argue with having achieve it earlier than we anticipated because it's a beautiful thing after the last 5 years in our industry.
And I thought about what your question is and not to be negative but to be realistic our margin increases have been dramatic to the extent that we're able to improve our margins as much in the future as what we certainly have done in this past quarter.
You'd have to probably question this to whether we could improve them that much on a go-forward basis quarter-after-quarter-after-quarter.
Clearly as we continue to do the volume that we're doing I'm so proud of our people because we clearly will be the leader in the clubhouse both on units as well as revenue this year.
We are definitely experiencing more purchasing power than our peers.
And that's really our goal.
Our goal was always been to keep our SG&amp;A as low as possible in this company but also to be very proactive and controlling our stick and brick costs.
And our volume helps us do that dramatically.
And if you look back over history through cycles even though we talk about a normalized margin of want to be a 20% gross 10% SG&amp;A 10% on the bottom line.
What we have seen during the up part of the cycle in the past when pricing has been going up as we have seen margins above that level.
Over the long-term average it kind of averages out to the 20 but we've certainly seen periods where it's been above the 20.
And we're hopeful if trends continue that we'll see some of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess Bill interesting point you talk about that above 20 man looks like without having perfectly checking that model looks like those years were really just the exceptions for 2004 '05 and '06.
And so what I'm kind of wondering is if we think that that's going to repeat itself in terms of the margin potential? Or is the goal to be big and the goal to be -- scale your markets and the goal to take market share going to kind of erase a little bit of that margin potentially or cap it? The goal is always to strike the best balance.
Scale and volume helps drive some efficiencies and helps drive some bottom line profitability and margins and returns.
But we'll always want to balance that so I don't think one supersedes the other.
I would say after being in the industry for 33 years and I'll celebrate my 30th anniversary at Horton in August 20% and 10% and 10% is pretty much a -- it's a good return.
And to the extent that our gross margins are higher than that and our SG&amp;A is lower I think to a certain extent that's largely an anomaly in this business.
And you're going to have years where you're going have to do that and you better pack away the earnings and stick them away for the days when you're going to be back to 16% to 17% margins.
So clearly I think where we see the business year-after-year-after-year if we can maintain a 20% gross margin a 10% SG&amp;A and 10% at the pretax line that's a beautiful scenario.
You take it when it's better but you don't get too caught up in it.
And we do think this is a period of when it's better because there is a shortage of supply compared to the current level of the demand on housing.
And we alluded earlier we are seeing land prices increase because there's a shortage of finished lots available to construct the houses.
So we've got that inventory.
So we think we can take advantage of the current environment and increase our margins on going forward.
We don't have to go out and buy land at today's prices.
To hit any sort of growth targets we will still reinvest.
But we're in a very good position on land.
We already own houses that we can build and put in inventory to deliver strong growth and strong margins.
Our next question is coming from Susan from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back and I have a land question but I want to ask you on a slightly different way.
In the sense that as you buy more land that needs to be developed how does that inhibit your ability to adjust your community count growth? And given that -- maybe not for this year so much but in terms of thinking about maybe up to 2014 and going forward how you balance the need to have lots that can be delivered more quickly to be more flexible to community count relative to needing to develop land? Well I think as the market recovers there'll be a -- another party that enters into the fray and that will be the third party developer.
And so as a result in the past we've always had a good group of third party developers who've had helped us provide lots for our lot inventory.
Obviously with the banks over the last 5 years and they're beginning to slightly increase their lending but we are seeing third party developers qualifying for development loans.
So as a result our existing land development will be augmented by third party developers.
And that would continue to increase as the market continues to improve because as the housing market continues to improve there's no doubt in my mind that the banks will begin lending once again.
There is certainly a longer lead time to opening a community when you buy land and have to develop it yourself versus buying finished lots.
But it's a very local decision.
And each one of our operators in the local markets understands where their positions are where their communities need to be replaced and where their accounts make sense to add.
And they account for that lead time in planning to buy land and bring it into production at open communities.
So it is definitely a difference in timing.
But as Don said before we expect there will be other opportunities that may not exist work today for some finished lot developers to be in place to help support our growth as well.
That's one of the reasons we give you our finished lot count and not just our total lot count.
Because with 58 000 finished lots we should be able to have ascend time to adjust to demand levels that we're seeing and react without running out of lots.
I assure you one thing we won't do we will not run out of lots.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
In terms of the third party coming back in are there any specific markets where you're seeing that maybe take hold more than in other areas? Susan I'm just -- I made myself a promise I'm just not going to get market specific because I -- over the past years I think it's benefited our competitors more than it has our analysts.
So as a result you want to follow up with that question with Stacey or with Jessica later they'll try to help you with that.
Our next question is coming from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the land spend what percentage of the option exercises on deals that you tied up in the past? Well any deal where we bought finished lots it would have been tied up under an option contract.
We don't have the aging of when the contracts were signed though in terms of the buys or anything like that.
But clearly it's still a substantial portion of our spend was on finished lots.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the -- are you see if developers increasingly look to build participation into the option deals with their structuring? I've seen that decrease firstly reviewing every land deal in the company along with Bill and Stacey we'll tell you that 2 years ago and even a year ago we saw a more proper participation from developers than we are today.
And I don't know why that is but we're not seeing very much of it today.
And every time we have a chance we push back on that because we deserve the upside.
And so -- but not as much today as what it was 1 1.5 years ago.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just wanted to ask on SG&amp;A.
Simple question is how do you look at the growth on SG&amp;A on a year-over-year basis? This quarter's growth was less than half of the revenue growth and do you expect that kind of relationship to continue? That's pretty good.
Our long-term target on SG&amp;A is 10%.
And we're certainly rapidly moving in that direction.
And we would expect if things continue we will get there.
Maybe not quite this year but we will get there.
And as we grow we certainly have to add infrastructure.
We have to add people and as we add new communities we add expenses.
But there have been periods where we've been below 10% when we've seen a lot of pricing increases.
And so we could see a period below 10% but again 10% is a long term average.
We're still striving to get there.
We're starting to see a very good SG&amp;A leverage toward the back half of last year so continuing to see the same level of year-over-year improvement of that same ratio you mentioned between incremental revenue and SG&amp;A is -- would probably be a little bit aggressive.
But we do feel that we are working our way back down toward the 10% and as we said we expect to be under 11% for the balance of the year.
And please don't recall we are the most efficient on the industry.
We still close and sell more homes per employee than anyone else.
And I'm astounded when I looked at the number for the quarter when we year-over-year increased our employee count by 29% but yet our sales closings and backlog values increased 52% 47% and 76% respectively.
We leveraged our overhead extraordinarily well.
Our next question is coming from Joel Locker from FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to I guess get behind -- you mentioned brokers before and wanted to see what the participation rate from outside brokers were in the second quarter closing.
What that was a year ago maybe? We typically run somewhere between about 60% and 70% participation from brokers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And has that changed at all or...
Not significantly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Not significantly.
And just on community count did you guys mention what it was up sequentially into up year-over-year? Year-over-year was -- on active selling communities was up 15%.
I don't believe we gave the sequential number.
That was ...
5%.
Yes up 5% sequentially.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 5%.
And just a follow-up on that.
How much -- how many communities do you plan to open in the last 2 quarters of 2013? And what are slated to open in 2014 if you have some kind of ballpark figure.
We're planning on opening every community that meets our current underwriting guidelines which is a combination of gross margin and return on capital.
And I don't mean to not answer your question but we are aggressively pursuing land and lot positions and most -- yes every one of our markets.
And to the extent that our conservative underwriting guidelines are met we're on the deal.
We do expect our selling communities to continue to be up 10% to 15% year-over-year for the remainder of this fiscal year.
Past that it's hard to have perfect visibility on timing of openings and closings.
But just to clarify we are approaching this upcycle in a totally different manner than we have in my 30 years with this company.
And that is we are adhering very closely to our return of initial investment on any land deal that we'd get our capital back our original investment back within 24 months.
So some slight exceptions but our goal is to maintain that hard and fast rule.
And we're not having a hard time finding deals to meet those criteria today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then the Southwest that was down 9% year-over-year on orders.
Was that a function of just community count declining? Yes the Southwest I think we've mentioned the last quarter's call with the  vast improvement in the Phoenix market last year our lot supply's a little lower than we would like.
So we're working to build that back up.
So our sales are reflecting that.
But we're also seeing very strong pricing in that region as we rebuild our inventory.
And that's really Chris in terms of markets that's Arizona and New Mexico for us.
Our next question is coming from Jack Micenko from SI G.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Stacey going back to the mortgage question.
I know you talked about timing and those closings rolling at the revenue recognition and the mortgage.
Can you talk about sequential trends and the gain on sales margins in mortgage and where you think those margins maybe go in the next quarters or so? We've been in a very robust gain on sale environment.
The demand side for the mortgage is where originating has increased.
A large portion of our loans have been sold to one buyer for a long period of time.
We're now seeing more buyers come in to the market and that is helping with the pricing.
We don't know exactly where the margins will go.
But it would -- might be a little aggressive to assume that they continue to stay exactly where they are because this is above any historical margins we've ever ran in terms of gain on sale.
LLLP Research Division</strong> But you didn't see a big decline quarter-to-quarter? No.
Okay.
Right now if you were investing in mortgages I can't imagine a better time with the FICO scores the underwriting guidelines and with low interest rates where they are today very few prepayment -- early prepayment.
So if you're an investor in mortgages it's a great time to be in the business.
LLLP Research Division</strong> But not enough banks are doing it.
Don you had talked about -- continued to say and reiterate that you're not changing standards on land purchase side.
We've heard some competitors talk about maybe moving in some inflation into their underwriter underwriting.
I guess the mix of almost half your win -- activity in this quarter was finished.
Is that a sustainable percentage? And I mean going back to the '03 '04 timeframe I mean is that a consistent mix finished versus raw into sort of more building demand scenarios? I think that that is a more normalized balance for us about half developed half -- we internally develop half.
We might buy finish from someone else.
And over the past few years it had swung more to us buying finished lots as they were available through the stress and other situations.
As we're getting back to a more normalized times where we're developing more of our own lots.
But it's not swinging the pendulum past what we believe to be a historical balance.
I think that's reflective of our geographic mix.
We have a very strong presence in Texas where there are third party developers where there are finished lot opportunities really tied up throughout the south.
there's a lot more opportunities there.
So we typically have seen substantial amount of finished lot purchases in those markets.
I'll tell you and with our volume in each one of our markets we're assisting third party developers in terms of them taking their loans from banks because simply of the fact that one we have a strong balance sheet.
And secondly we are strong performer.
We start the number of specs in each one of our communities.
So there are a lot of third party developers who are seeking loans that look at Horton as a great catalyst to them securing their loan from a bank.
Our next question is coming from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations on a good quarter.
I wanted to...
Congratulations on a good call timing wise.
I wanted to ask you a question about M&amp;A.
In the 1990s cycle you all were really among the most successful M&amp;A story in the industry.
And recently we've seen a little bit of activity from some of your peers on the M&amp;A side getting into some markets here or there.
And I guess I was just curious whether or not you felt that it was reasonable to think that D.R.
Horton would be able to have M&amp;A be a meaningful part of your growth opportunities over the next say 2 to 3 years? Well clearly and I'll speak for him because he's sitting to my left but Mike Murray is moved up to 38.
He was our Controller and he was promoted to Senior Vice President.
And he's in charge of our acquisitions for us.
And clearly if you recall what was it? 4 months ago 5 months ago we've closed on Breland which was a builder in Mobile and Gulf Port Mississippi area as well as Huntsville Alabama.
So he's working deals.
We're working deals.
And it's our goal to be a participant in the M&amp;A game just as we were in the past upcycle.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
Maybe just as a followup to that can you give us a sense for what may be different about the way you're pursuing those deals either in terms of the kinds of constraints you'll put from your end or in terms of what embedded expectations are on the part of the folks on the other side of the table relative to what you saw in the last cycle? You've indicated a lot of changes in the operations of your business.
You just said you're doing things very differently in many ways in this upcycle operationally.
Are there other differences on the M&amp;A side as you look at things that are also relevant? Before Mike gets into the facts or all the other relationships let me just say that our acquisition gain one of the things that's our preeminent plan has always been that we are looking for people who will fit within our company and make sure that they blend well with us.
And if you look at the people that we inherited from the Breland acquisition there wasn't much "Hortonization" that was necessary they fit within our organization very well and are performing very well.
So that's our first plan.
Our second plan is is to make sure that they fill a hole where we currently need some help.
And so I'll let Mike go in with the rest of it.
And looking at our footprint perhaps today versus where it was last when we went to the last round of M&amp;A that concluded in really in '02.
Our footprint is much more robust today and so  there's less geographies that we'd be looking to fill in.
Doesn't mean there's not places that we're existing today that might be attractive opportunity for us.
Situation sometimes is seller motivated.
They may have survived the last cycle very well but they're looking for a way to take some of their capital out of play and a different lifestyle.
Perhaps from where they are today.
But as Don said it's the people part that's got to be first thing.
And we are going to be focused on what we believe to be top to our people and really good long-term fits for us.
I mean we can grow a lot in laying positions in our markets.
But to add some key talent in key teams and selectively in new markets there's opportunities.
Our next question is coming from Alex Barron from Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I as you know have been following you guys for a long time and I am kind of surprised by your conservatism in your guidance because it seems to me that everything's going on all cylinders.
And so I'm just trying to understand if that's all that is behind your SG&amp;A your backlog conversion and your gross margin guidance? Are you saying that gross margin guidance is light and our SG&amp;A decreases are light? LLC</strong> Well seems to me that the -- I mean based on what you have on backlog going for you and I know that you're not going to grow the SG&amp;A I mean you've always watched it it would seem to me  you're going to get below way below 11% in the back half.
But anyway...
Let me clearly say it.
We didn't say how far below.
We talk clearly Alex about the fact that we still see gross margin expansion opportunities in the quarters ahead especially in the next 3 quarters.
And as obviously we get more of our closings in the second half of the year than the first half of the year we see some declines in our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenue moving forward.
And that clearly I think our SG&amp;A percentage in the second half of the year will clearly be under 11% and may approach 10% for the third and fourth quarter.
But on an average for the year based upon where we are today it's not going to be -- it's probably going to be closer to 11%n than it's going to be closer to 10%.
But it could be somewhere in between there clearly.
Yes.
And on backlog conversion the 70% compared to what we had historically done in our third quarter it's probably about 10% higher.
We have seen our spec percentage come down a little bit as our percentage of inventory.
So that's one of the things we're weighing.
But quite honestly we haven't been the perfect predictors of what our backlog conversion will be.
We've known that it would start reverting back to historical norms but the predicting how quickly and how much has been a little difficult.
But we have seen a slower backlog conversion this year than last year.
We expect that to continue to revert that's within the guidance.
Could we do better than 70%? Sure.
But historically would say that we could do a little worse than that too.
And please remember what I said in my prepared remarks the second half of the year will be substantially better than the first half of the year for us absolutely.
LLC</strong> Right.
So I guess that kind of wants -- that makes me to ask why.
I know you gave historical averages the 20% gross margin and the 10% SG&amp;A.
But why would SG&amp;A stay at 10%? Why couldn't it go below that in the future years since you guys are obviously getting a lot of scale advantages and as you pointed out you don't need to hire that many incremental people to manage the growth in the units? With all due respect Alex we're not focused on where our SG&amp;A is going to be so much in the year in '14 and '15 is where we are and the next 2 quarters.
So we're just focusing right now on delivering what we can very effectively deliver in the third and fourth quarters.
And obviously you know this organization you know Don Horton very well.
If we get to 10% Horton will want 9%.
And we'll be working on trying to get to 9%.
But let's get to 10% first before we have to make -- before you try to get us committed to where we're going to be in '14 and '15 sorry.
LLC</strong> And if I could just ask on your land strategy.
I go out and visit  lot of communities around the country and it seems to me like you guys are the only ones kind of moving out to -- a lot of the first-time -- where the first-time buyers are.
Your peers seem to be hesitating are you finding that the opportunities and returns and the cost of land are more attractive than fighting for the A locations? Well actually as we come through as I said earlier in the conference call Bill Stacey and I see every deal that comes through the company.
And one of us approves it and I hear and see every deal.
I would say to you that we are clearly still seeing a number of great opportunities in A locations.
And most of the deals we're approving right now are A locations based upon our gross margin hurdles as well as our return of initial capital.
So I don't believe we're seeing -- I know one thing.
We're not doing any C deals.
So clearly we're augmenting our A deals which the majority of our deals are As with some B deals but we've got a high level of A deals coming to the corporation right now.
There's strong buyer demand in a sub market at margins that meet our hurdles that's an A deal for us.
Our next question is coming from Megan McGrath from MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a little bit about pricing and affordability.
We've -- you got pricing going up a couple percentage points but at least according to data this morning we've got real incomes down about 5%.
So obviously all of that mortgage rates' here how much wiggle room do you think that you still have on the pricing especially with your first-time buyer? What are you hearing from your sales folks in terms of how much they can push it in terms of affordability here? Well as we look across the country frankly we're selling more and more larger plans as our sales price indicates and our square footage indicates.
And frankly in a number of our markets we're in the leading the smallest 2 plans simply because of the fact that we have much better margins than the third largest small plan and going up the scale so -- I don't see any issues with that currently and I know that that's an issue because obviously with the increased taxes that everyone's having to pay this year there is less disposable income.
But we still have people who largely come in into our models especially in the first-time homebuyer market.
With the affordability rates where they are today even though they may not be as great as they once were but they're still very good.
they're still trying to buy all house they possibly can.
That's something we always have to watch always watch the affordability.
But today it's still very good.
And then especially with where mortgage standards are today for those buyers that are able to qualify for a mortgage they have very very good credit quality.
So they're typically able -- probably to afford a little bit more house than buyers several years ago when credit standards were a little different.
When we're dropping our 1 or 2 smallest plans on a number of our communities there's good demand out there.
So to the extent that we're dropping those to the extent we have come back and add those because of less disposable income or qualifying problems we can easily do that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then just to follow up on your comment around financing.
We actually heard in a couple of instances that now that prices are going up that appraisers are falling behind a little bit and having a hard time catching up.
Has that been any pushback for you in the quarter in terms of appraisers catching up with your price increases? Actually we work very closely to the extent that we can with our appraisers.
And we try to help them by having a focal person in each division deliver the appraisal packet.
And to the extent that they can use any of our help we're trying to help them.
But clearly I think the appraisers are doing a good job in most of our markets.
There are a handful of markets where we go like that the appraisers are not giving the value that we should be getting for our homes but we're working through that.
Our final question today is coming from Buck Horne from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quick one here.
Can you quantify any external commissions that were on the gross margin line? And I guess also are there any markets where you're actively trying to slow absorption given the laying constraints out there? And how do you balance the equation between price and pace right now? I'll take the second half of that.
We're not trying to slow our sales in any particular market by lack of lot supply.
If we are doing anything and our sales are slowing in a particular area it's because we're very proactive on our price increases.
And we're trying to take price increases wherever we can and as actively as we can but not any restriction on our sales relative to land and lot supply.
And commissions over the long term are typically around 3% of revenue for us and this quarter was in line with that long term range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
great.
One just last one in the call here.
But -- can you talk a little bit about the margin differential between internally developed communities versus communities you buy from third parties? What's the margin differential between those typically? And on the finished lots you do buy today what's the implied margin relative to your current 20%? It's really a risk assessment.
And basically if we are buying lots all cash from a third-party developer more if we have bought the land and are developing the lots we have a higher gross margin underwriting hurdle than our standard on a rolling option basis.
That could be anywhere from 200 to 300 to 400 basis points differential.
Because we believe that as we cap the cash something now or in terms of finished lots or if we develop the subdivision ourselves we should be paying ourselves a risk-adjusted return.
And if we're not then we're making a mistake.
So that's where we focus.
And sometimes it's 500 basis points but I'd say it's typically somewhere between 300 and 400 basis points if we have to cash something out.
We have reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to management for any further or closing comments.
Thank you.
And thank our employees for a wonderful quarter.
We've come through a tough 5 years in this -- in the company.
We've rebuilt the company from the ground up.
Our employees have done a phenomenal job out there helping us get to where we are.
Without a doubt we're clearly the leader in the industry and where we are today and where we are positioned over the course of the next 2 years we should clearly be the leader in the industry both on units revenues profit gross margins SG&amp;A.
We absolutely had a phenomenal quarter but there's more great things to come with this company.
And I appreciate it and D.R.
and I thank each and every one of our employees.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton Americas Builder the largest builder in the United States Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It's now my pleasure to introduce your host President and CEO Don Tomnitz.
Thank you Mr.
Tomnitz.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Senior Vice President.
Before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there's no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? Our homebuilding and financial services operations turned in another great quarter highlighted by $205 million of pretax income and a 12.1% pretax operating margin.
Contributing to our bottom line results were our home sales gross margins of 21.4% a 340 basis point improvement from the prior year quarter.
And our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues of 10.2% a 200 basis point improvement.
The value of our net sales orders increased 30% from the year-ago quarter due to a 12% increase in homes sold and a 15% increase in our average selling price to $268 000.
The cancellation rate for the third quarter was 24%.
The value of our backlog increased 56% from a year ago to $2.6 billion with an average sales price per home of $260 700 and homes in backlog increased 36% to 9 911 homes.
The increase in our average sales price reflects our continued ability to raise prices as well as a continued shift in our current buyer mix to more move-up buyers.
D.R.
Horton is well-known for offering homes for first-time and first-time move up buyers with 63% of our homes closing at an average sales price of $250 000 or less this quarter.
About 2 years ago we began to experience increased demand for larger homes with more upgrades.
In response we began adding new communities and expanding our product offerings for move-up buyers.
We're also offering homes in some markets targeted to second time move-up and luxury buyers.
3.4% of our homes closed this quarter at a sales price greater than $500 000 up from 2.5% a year ago.
The dollars associated with these closings increased to 9.4% of home sales revenues from 7% a year ago.
Bill? Our net sales orders in the quarter reflect our increased mix of move-up buyers and our pricing power across most of our markets as the value net sales increased 30% on a 12% increase in net homes sold.
The $268 000 average sales price was our highest since the second fiscal quarter of 2006.
We experienced some moderation in our net sales pace in the back half of the quarter after mortgage rates began to increase sharply.
While each individual home buyer responds differently to changes in mortgage rates we typically see some short-term moderation in buyer activity during periods of mortgage rate volatility as potential buyers adjust to the changing rate environment.
We expect that most homebuyers who slow their purchase decision while rates are volatile will ultimately still buy a house since affordability remains strong and interest rates remain at historically low levels.
Over the long term however we believe the demand for new homes is tied more closely to economic indicators in our individual operating markets such as job growth household incomes household formations and consumer confidence.
Additionally we have been proactively adjusting our rate of sales while raising prices in many individual communities to ensure that our sales pace and backlog align with our construction cycles which have been lengthened slightly.
This activity ensures that our construction costs are certain before we establish the sale price of the home which then enhances our gross margins and profitability.
Through the first 3 weeks of July we are experiencing normal summer seasonality in our sales pace.
Stacey? In the third quarter our consolidated pretax income increased 184% to $205.1 million from $72.2 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our pretax income as a percentage of consolidated revenues was 12.1% an increase of 580 basis points from 6.3% in the year-ago quarter.
Homebuilding pretax income more than tripled to $185.4 million from $58.3 million and financial services pretax income increased to $19.7 million from $13.9 million.
Net income for the third quarter was $146 million or $0.42 per diluted share compared to $787.8 million or $2.22 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
The prior year quarter included a noncash tax benefit of $716.7 million from a reduction of the valuation allowance for our deferred tax asset.
Mike? Our third quarter home sales revenues increased 46% to $1.6 billion on 6 464 homes closed up from $1.1 billion on 4 957 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $252 300 up 12% compared to the prior year driven by pricing power and a larger average home size.
Our backlog conversion rate for the quarter was 68% compared to 80% in the prior year quarter.
For the fourth quarter we expect our conversion rate to be around 70% which would be consistent with historical seasonal trends and also reflects our mix shift to larger homes with longer construction cycles.
Stacey? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the third quarter was 21.4% up 340 basis points from the year-ago period.
180 basis points of the margin increase was due to improving market conditions resulting in reduced incentives and higher average selling prices in excess of cost increases.
110 basis points was due to lower relative cost for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenue with approximately 80 basis points of the 110 due to an unusually large amount of cash reimbursement of previously incurred litigation cost.
The remaining 50 basis points of the margin increase was due to lower amortized interest and property taxes.
For the fourth quarter we expect a home sales gross margin of around 21% which would represent further margin improvement from our 20.6% gross margin in the third quarter excluding the 80 basis point benefit from the unusual cash reimbursement.
Mike? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $167.5 million compared to $136.4 million in the prior year quarter.
As a percentage of home building revenues SG&amp;A improved 200 basis points to 10.2% from 12.2%.
We are leveraging our fixed cost structure while at the same time building our sales and production capabilities where necessary.
Our SG&amp;A also improved 100 basis points sequentially of which 40 basis points related to a reduction in the component of our executive compensation expense that is tied to our stock price.
We expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues to be around 10% in the fourth quarter.
We recorded no direct interest expense this quarter since our active inventory exceeded our debt level.
In the year-ago quarter we expensed $6.2 million of homebuilding interest.
The improvements in our gross profit and SG&amp;A percentages and a decrease in our direct interest expense expanded our homebuilding pretax margin to 11.3% in the current quarter an increase of 610 basis points from 5.2% in the year-ago quarter.
Bill? Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $19.7 million compared to $13.9 million in the year-ago quarter.
86% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations.
Our mortgage company handled the financing for 55% of our homebuyers this quarter with virtually all loans meeting eligibility requirements for sale to Fannie Mae Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 47% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter down from 55% in the year-ago quarter.
Our mortgage company's new borrowers during the quarter had an average FICO score of 723 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 90%.
First-time homebuyers represented 44% of the closings handled by our mortgage company this quarter compared to 56% in the year-ago quarter.
Mike? Since March our construction in progress and in finished homes inventory increased by approximately $259 million.
We had 17 500 homes in inventory at the end of June up 1 700 homes from last quarter and up 5 300 homes from a year ago.
As of June 30 1 300 of our homes were models 8 300 were speculative homes and 2 500 of the specs were completed.
This quarter our average community count increased 19% from a year ago.
And we expect our average community count for the fourth quarter to be 15% to 20% higher than last year.
Don? In our third fiscal quarter our investments in lots land and development cost totaled $710 million.
As we continue to find new communities and build our lot supply.
Of the $710 million $280 million was to purchase land $263 million was to purchase finished lots and $167 million was for land development cost.
At June 30 2013 we control approximately 190 000 lots of which 124 000 are owned and 66 000 are option.
31 000 of our owned lots and 32 000 of our option lots are finished.
The 63 000 total finished lots we control at quarter and are up 31% from a year ago.
Stacey? Our total available homebuilding liquidity at June 30 was $1.2 billion which included unrestricted cash of $608 million and available capacity on our revolving credit facility of $549 million.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at June 30 was $2.9 billion and we had no cash borrowings on our revolver.
At June 30 our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash was 36.6% and our gross homebuilding leverage was 42.3%.
Don? In closing this quarter was D.R.
Horton's most profitable third quarter since 2006 with $205 million of pretax income.
All of our operating metrics improved on a year-over-year basis this quarter.
The value of our sales closings and backlog increased by 30% 46% and 56% respectively.
Our pretax income increased 184%.
Our pretax income margin increased 580 basis points to 12.1%.
Our gross margin on home sales revenues increased 340 basis points.
Our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues improved 200 basis points.
And we are continuing to experience pricing power in many of our markets as evidenced by a 15% increase in average sales price.
D.R.
and I would like to personally thank all of our D.R.
Horton team.
You are executing our business plan superbly.
We continue to be in a preeminent position in the industry as a company.
So keep taking good care of our customers and finish strong in fiscal 2013.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now host any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
I wondered if you could kind of clarify some of your comments regarding the increase in mortgage rates and then what you saw with demand kind of slowing in the back half of the quarter? Ultimately what were the kind of inter-quarter trends and how that kind of relates to what you've seen in July so far? As we stated we did see just some moderation in our sales pace in the back half of the quarter.
Each of the months of our quarter were up year-over-year.
But we did see the pace decline a bit in the latter half of the quarter really beginning and during the month of May.
In terms of the demand trends that's really really all we have to say about that.
Clearly we know that mortgage rates were rising during that time.
As we stated there is some -- we typically see some short-term impact from rates on the timing of purchase decision by some buyers and that's something that we're -- each of our communities are working with our buyers on a case-by-case basis.
I think also impacting it was the fact that rates moved up rather dramatically in a very short period of time they've come down some since then.
And as rates moderate I believe that the buyers will come back in the market.
They're just trying to assess their situation.
Frankly a lot of the buyers were counting on trying to pick the low in the pricing and the low in the interest rates and they're a little bit shocked or disturbed by the fact that rates have moved up from where they were.
But clearly demand over the long term is driven more by the economic indicators and clearly those trends still tend to be positive in most of our markets.
Research Division</strong> And then on the luxury builder that you started with the closings being -- and I think it was a very small number 3.5% of closings greater than $500 000 this quarter.
Where do you see this in the future? How's the kind of backlog trending in that group there? Actually we're just at the beginning of our Emerald product and we are rolling that across the country.
We believe that we have an excellent opportunity to increase that to a significant portion of our business over the next 3 to 5 years and believe we're in a very competitive environment both cost-wise and price-wise to compete with the small and medium-sized undercapitalized custom builders who really aren't in the market.
So we feel very optimistic about that.
It's a part of the market that we identified a couple of years ago that we thought would be coming on strong and it is and we're well-positioned to continue to capitalize on it.
Our next question is coming from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Don this question falls under the category of trying to interpret your body language over the phone.
You don't sound as quite as enthusiastic as you did last quarter.
I didn't hear a lot of commentary as to your outlook.
So can you update us on what your thoughts are in light of the moderate slowdown that you've seen? Well moderate slowdown.
If I don't sound optimistic enough for you I guess I didn't drink my Red Bull this morning.
But the bottom line is I think that we're on a wonderful position as a company.
Our balance sheet has never been stronger.
Our land and lot position across the country has never been stronger.
Our sales improving 12% in units we were proud of largely because of the fact that we have done a fantastic job increasing prices and taking advantage of pricing opportunities in a number of our markets.
We didn't have that pricing power back a year ago.
We do today.
And we are focused on profitability in this company.
We clearly have been the largest builder for 11 years.
We want to continue to be the largest builder.
But our bottom line goal is the bottom line.
And we are focused on that very well and produce very well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is if that back half of the quarter moderation becomes a more permanent moderation what would be the first or the sequential steps you take or decisions you make or changes you'd make in managing your business? We manage our business community-by-community and we adjust our business every single day.
You adjust pricing you adjust your spec levels of your homes and inventory you adjust the next take of lots that you may be looking at.
So it's just ordinary course of business based on sales pace.
You adjust your inventory levels and your sales efforts.
But from the standpoint of moderation in sales pace when we're still up 12% in units and 30% in dollars we still feel like we're still generating a very good strong growth through our sales line with our community count being up double-digit with expectations for it to remain there.
We feel like we're still very good and positioned to continue to grow the top line as well.
And frankly Adam maybe you are reading a little bit of my body language because I am disappointed that over the course of the 30- or 60-day period post Chairman Bernanke's speech that rates went up so violently so quickly because the homebuilding industry had made a lot of progress in the last 12 to 24 months and it seems like one speech had a major impact on the industry and our sales which was really ridiculous reaction by the marketplace.
But secondly what we've always focused on in the [indiscernible] CFO who preceded Bill Wheat what we're focusing on is that we've never made a coupon payment or we've never put a dollar or we never put a home in the bank.
We always have to put dollars in the bank and that's we're focusing on is putting dollars in the bank and rebuilding our equity.
Our next question is coming from Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could just talk a little bit more in terms of the margin.
You've talked a lot about the pricing power but in terms of the impact from higher prices and lower incentives it seems somewhat modest in terms of that.
Can you speak a little bit more to that is materials [indiscernible] some of the impact how do you think about that overall in terms of margins? Margins were up 340 basis points so year-over-year it's very strong of which a little over half 180 basis points came strictly from improving market conditions which is a combination of our raising sales prices more than our cost increased.
So I think we're still seeing very good leverage within our margins and we do have -- we're optimistic that we can continue with more positive momentum on our margins.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess wondering in terms of the comments there in terms of trends as the quarter went on did you see -- you talked about some of the moderation.
Was that from some of the new traffic? Do you have any issue in terms of can't [ph] that came in late in the quarter based on the mortgages? Or how do you classify that in terms of mortgage environment? I think our traffic count is slower post the interest rate changes.
And frankly we've got good demand in all of our communities.
It's just a slower demand and it's also coupled with the fact that clearly this is a slow time of the year for the homebuilders in terms of being in -- starting in June.
Typically sales start the slow down until Super Bowl Sunday.
So I think it's all very normal other than the overreaction on the interest rates.
And what we've typically seen is it's a short-term phenomenon.
When rates are moving significantly during that timeframe we see that moderation.
But then when things stabilize it typically recovers.
We don't see a long-term impact.
I can assure you that people who are sitting on the sidelines because interest rates are 5% versus 4.5%.
We know one thing rates are going to continue to increase hopefully more moderately than what they did over the last 30- to 60-day period.
But today with the pricing on our products in our company in the industry as well as interest rates it's still a wonderful time to buy a home.
One of the highest affordability indexes yet.
Our next question is coming from Jade Rahmani with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Have you seen any changes of note in the land markets since rates first started to increase whether it be volume of deals coming to market or competition from land buyers or any players starting to adopt more conservative underwriting assumptions? Not really.
Land prices don't really react that quickly to interest rates and typically they don't react very much to interest rates at all.
But land prices have worked their way up and that's one of the reasons that we have focused on our margins versus our volume because especially in the West we have irreplaceable land positions out there at irreplaceable cost.
And as a result what we've been doing I know people are questioning what's happening in our West.
Well our West basically had increased our average sales price out there by 29.5% year-over-year.
And we've had -- we earned 4x as much money out there in terms of pretax income over the same period year-over-year.
So bottom line is we're focusing on increasing our margins.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just focusing on the Southwest and West segments did those segments also have community count -- positive community count growth year-over-year? Yes they did.
Community count in west was up 8%.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what about the Southwest? Yes slightly up low single digits up.
Our next question is coming from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It looks like you guys have done a lot to drive better gross margin performance.
Do you think there's additional upside given the strong ASP performance in the back part of the year? I'll tell you one factor that's really a strong indicator of our ability to do that.
To answer your question directly yes.
I read recently that new home inventory is less than 4 months supply.
So anytime you have less than 6 months supply I'd say that inventory is constrained.
So in most of our markets out there coupled with the land and lot positions that we have and the construction cycles lengthening slightly there is going to be good demand for housing going on a go-forward basis.
And that's coupled with the fact that there's such a low inventory.
But we got it.
Okay? LLC Research Division</strong> And just one final question.
On the SG&amp;A line you've -- obviously you've done a really good job of leveraging those costs.
Is there other opportunities to make that work more in your favor given your expectations for better revenue? Absolutely.
We expect to continue to leverage that further.
Our long-term goal is to have our SG&amp;A at 10% consistently for the entire fiscal year.
We're not quite there yet so we definitely feel that there's opportunity there.
And any time that we're able to raise our average selling prices that helps significantly with leveraging our SG&amp;A dollars.
And just in terms of expectations for next quarter our normal seasonal deliveries are typically higher in Q4 than in Q3 which would typically help us improve our SG&amp;A from quarter-to-quarter.
And then we'd expect that to trend back up in Q1 and Q2 and then re-lever back down in Q3 and Q4 next year.
Our next question is coming from Will Randow from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> In terms of -- one thing I'm trying to understand is when I'm thinking about home price to income there are certain regions where they're more expensive than others particularly when I think about California versus Texas.
Can you kind of talk about what's happening in terms of activity in the last month of the second quarter there? As well as is there a greater impact in the higher price markets where affordability suffer? For first-time homebuyers rather sorry.
Certainly as we increased our prices especially in California there is an issue associated with people being able to qualify for those homes.
But again there is -- in the West in particular there is a shortage of finished homes new homes in that market.
And with -- even though we are losing buyers out of the pool who can afford our homes nevertheless the supply is constrained.
So we're going to continue to press our pricing in that market as much as we can and let the chips fall where they're going to fall in terms of who can afford and who can't.
There's still pricing power in California.
There's still issues associated with getting entitlements in California.
So again we look at our land and lot inventory in California and we feel like that we're in a preeminent position and we're going to capitalize on that preeminent position and drop the money into the bottom line.
In Texas generally speaking homes continue to be affordable here.
One of the most affordable places to live in country.
And house -- there's no real barriers to entry.
There's no really constraints to being able to build our units here like there are in a lot of states.
So Texas will continue to be one of our leading states in our company just simply because of the fact that there's good demand here and there are very few barriers to entry here and our costs are better here than most markets.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up you've been sitting on those assets in Hawaii in Oahu if I remember correctly for a while.
It's about 10% of lot count.
How is that progressing? It's progressing very well.
We're getting closer.
But there are a lot of political issues that always are associated with a piece of land this size.
And so therefore we don't comment on anything other than the fact that we're making nice progress over there and we're getting cooperation.
And I believe the project is in the next 12 to 18 months going to make a lot of progress.
Our next question is coming from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question on the -- sorry to go back to the subject of the day.
But I think the clarity is helpful and I appreciate all your comments so far.
With the community count growth continuing to be double digits number one I just want to understand if what was the community count average community count growth during the quarter? And it would seem to imply a plus or minus flattish growth on-sales pace and I was wondering if the sales pace kind of went negative on a year-over-year basis as you went through the quarter and if that's still the case for July.
We looked at -- community counts went up 19% for the quarter as we talked about and it would imply a bit of a drop in sales per community on pace because sales were up 12%.
But opening new communities you tend to hit a ramp-up period early on in the community life as you grow that community up.
So that's not initially unexpected for us to have a slight lag between opening a community and then getting the full velocity of sales you expect in that community.
And what's still most important to us is our dollar value of sales which was up 30% relative to our community counts up 19%.
So we are generating still more dollars through our sales line per community than we were a year ago.
And Bill had mentioned that our sales in each of the months in the June quarter were positive compared to the prior year...
Both units and dollars.
Right.
We're not done this July yet but July is showing what we would expect in terms of normal seasonality compared to what we saw in June.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that and sorry that I missed the 19% number.
On the pricing trends though also if you could give us some sense I think part of the concern here is certainly that not only would pace slow to some degree and of course it's hard to parse out seasonality versus the rate impact although clearly there's some impact.
But that also the rate of price increases would slow.
Have you seen that in any of your markets? And Bill you had mentioned one of the things you typically would do also is maybe adjust incentives.
Have you begun to see any adjustments in that area? And how would that necessarily affect gross margins down the line? Let me be very clear Michael.
We have seen no lack of ability to increase our prices.
There's still as I said there's what 3.9 months supply of new homes available in the marketplace and that would indicate to you that there's a shortage of new homes out there.
The construction cycles are lengthening.
I think our pricing power continues to increase certainly over the next 12 to 18 months.
No changes in incentives.
If anything our incentives are still being reduced.
And as I we've mentioned there are a number of communities particularly in the West where we have been proactively slowing our sales in order to align it with our construction cycles.
And so in those cases we're raising prices.
I don't think there's any question that interest rates adversely affected our sales increase which was 12% on a unit basis and 30% on a dollar basis.
But nevertheless we're in a great position right now to continue to raise prices and there's a shortage of homes out there.
I just don't see any negative associated with that our industry or certainly our company for the next 12 to 18 months.
Our next question is coming from Stephen Kim with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know there's been a lot of conversation here about the rates.
And I think that you've been very clear about the fact that you are seeing some impact on the volume but you still believe that your pricing power is very much intact due to affordability levels et cetera.
Yet it's also pretty clear that in the minds of most investors that the impact of rates usually or is expected to be felt more on price actually than volume because volumes industry-wide are so depressed.
And so your comments first of all are interesting in that regard.
And then secondly I think that pretty much you're the first builder so far to talk openly about the fact that rates are having an impact on demand.
So I wanted to touch a little bit if I could do you have in any way an estimate of what amount of volume impact the rates you think had? And if you said that already I apologize that I missed it.
And I guess what I'm thinking about here is in markets can you talk about traffic or something like that like traffic came down or something like that to help us frame the conversation? I think you can take a look -- what I look at is the cancellation rate.
And I think when rates went up I think we had cans associated with interest rates going up.
Our can rate last quarter was 19% this quarter was 24%.
Year-over-year it was 23% versus 24%.
So if you look at just the time period when interest rates went up Steve which was this quarter and compare it to the previous quarter I would say the way I would measure it is the difference between 19% and 24% in terms of our can rate.
Research Division</strong> Interesting.
Okay yes.
Because I usually think of cancellation rates as a seasonal event or a seasonally influenced metric because it's a -- but in any case it is interesting you mentioned you think those cans relate to the previous quarter and there's are seasonal aspect to your sales.
So I usually think of cans year-on-year.
So I guess to help us understand then the can rate did your cancellation in actual units accelerate through the quarter? I'm assuming it did.
And if you were to sort of maintain that level that you -- of cancellations you've seen as you go forward what would that imply in terms of the drag on order growth into the let's say the -- your fourth quarter which is a September quarter? In terms of the rate 5% differential from quarter-to-quarter we did see the rates higher in the back half of the quarter from that standpoint.
So yes I think Don's statements are definitely right on target in terms of the -- a way to measure the impact.
In terms of projecting that one that one's a little harder to answer.
But again we don't think this takes long to absorb in the market.
People who start shopping today are going to start shopping with a 4.5% interest rate in mind and it won't be a difference in their expectations from when they first began looking at a home.
So this is -- this will be a short-term moderation.
The other thing we have not talked about here is the home doesn't necessarily stay the same.
What we typically see is buyers they take a step back they evaluate their choices and they may choose to buy a different home they may choose to buy a 2 200 square foot home rather than 24 square foot home.
They may make adjustments to the choice and that just takes time which is why we say it typically as a short-term impact.
I think everybody's just going to have to get accustomed to the fact that we're in a slightly rising interest rate environment and as like Don Horton said who was his first salesman this first cleanup guy and this first homebuilder when he got started in the business.
When he was sitting in this sales office interest rates tick up 0.8% you're not going to see anybody for a while because people are frankly a little freaked about "well I missed the low." And "Why didn't I buy a home when rates were 0.8% lower." But those people come back and they're ultimately most of them going to buy.
So as we work through all this this is a normal part of our business.
People are overreacting to a little run-up in interest rates here.
And say well geez the homebuilding industry is going to a crater just because interest rates went up.
You're missing the point.
We have the highest affordability index perhaps ever in the industry.
We've got pricing power and interest rates are not going to deter people from buying homes to any large extent.
It may delay those purchases but it's not going to be a permanent effect.
Our next question is coming from Ken Zener with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Don I'm glad to see your enthusiasm is increasing here for defending.
And I think you laid out a case -- I think I'm not sure if that's what you're missing.
And I think if we look at the West where you're -- myself being based out of San Francisco I see the price I see the limited supply.
But you're balancing the margins against the ability of people to buy.
And obviously rising interest rates is what we're going to have historically good for home prices which is a demand generator.
But if all the builders including yourself and this is what's really surprising are managing pace and margin why not -- first if gross margins are at 21% why not shoot for 20% and go for more volume? And well -- okay go ahead.
Clearly we will.
We feel like we've got a wonderful window here where we can continue to drop dollars into the bank as opposed to units into the bank and we're going to maximize our opportunity.
I like to say I will never forget in my 30 years in the industry '07 '08 and '09 those are pathetic years.
And the buyer had the advantage on us during those time periods simply because there was excess inventory.
Now there's not as much inventory out there.
So as a result now we have a slight advantage simply because of the limited inventory that's out there.
We're still offering our buyers a wonderful metric in terms of affordability and a wonderful house at a wonderful price the prices -- it's time for prices to go up simply because land prices are going up cost of building a house are going up.
So if you're in a home -- if you look out there waiting to buy a home for 6 months from now because you think rates are going to be better or costs are going to be better you're missing the boat.
Research Division</strong> True I understand that perspective.
But it seems to me if you look at the '04 '05 period you have decelerating orders people care a lot about that A.
B you're focusing at the industry and I thought correctly amidst sustained absorption but I mean we're seeing decelerating absorption and they -- you guys can build these homes.
You have the land the industry that is.
But it seems to me if the industry is -- the public builders are focused on price and pace it points to a lower cyclical component.
I mean I know the demand's out there but you're letting some of the demand go to focus on the margin and price.
Maybe it means that we're mid-cycle already.
It's hard to believe at 1 million.
Or there's as much slower recovery rate which means it takes longer to monetize the volume.
Can you just kind of talk about that? Because it seems like at a lower volume it might be more profitable but people still need that volume the companies.
Well I look at our volume and I think our volume based upon year-over-year and sequentially our volume is improving very nicely.
There's nothing wrong with a double-digit increase in sales units and there's nothing with our 30-plus percent increase in sales dollars.
So I'm not freaking out because they're not 40% or 50%.
I mean 12% and 30% are fine numbers.
Now clearly we've been in this business long enough to know that when the volume begins to decline too much then we're going to adjust our incentives and move forward.
But right now I have no desire to do that because like I say we're in the heart of the market right now.
We've got lack of supply.
We've got wonderful pricing power that we haven't had for 5 or 6 years.
And it would be a bad decision for us and for our shareholders to go out there and look for excessive volume today just so we can say well we had a 25% increase in units versus a 12% because we're increasing our profit so much more dramatically.
And Ken I'm going to answer it from a slightly different direction.
We're taking different approaches in different communities.
We're taking different approaches in different markets.
If you look at our regional breakdown 3 of our regions had unit increases of 25% plus.
And those are markets where we've been successful in tying up a lot of land.
We can replace land at prices that are similar to what we currently own and we have a good supply in front of us.
There are other regions where land prices have moved more significantly and we're going to take longer to work through the positions that we have and maximize the profits because we can't replace them.
So it's a blended approach.
It's not one approach or another but it's trying to maximize the returns with the positions that we currently have.
And furthermore I've been with Horton for 30 years.
We have the strongest balance sheet in the history of our company.
And why would we want to go out and just chase volume and have to basically end up with a less-strong balance sheet just simply because we're having to replace the land at a much higher price than what we can slowly work through these assets or our margin -- or work through these assets [indiscernible] drop below.
Research Division</strong> I understand.
Was the cancellation rate different by product and by region? Yes.
There was some variation on cancellation rate by region.
It ranged from 13% to 25%.
But I don't have really any visibility into the breakdown of the product behind that.
The difference in the cancellation rate just to take that one step further was actually pretty similar compared to the prior year.
So there was just some difference in the cancellation rate in the region last year as well.
Our next question is coming from Alex Barrón from the Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> As far as I'm concerned I think you should be feeling pretty good because your results were a lot better than everybody else's.
We feel very good and obviously somebody got me cranked up with my Type A personality.
We feel very good here thank you.
LLC</strong> I guess my question is it seems like the overall sentiment is that as interest rates rise the guys who get hurt the most is entry-level buyers and you guys probably cater more to the entry-level buyers and other builders.
Especially as the cycle has unfolded I think you've taken advantage of land positions that maybe other people have overlooked.
So my question is do you think that ultimately if rates stay here you'll end up benefiting from kind of like a substitution effect where maybe they can't afford somebody else's home and they'll come buy yours? Or is it you think that entry-level buyers do have more challenges than which just ultimately prices them out? I just think generally speaking entry-level buyers obviously are more challenged from a credit perspective in terms of qualifying for our homes.
But I would also say that our focus on entry-level is certainly not a weakness it's a strength because we've been the leader of entry-level homes for years and years and years.
And just like Don Horton said back when Chairman Paul Volcker and President Ronald Reagan were President and mortgage rates were 18% and prime rate was 21.5% we were still selling homes.
And if you listen -- what's interesting to me I even listen to business commentators on television talk about "Well geez the first time I bought my home I had a 12% mortgage rate but that didn't deter me from buying a home." So I believe that for us and our perspective and our experience that entry-level buyers will always be welcome at Horton and will always be a large component of our business and we'll always work with them in terms of trying to figure out how we get them qualified for a home.
And frankly we have our Home Buyers Club which is a part of our mortgage company which is really a very efficient process and a very successful process that most people most other builders don't have of getting those first-time homebuyers familiar with the credit system in this country and helping them understand what it takes for them to buy a home.
LLC</strong> And in terms of I guess adjusting to if the sales rate stays lower than perhaps where they were where you want them to be is the progression to basically just increase incentives again or to just stop raising prices? Or how does that work in your mind? Well first our sales are not lower than we want them to be.
Our sales are according to plan and -- but it's community-by-community.
Depending on what we're seeing in a community we will adjust.
Right now we're raising prices in many more communities than we're not.
So right now it's on plan.
But it is a constant day-to-day adjustment process community-by-community.
And don't get confused and I know you're not Alex.
For our industry to continue to grow we absolutely must-have job growth in this country.
And to date the job growth in this country has been very minimal.
And the industry cannot continue to grow at the rates that we all want to grow without effective job creation in this country.
Our next question is coming from Jim Krapfel for Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering what your mix of land acquisition is? In terms of raw land versus finished lots? And then to what extent are you using options on finished lots? During the quarter we invested $263 million in purchases of finished lots.
We invested $280 million in land purchases and we invested $167 million in land development.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I don't know if I missed this but your ASP per square foot your cost per square foot was that -- did you say that before? I don't believe we have yet.
We still have positive gap in terms of ASP per square foot versus cost.
Our ASP per square-foot was up 7.9% and our cost per square foot I believe was up 7.2%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally I know in the prior quarter you talked about looking at M&amp;A opportunities.
Are you still looking at that? We're always engaged in M&amp;A opportunities and that's really all we can say about it.
We've been one of the more prolific acquirers in the industry and we will continue to be in that segment of the business.
Our next question is coming from David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question and I think I don't want to beat a dead horse here and I think you guys have done a very good job talking about affordability and buyers and everything.
But I wanted to ask the question from a little bit different perspective.
So accept my apologies in advance that we're beating this horse.
But I think the question is really about variable mortgages and whether you're seeing a shift from a fixed-rate 30-year fixed-rate product to adjustable-rate mortgages in the mortgage business? And is that something that you guys use to try to work with buyers that are having affordability issues especially in the club and trying to get folks able to qualify for loans.
Have you seen a shift there? And is it something you guys would kind of push towards a buyer? You go to a 7-1 arm if the 30-year fixed-rate wasn't working? First of all we have not seen any significant shift at all from fixed-rate mortgages.
Even at a 4.5% rate I think everyone's happy to pretty much lock that in.
And second we will present the product alternatives that are available but we do not try to help anyone make their mortgage decision in terms of a product.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I said that the wrong way.
So I apologize.
It wasn't meant to be inferred.
It just seemed like that's an option for somebody.
That's fine.
Adjustable rates are out there but there's not a big-enough spread right now between the fixed-rate mortgage and adjustable-rate mortgage to make it a truly attractive alternative.
And so again with rates where they are even though they've moved up -- with rates where they are if people can lock in for 30 years I think everyone feels pretty good with that for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage.
Research Division</strong> No I agree.
I was thinking hypothetically as we move forward I guess was the point of the question.
But totally understood.
Hypothetically moving forward if the spread increases that may be more appealing to people.
But right now we're not seeing that.
And I think that's one of the things people are missing about our entry-level segment of our businesses is as interest rates do work their up and the pool of affordable buyers decreases you increase that pool by basically different types of financial instruments and different types of mortgages.
And certainly fixed-rate are great today variable rate are going to be better and help buyers get a house in 12 to 18 months.
So we'll use whatever instruments are out there to help them.
Research Division</strong> Well said.
And not everyone's missing it [ph] so that's the good thing.
My second question was on cycle times.
And I think there was -- in the commentary I think Stacey you might have mentioned about cycle times extending and trying to match sales pace with cycle times and not getting too far out ahead of yourself in terms of the cost side and the price side.
I was wondering if you guys could give us some color kind of some more color around cycle times and if that's something that's actually easing a little bit? It seems like a lot of builders are actually metering our pace at this point and it seems like maybe some of the subcontractors have kind of increased the size of their labor force just to try to adjust to this some increased demand in the market.
Well the cycle times are increasing.
And of course that's one of the things that we -- that's reflective on our sales because we concluded that that doesn't make a lot of sense to pre-sell way ahead of ourselves and be subject to variances and changes in our cost structure.
We'd rather sell the home closer to the point in time where we absolutely know for certain the vast majority of our cost before we proceed.
So as a result a number of our subcontractors are increasing the size of their operations.
But I also will tell you that there's a big percentage of subcontractors out there who don't want to grow their businesses back to the size that they were in '03 '04 and '05.
So I think there is some constrained supply of contractors out there.
And as a result one of the reasons that we are pacing our sales with our construction cycle is to make sure that we're maximizing our margins as we close those out.
I think another thing that's impacting our cycle times a little bit is the move towards the larger houses.
They're just going to take a little bit longer to build than the smaller square footage houses that may not have as much interior finish out work to do.
And clearly those homes are more profitable.
And as a result if the cycle time is longer to build a home we expect to get paid more for the home.
Our next question is coming from James McCanless from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was the detail that you gave from Horton's mortgage operations that only 44% of buyers this quarter were first-time.
Was that a function of the sample set or is that related to interest rates and people having to try and requalify or bring more down payment to the table? No I think it's reflective of the shift that we've seeing really over the last 1.5 years gradually getting back to a more normal mix for us.
Historically first-time homebuyers were around 40% and we've been much higher than that but it's been moving down.
We did see a step down this quarter to 44% still above the long-term average.
But I think we're just continuing to move back to that more normal mix.
Research Division</strong> The second question I had is to beat the rate horse another way is if rates continue to move higher from here how does that affect Horton's spec strategy? Do you become a little more conservative? Just would love to get your take on that? Well I don't know that rates have anything to do with our spec strategy.
What has to do with our spec strategy is having the proper number of specs in each one of our communities and based upon the absorption level and what we look at is how many homes are we selling over a construction cycle and how many do we need to have at any one point of time to make sure that we're able to attract the buyer who is relocating.
Or most importantly since realtors are a very instrumental portion of our sales across the country we want to make sure that when a realtor brings a buyer to our subdivision that we have something that we can move someone into within 30 days.
So as a result of the spec strategy they're really not impacted by interest rates.
It's impacted by demand and also being able to have the product for our realtors who are very instrumental in selling a lot of our homes.
Our next question is coming from Mike Roxland from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Given the rise in rates have you seen any particular markets that were particularly adversely affected by the rising rates and by the short-term jumps? Rates went up 100 bps and in the 30- or 60-day period you pointed out -- but just anything that -- any particular markets that really retrenched and how you adjusted? No sir.
It's pretty much even across the board.
No significance other than if you back into what the cancellation rate like Stacey said there were some that had some of our markets had higher cancellation rates than others.
But generally speaking there was no shift in the cancellation rates that was really different across our regions.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Are there any markets that you're considering let's say pulling back from yourself as you deem it to be more susceptible to rates? I know you haven't seen anything any shift thus far.
But if rates continue on this trajectory how do you think about land investment? Are you looking to really focus in particular regions more given the fact they may be more defensive or more -- or less susceptible to widening spreads? Not really.
We're very happy with the markets that we're in and we're well diversified in most in every one of our markets from entry-level to mid-priced homes to high-priced homes.
As I said we're rolling out Emerald in most of our divisions.
So we're well-positioned product-wise and pricing-wise in every one of our markets.
We're looking at our investment strategy.
We're not focused on rates.
What we're focused on is the economy in each of our markets.
That's really the driver of housing demand.
If we're seeing a strong economy with good indicators job growth income growth in a market then that would be an attractive environment for investment regardless of where rates are.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just last quick question.
I know the Emerald product obviously is something that is new to you.
Obviously you've analyzed it over the last couple of years.
But it's a new product for you.
Can you remind us of the strategy that you're pursuing to target that end buyer and how that strategy differs let's say than the entry level? Well let's not get confused.
We've been building expensive homes in this company for quite some time all the way back in '02 '03 '04 and '05 and what we've done is more formalized and identified the product line and come up with the product name so that we could maximize that exposure across the country.
But in terms of Emerald in particular basically the people that we're competing directly with are as I said before the small and medium-sized undercapitalized semi-custom builder.
And certainly we're not trying to build custom homes with our Emerald product but yes we're offering luxury homes that are more well-defined floor plans which permit the buyer to choose more options.
And clearly we have a different group of subcontractors who are building those.
So it's a different quality of home because a luxury buyer demands a different level of quality in the home and basically has a slightly longer construction cycle than our other homes.
But generally speaking we're just appealing to that luxury buyer who basically is looking for a larger home with more amenities in a better location.
Our next question is coming from Joel Locker from FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you have the order breakdown per month in the third quarter to come up with the 68 22.
We said we were up year-over-year in each of the months I don't believe we've given the month-to-month increases.
We typically do not.
We don't typically comment on individual percentages per month.
We talk about the quarter and we talk but the trends for the quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I was just wondering if you guys had a unit number for each.
But on community count how much did that increase from the end of the second quarter to the end of the third quarter? The actual -- 19%.
5%.
5% sequentially.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 5%.
So was that the average or the actually ending count? That's the average.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just thinking if you look at absorptions based on those numbers down about 18% per community from the March quarter to the June quarter I mean that's -- what is usually flattish kind that scenario.
At what point does it come to where you say "Okay we did pricing and let's increase incentives just to get absorption rate back up." Because that is a pretty dramatic fall on a community count basis.
Seasonally we would normally see a decline this time of the year.
Yes 18% maybe a little bit higher drop than what would normally be.
But yes we're going to take this community-by-community.
And depending on what we're seeing in each community we'll make adjustments.
You really cannot generalize what we will do across our country when we're in as many markets and communities that we're in.
Again I'm going to go back to my original statement.
We're not apologizing for a 12% increase in sales and a 30% increase in dollars.
And with the kind of margins that we've increased this quarter we're very proud of those numbers.
If anybody's confused call me.
Our next question is coming from Buck Horne from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'll leave the rate horse alone for now.
But I do want to ask about just the mix of capital being deployed in terms of the land spend.
And it still seems like a large amount of the land spend is going to buy new lots finished or unfinished relative to the amount of land being developed.
You guys already have quite a large bank of land to work on.
So I'm guessing I'm wondering why not reallocate more into developing what you've already got given the shortage of finished lots in the industry that's out there.
Or do you feel like -- is this indicative that you feel like some of the land that you have just maybe isn't positioned quite correctly for where the target buyers are in terms of the move up or the luxury buyer? Simply a timing issue.
We've acquired the land over the course of the last 3 quarters and we're now -- you're going to see us over the course of the next 3 quarters.
We're going to have a lot more development spend than we are going to have land spend.
So it's just a timing issue.
And you're already seeing the trend.
Development spending is about double what it was last year.
So it's been steadily growing as we've been bringing our new projects into line and we're doing the development through phases.
It takes a while after we buy the land frankly to get it engineered and get it designed.
And so if even though we want to start moving dirt as quickly as possible there's a gap between the time we buy and the time we start moving dirt.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us sort of any quantification on what you'd be targeting to spend for land development versus new land acquisition over the next 12 months or so? I think if you look at the quarter-to-quarter trends they've been steadily stepping up and we expect them to continue to steadily step up each quarter as we go into fiscal '14.
But we're not in a position to necessarily quantify the specific dollar amounts.
But I think you will see steady increases in the level of development.
Frankly right now we're well-positioned with our land inventory as you pointed out.
So now the focus is on not buying as much land as we have in the last 3 or 4 quarters but more in terms of developing what we have.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And lastly I just was wondering if you could provide maybe some context or maybe just some perspective on what's going on in Washington the past few days regarding the bill that is circulating about the house about GSE reform whether or not there's going to be a government backstop for the mortgage market or not.
It seems to be having an impact already on mortgage rates.
What's D.R.
Horton's position? What do you think -- how does that affect your thinking? And are you maybe risk-adjusting your capital spend based on what's happening in Washington and where do you think that shakes out? Well frankly we are trying to stay out of politics.
And who knows what they're ultimately going to come up with in Washington.
But I feel very comfortable that we'll be able to adapt to whatever they come up with on mortgages GSEs or whatever it is just like we have for the last 30 years.
So I want to stay out of politics because it's...
No upside.
Yes no upside.
We have reached the end of our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to turn the floor back to management for any further or closing comments.
Just want to say thank you.
We're very proud of our quarter.
As like I said before if you're confused call us because we're very proud of our quarter.
We're focusing on profitability and again to quote our ex-CFO we never can make a coupon payment or we can't make a deposit in the bank on a unit.
We're making it on dollars.
We're going to continue to focus on growing our company conservatively as we have keeping our strong balance sheet and focusing on profitability.
And again D.R.
and I want to thank all of our employees.
You're doing an extraordinary job of competing in a good new environment that we have out there.
So let's continue to do that and we're outperform everyone else in the industry.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States Fiscal Year End and Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Donald Tomnitz President and CEO for D.R.
Horton.
Thank you Mr.
Tomnitz you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and CFO; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Senior Vice President.
As always before we get started Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there's no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? Thank you.
In fiscal year 2013 we experienced significant improvement on our homebuilding operating results.
Our investments in home in inventory -- homes in inventory land lots and development positioned us to take advantage of a sharp increase in demand for new homes in the first half of the fiscal year.
And we also benefited from rising sales prices as housing supplies struggled to catch up with demand.
Our results from homebuilding and financial services were highlighted by $657.8 million of pretax income and a 10.5% pretax operating margin.
Our strong pretax operating margin was driven by 310-basis point year-over-year improvement in our home sales gross margin to 20.8% and 100-basis point improvement in our SG&amp;A expenses as a percentage of homebuilding revenues to 10.7%.
The value of our net sales orders in fiscal 2013 increased 37% due to a 19% increase in homes sold and a 15% increase on our average selling price to $261 400.
We experienced strong pricing throughout fiscal 2013 with very solid demand during the first half of the year.
In the September quarter our gross sales were up year-over-year by 19% in dollars and 3% on homes sold.
Our cancellation rate increased to 31% during the quarter resulting in a net sales increase of 14% in dollar value and a 2% decrease in net homes sold.
Our fourth quarter sales reflect a moderation in demand that started in mid-May and lasted through September as economic conditions remained sluggish and potential homebuyers adjusted to both higher mortgage rates and increasing home prices.
However we saw improved sales trends in October as our net sales orders and dollar value increased year-over-year and were higher than any month in the September quarter.
We are now in the slowest seasonal sales period of the year so our next good read on sales demand will be after the traditional spring selling season begins in February.
We believe the housing market remains in a period of recovery.
And our expectation continues to be that the pace of the recovery will vary across our local operating markets and will be closely tied to improvements in each market's economy as measured by growth in jobs household incomes household formations and increases in consumer confidence.
We have seen a significant increase in housing demand during the past 2 years but demand still remains below normal historical levels across most of our markets which leaves opportunity for further improvement.
Pricing has recovered sharply in certain markets but still has room to increase in many other markets.
We have also continued to proactively control our rate of sales while raising prices in some of our strongest performing communities to ensure that our sales pace and backlog align with our construction cycles which have lengthened slightly.
This ensures that our construction costs are certain before we establish the sales price of the home which enhances our gross margins and profitability.
Mike? Our net sales orders in the fourth quarter reflected our pricing power across many of our markets and our increased mix of move-up buyers as the value of net sales orders increased 14% and our average sales price increased to $276 800.
The value of our backlog increased 33% from a year ago to $2.2 billion with an average sales price per home of $269 400 and homes in backlog increased 13% to 8 205 homes.
Bill? In the fourth quarter our consolidated pretax income increased 104% to $202.8 million from $99.2 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our pretax income as a percentage of consolidated revenue was 10.9% an increase of 350 basis points from 7.4% in the year-ago quarter.
Homebuilding pretax income more than doubled to $189.4 million from $85.7 million and financial services pretax income decreased slightly to $13.4 million from $13.5 million.
Net income for the fourth quarter was $139.5 million or $0.40 per diluted share compared to $100.1 million or $0.30 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Mike? Our fourth quarter home sales revenues increased 40% to $1.8 billion on 6 866 homes closed up from $1.3 billion on 5 575 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $262 500 up 14% compared to the prior year driven by pricing power and an increased mix of larger move-up homes.
Our backlog conversion rate for the quarter was 69% compared to 76% in the prior-year quarter.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2014 we expect our conversion rate to be around 65% trending back down to a more normal historical rate.
This also reflects our continuing mix shift to larger homes with longer construction cycles and delivering more built-to-order homes than in recent years.
Stacey? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the fourth quarter were 21.9% up 380 basis points from the year-ago period.
250 basis points of the margin increase was due to improving market conditions resulting in reduced incentives and higher average selling prices in excess of cost increases.
80 basis points was due to lower relative costs for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenue and the remaining 50 basis points of the margin increase was due to lower amortized interest and property taxes.
Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue for the fiscal year was 20.8% up 310 basis points from the prior year.
210 basis points of the increase was due to improving market conditions 60 basis points was due to lower relative warranty and construction defect costs and 40 basis points was due to lower amortized interest and property taxes.
During the fourth quarter we recorded $5.9 million in land option charges for write-offs of earnest money deposits and due diligence costs for projects that we do not intend to pursue.
We also recorded $21.2 million of impairment charges related primarily to longer-term projects that we held through the downturn and recently decided to sell as is to redeploy the capital into more productive assets.
Don? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $186.6 million compared to $145.9 million in the prior-year quarter.
As a percentage of homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A improved 90 basis points to 10.3% from 11.2%.
We continue to leverage our fixed costs structure while at the same time building our sales and production capabilities where necessary.
For fiscal 2013 homebuilding SG&amp;A expense was $649.9 million compared to $528.7 million in fiscal 2012.
As a percentage of homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A improved 180 basis points to 10.7% from 12.5% a year ago as we made significant progress toward returning to our annual SG&amp;A goal of 10%.
In the first 2 quarters of fiscal 2014 we expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues to increase seasonally from our most recent quarter as we typically deliver fewer homes in the first half of the fiscal year than in the second half.
Bill? Since our active inventory exceeded our debt level we recorded no direct interest expense this quarter compared to $4.9 million of homebuilding interest expense in the year-ago quarter.
For the year we expensed $5.1 million of homebuilding interest compared to $23.6 million in the prior year.
We expect that our active inventory will continue to exceed our debt in fiscal 2014.
The improvements in our home -- in our gross profit percentage SG&amp;A expense ratio and interest expense expanded our homebuilding pretax margin to 10.4% in the current quarter an increase of 380 basis points from 6.6% in the year-ago quarter.
Stacey? Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $13.4 million down slightly from $13.5 million in the year-ago quarter.
This quarter reflected a more competitive pricing environment whereas the first part of this year and the prior fiscal year benefited from unusually favorable market conditions which produced higher-than-normal gain on sales of mortgages.
88% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations.
Our mortgage company handled the financing for 53% of our homebuyers this quarter with virtually all loans meeting eligibility requirements for sale to Fannie Mae Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 45% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter down from 51% in the year-ago quarter.
Borrowers originating loans with our mortgage company during the quarter had an average FICO score of 723 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 89%.
First-time homebuyers represented 43% of the closings handled by our mortgage company this quarter compared to 53% in the year-ago quarter.
Bill? Since June our construction in progress and finished homes inventory increased by approximately $312 million excluding noncash items.
We had 17 000 homes in inventory at the end of September of which 1 300 of our homes were models 9 000 were speculative homes and 3 000 of the specs were completed.
Our average community count for the quarter increased 17% from a year ago.
In our fourth fiscal quarter our investments in lots land and development totaled $552 million of which $215 million was for land development $183 million was to purchase finished lots and $154 million was to purchase land.
During the fiscal year we invested $2.6 billion in land lots and development.
At September 30 2013 we owned 127 000 lots and controlled 54 000 lots through option contracts.
33 000 of our owned lots and 29 000 of our option lots are finished.
We are very well positioned to meet demand in fiscal 2014 and 2015 with our 181 000 total lots owned and controlled.
Stacey? Our unrestricted homebuilding cash totaled $913 million at fiscal year end.
During the quarter we increased the size of our revolving credit facility from $600 million to $725 million and extended its maturity date to September 2018.
At September 30 we had available capacity on our revolving credit facility of $663 million and no cash borrowings outstanding.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at September 30 was $3.3 billion.
At September 30 our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash was 36.7% and our gross homebuilding leverage was 44.6%.
Mike? Subsequent to year end we acquired the homebuilding operations of Regent Homes for approximately $35 million in cash.
Regent operates in Charlotte Greensboro and Winston Salem North Carolina.
We acquired approximately 240 homes in inventory 300 lots and control of an additional 600 lots through option contracts.
We also acquired a sales backlog of 213 homes valued at $31.1 million.
Don? In closing this quarter was D.R.
Horton's most profitable fourth quarter since 2006 with $202.8 million of pretax income.
The majority of our operating metrics improved on a year-over-year basis this quarter.
The value of our sales closings and backlog increased by 14% 40% and 33% respectively.
Our pretax income increased 104%.
Our pretax income margin increased 350 basis points to 10.9%.
Our gross margin on home sales revenues increased 380 basis points.
Our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues improved 90 basis points.
Our average sales price increased 16% as we experienced pricing power in many of our markets and as our expanded move-up and luxury product offerings have received a very positive reception from our customers.
Finally we would like to welcome David Auld to his new position as Chief Operating Officer for D.R.
Horton.
David will oversee all homebuilding regions and will play a solid role in guiding our operations.
David has been with a company for 25 years and we welcome his extensive operating experience to our executive team.
Congratulations Brother Auld.
We would like to personally thank all of our D.R.
Horton team.
You are executing our business plan superbly which is why our company continues to perform so well with improving margins profitability and returns continue taking good care of our customers and outperforming in fiscal 2014.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now host any questions you have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from David Goldberg with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to first talk a little about mortgage underwriting in the market today.
We've heard from a number of banks that we've seen -- that there are overlays that they are putting on FHA mortgages are loosening.
And I want an idea if you guys are seeing any of that in your business.
Obviously not necessarily in the FICO scores coming down at all but do you see loosening with your clients and do you think that's going to help us to kind of get into the selling season next year? David we've not seen any significant changes in the underwriting standards that are available to our customers.
We have seen certain banks which have had more restrictive overlays now begin to make those overlays less restrictive so they match what's currently in the market.
But in terms of an overall loosening we're not seeing anything significant.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my follow-up question it seems like we've kind of hit this slow patch in the market and everyone -- it feels like most of the builders are general playing well in the sandbox and nobody's starting to discount really heavily.
Do you think that if the slowdown were to continue and just based on your historical experience do you think if it were to continue into the selling season do you think you would see more of your competitors start to discount start to get more aggressive to drive sales volumes? Or you think everyone kind of realizes that might be kind of a zero-sum game at this point? I don't think there's any question that will start with incentives if -- the pace continues into the strong selling season around Super Bowl Sunday.
Currently even though we were down slightly in terms of units in the quarter we were still up 14% in terms of sales dollars.
We think that's a great relationship.
And currently we're not overreacting because this is normally a slow part of the season.
But we have plans in place coming January to make sure that we drive the right amount of the absorptions relative to our margins because it's a balancing act.
And we've got plans on a community-by-community basis and I'm sure other builders probably will follow suit.
And in general I think we'll see different activity from market to market and that will depend largely on what the inventory levels are.
In general most of our markets' inventory levels are either low or imbalanced and to the extent that inventory levels are not out of line or higher than where demand is I think you'll see builders adjust their production schedules to match demand which then would not require as much incentives.
But right now we think we're on great position.
We're up 14% in terms of sales dollars in the fourth quarter and we're going to see what happens and we're going to adjust accordingly.
Our next question today is coming from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask first about the soft patch that we've seen in demand since the summer.
When it first unfolded I think a lot of folks in the market were imagining since it was rate driven at least partially if not significantly that the historic pattern of the first-time buyer being harder hit would generally play out.
And that was the perception.
But as the soft patch has dragged down a little bit it's become clear that it's a little bit broader based than that.
I wanted to ask for your folks' thoughts on that with your special insights into the first-time buyer market.
Is it just the first-time buyers that are principally what's driving this weakness or what do you folks see? I think it's applying across all product and price lines to be frank with you.
And I don't mean to date myself but as I sat around and look at the people here no one around this table can remember mortgage rates being higher than 6% or 7%.
And I think one of the factors that we are dealing with quite frankly is most analysts and most young buyers especially first-time homebuyers in the market today are -- have been accustomed to low rates for all their lives.
So I do know one thing: Rates are going to go up and we're going to have to deal with those on a go-forward basis.
But I think rates going up will indicate that the economy is doing better.
We're creating jobs and I think that will be good for the economy and that will be good for us.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I also wanted to ask about -- in your product mix you folks mentioned having had some success in some of your move-up in your luxury product.
I also noticed that you mentioned the decline in your mortgage subsidiary in terms of the first-time buyer going from 53% to 43%.
So I wanted to ask about your product mix strategy going forward here.
I mean obviously you have shifted more towards the move-up buyer.
Is that something you would expect to continue? And is that stat out of the mortgage subsidiary is that just an anomaly this quarter? Is that reflective of the products mix shift? Well clearly we have expanded our Emerald and our upper price point and we're getting very good reception in the marketplace from that.
But be clear we're expanding our business in all price points and all product lines whether it be the low end the mid-priced or the high end.
And Stacey can speak more specifically to that.
Yes and I think you are seeing that flow through in our mortgage company because they are primarily focused on our business.
So the mix of their results is probably a decent indication of what we're seeing in the home buyer -- excuse me in the homebuilder.
Just as a point of reference in Q4 the number of homes that we closed over $500 000 was just under 5% compared to 3% last year.
But the dollars have grown a little more significantly they are now 12.6% compared to 8.3%.
But as Don mentioned we do plan to stay very focused on the first-time buyer and the first-time move-up.
So in terms of trying to get where that number's going we don't have complete clarity.
And I would say also something driving that 53% 44% relationship in terms of first-time buyers being down is that as we expand that higher price point you're dealing with a more second- or third-time buyer and they're a little bit more familiar with the financial system and a lot of those people drive their home mortgages and they have other mortgage companies as opposed to just DHI Mortgage company that they've done business with in the past.
So a lot of that has to do with their relationships in the marketplace as opposed to a first-time buyer who in many times has never dealt with a mortgage company.
From a longer-term historical perspective historically our normal percentage of our business that was first-time buyers was around 40% 35% to 40% range.
So we continue to move closer to that longer-term historical range and our mix is really getting back to normal levels.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I think a quarter or so ago you guys were really the first to indicate that you saw -- you were witnessing some effect from interest rates on the business.
And also you were one of the first to talk about a bit of a shift in your land-buying strategy to really focusing on lots where you felt like you could recoup your investment relatively quickly.
And particularly on that second point I observed that your land spend this quarter if you look at your land spend as a percentage of revs it's kind of in the low side relative to your peer group indicating that you've been a little bit more cautious in buying land than your peers.
I was curious if you could comment on whether you expect land values to get incrementally more attractive over the course of the next several months.
Or what in general your land-buying policy is today with respect to an eye for recouping your investment quickly? As you know Steve land prices continue to go down very slowly and go up very rapidly.
And as we have adjusted our land purchases I believe the same is happening in the rest of the industry.
And we're beginning to see somewhat more cooperation from our land seller today than what we were getting 6 9 12 months ago just simply because there's less demand in the marketplace today.
And I think that will be reflective come the spring depending upon how well sales go in the spring.
But land sellers could -- will adjust accordingly.
But generally speaking land prices haven't come down but they're a lot more flexible on terms it seems like than what they were 6 and 9 months ago.
And Steve I think a little bit of the slower activity you saw this quarter certainly is reflective.
When we see a little bit softer sales environment then we certainly do adjust our spending.
But it also is reflective of the fact that we built up our lot supply very nicely in fiscal '12 and the first half of fiscal '13.
So we're in a very good position from a lot supply and really don't need to add too much here in the short term.
So we have some flexibility in when we pick and choose to go make our investments.
As D.R.
would say we made some good purchases over the last 12 months.
We are bringing those raw land purchases into development have them bringing them under development.
And so our feeling is is that we're in a great position with lower-priced land hopefully than our competitors since we bought a little bit earlier and we ought to be able to help supplement and protect our gross margins on a go-forward basis with the new good projects that we're bringing on at Horton.
Research Division</strong> Yes great that's very helpful.
If we could -- I wanted to ask you a follow-up question with respect to land.
This quarter you took some charges for walking away from options and also impairing some older lots you were pointing out.
I guess first of all can you give us a sense for the options that you decided to walk away from roughly what vintage are we talking about? Not an exact year but I mean are we talking like this was stuff that was recently purchased or older stuff? And then with respect to the impairments if you can give us a sense for whether or not there are additional lots that are out there that you own that are sort of -- you're sort of mulling it over.
They're kind of close of the threshold where you'd say "Well this is something that we might want to sort of walk away from." Or if you feel like what we saw this quarter was pretty much it? I'll let Bill handle the second part of the question.
The first part I'd like to speak to specifically and that is we did walk away from earnest money deposits and due diligence expenses on land deals that we were working but as the market slowed we didn't want to acquire those lots because we didn't need those lots.
So I learned and we have learned years ago your cheapest walkaway is your earnest money as opposed to buying some piece of land or buying some lots that you really don't need in your inventory.
That's what we chose to do.
Bill? So an option to walk away is clearly -- those are land deals we've been currently working over the last months several quarters perhaps over the last year.
In terms of the projects that we took the charges on those were projects that we have owned for a number of years that we bought pre-downturn.
And as we evaluated our best return opportunities we had had plans to build through those projects but our returns were going to be very low.
And so as we evaluated those we determined our best option was to sell them in the short term and reinvest our cash into better opportunities.
On a regular basis we disclose our overall evaluation for potential charges and the number of projects that we continue to evaluate but that list has continued to get smaller over time.
And I believe it will continue to as long as we continue to see market recovery.
There certainly could be additional projects in the future.
But as of right now we believe that everything that we're going to move that requires a charge at its current time has been taken.
In a couple of instances we basically what drove it was we had offers from buyers to purchase it and we were forced to make a decision as to whether we want to keep it or take the cash in today.
And we chose to take the bird in the hand.
Our next question today is coming from Mike Roxland from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just first question your pricing was better than we were modeling and yet volumes were a little bit lighter and overall gross margins were better than we were expecting.
Was there anything from a cost vantage point in the quarter that benefited you? Was it lumber? Was it OSB? Or maybe was it just lower basis land that's beginning -- that still continuing to flow through the P&amp;L? We're still dealing with increased costs right for this quarter.
And for the fiscal year we've been able to increase our sales prices faster than what we have experienced our cost increases.
But we still have good strong cost increases from our subs and our manufacturers and that we think that will continue into calendar year 2014.
Our goal from our national purchasing as well as from a local purchasing perspective is to continue to hold those costs down.
And we believe that we're in a preeminent position to do that just simply because in most of our markets we are the largest builder.
We're starting more homes than most people and we're the largest builder nationally which certainly helps us with our national contracts.
So we're proactive in terms of those respects but so far we have been able to increase our prices faster than our costs have increased.
Research Division</strong> Got it very helpful.
Just last question I wanted to get a sense from you as how you see margins progressing next year or two.
You achieved a 29% gross margin this quarter.
The last time you achieved this type of margin was back in 2006.
So how much further do you think margins can go especially as the higher cost land you're purchasing either today or like a month ago starts to flow through your P&amp;L? Well first of all we're not purchasing as much land today or in the past 6 months at a higher cost.
We feel like that we're in a preeminent position based upon our purchases 12 and 18 months ago that we're developing and bringing the market here for fiscal year '14.
But as Stacey likes to say we've increased our margins and we're hanging on to every bit as strongly as we can.
And that's going to be really impacted I think clearly when it comes to the Spring selling season and we have specific absorptions for community by community.
And I don't want anybody to think that we're sitting here asleep at the wheel because we have a plan for each one of our communities to hit a specific absorption level and a gross margin level and we're going to fine-tune that with the ROI.
So we're going to drive our absorptions and keep in mind our gross margins and our ROI.
We've seen a significant improvement on our gross margins primarily as we saw sharp jumps in prices in certain markets because demand was outpacing the housing supply.
And so we've now recovered into a normal operating range.
As we move forward and as the supply is catching up to demand we will still do everything we can to improve our gross margins.
But our expectation is that the increases in sales price will moderate as we have caught up on the demand side and until we see more substantial improvement in the overall economy and in the economy of our individual markets.
And as we said in our conference call script we have had price increases on a number of our markets significant last year but there are other markets where we haven't experienced that kind of increase.
So we're hoping that those markets that have had a lesser increase in 2013 will have a stronger increase in '14 and help us maintain our gross margins or even hopefully improve them.
But right now I would agree with Stacy.
We -- it's going to be a lot more difficult to improve our margins on the scale we did in '13 and '14.
Our next question today is coming from Eli Hackel from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just want to go back to your October comment better than any of the month in the quarter.
Was that driven by anything related to incentives? Was traffic constant from the third quarter -- from the fourth quarter into October and maybe they just ended up closing in October? Just curious about the comments that you made there.
Yes it's difficult know exactly what's caused it.
But just anecdotally we do hear that there could be a little bit of pickup in demand.
And certainly buyers have had an opportunity to adjust now to higher rates prices out in the marketplace are probably increasing quite at the paces they were in as many communities so I think certainly buyers could be coming back.
There could be some level of incentives that are a little bit more than you may be seeing in some of our communities or with some other builders.
It could be there.
But we're just pleased to see certainly some pickup in demand in October.
That's a good point Bill because as D.R.
remembers when he sat in a model home himself self-selling homes when the interest rates go up you have a dearth of traffic there for 1 week or 2 as people are adjusting to the higher rates.
And I think Bill makes a great point and that is sales prices have increased dramatically in a lot of markets over the course of fiscal year '12.
They are much more muted today.
And I think the buyers are clearly getting more comfortable with where pricing is today.
And they're beginning to become more comfortable with where rates are today.
And as homebuilder I would say based upon all my years of experience as I told Stacey a few moments ago if you're waiting for a better rate and a better house price you're going to wait and you're going to find higher rates and higher house prices.
So I think they're coming to -- a number of buyers are coming to the conclusion that rates are not that high home prices are not that high and today is a great time to buy.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more question on the land.
It sounds like you're saying you're spending a little bit less now than you were.
I mean I don't need your specific 2014 guidance but do you think you'll end up spending less in '14 than you did in '13? In terms of a land acquisition today it will really be determined based on where we see the sales environment in the Spring.
But today our expectations is we will purchase less land in '14 than '13.
However our land development spending is increasing quite a bit as we develop the land that we bought in fiscal '12 and '13 and bring new communities in line.
So our overall investments may not go down but I think the mix will shift definitely more towards more development.
Our next question today is coming from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk about your orders geographically and not at the metro level but just maybe in your reporting regions there's a bit of a variance in terms of the different year-over-year changes.
And so could you just talk about that in light of also comment on how much community count may have impacted some of those different regions? Sure.
As we look across our regions on a year-over-year basis for the quarter on sales clearly our largest 2 regions in the Southeast and the South Central had very solid results up in both units and then also seeing very good double-digit improvements in average selling prices.
That's the core of our operation and we certainly saw good results there.
As we see good demand there's a lot more job growth and more dynamic economies in many of those markets.
On the flip side you can see our next largest region in the West units were down or number of homes were down 15% but our total value was up by 12%.
So there that's reflective of significant pricing increases in the West.
And I would say in general we probably have more of our communities where we are pacing our rate of sales to our construction pace in our West region than in other places.
If you look at that West that is totally reflective of what Horton did in the quarter but most importantly in the fiscal year.
I'm not going to apologize for being down 2% on units.
But if you look at our total dollars of sales being up 14% that's a great metric.
And we could have driven the volume more but we chose to collect the profits and focus on the dollars and increase our average sales prices market to market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question is can you offer -- can you provide any preliminary outlook on expected community count growth in 2014? We would expect it to continue to be up.
I think the rate of increase we're at 17% this quarter.
I don't know that the rate of increase will continue that high on a year-over-year basis but we do expect it to continue to be up on a year-over-year basis at least for the next couple of quarters.
Our next question today is coming from Dan Oppenheim from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can talk a little bit in terms of the spec homes that you have in terms of the 3 000 completed and the 9 000 under construction right now.
Just wondering if this is where you want them to be? So what percentage of sales during the quarter were specs in October that you bring this down at all in terms of the better sales activity there? We're sitting at about a 53% spec ratio today.
And I would say to you that we have adequate inventory in each one of our markets to meet our current demand.
And certainly in this time of the year we expect our specs to work their way downward simply as we sell our existing specs so that we can put new and fresh inventory out there come February and March when the selling season begins.
And our percentage of specs that we sold -- stays pretty much somewhere in the 60% range each quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so no effort to bring that down and to bring the spec sales up in October and bring the level down? We would like to increase sales and we'd like to increase specs of course Dan.
And we're working on trying to bring the specs down slightly so that we can refresh some of our inventory out there.
We're in that normal range so no major adjustments at all.
Yes.
And Dan one of the things we've seen too is the spec percentage tends to follow our first-time home buyer percentage.
So we've seen our first-time home buyer percentage trending down.
It's entirely possible that specs may move down a little bit too because more of the higher-priced homes stay in backlog longer and people choose to do more customization to build jobs.
But we kept our spec percentage pretty much the same year after year after year after year.
And Horton has always had slightly higher specs than other builders largely because we focus on doing a lot of business with realtors as opposed to spending advertising dollars.
And as I've said many times before realtors have one thing in common.
They like to collect their commission as quickly as they possibly can.
And that runs in conjunction with our homebuyers who especially in this type of rate environment are trying to take advantage of the interest rates before change.
So we have a buyer who when get qualified they want to close as quickly as they can before rates move up and they can't qualify any longer.
And the realtors who represent a huge percentage of our sales on a month-to-month basis they want to be able to collect their commission in a 30-day period as opposed to a 4- or 5-month period on a build job.
Our next question today is coming from Joel Locker from FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on amortized interest that's about 160 basis points in gross margins.
What do you expect that for 2014? Joel it's been declining as our overall leverage has remained lower.
It's probably at pretty close to its low point as we're now capitalizing all of our interest.
We're not directly expensing any now.
I think our capitalized interest in inventory will rise a bit a little bit closer to our historic levels and then the level of amortized through cost of sales could increase slightly as well.
I don't expect any dramatic shifts though from here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And on community count what did you end the quarter with? I mean how much was it up sequentially from say June 30 to September 30? 1% sequentially.
Our next question is coming from Stephen East from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Bill you mentioned in community growth not as high in '14 as in '13.
Is that purely internal issues? Are you seeing stuff -- getting things approved getting through the pipeline all of that.
We hear it in some markets didn't know if that was an issue.
And also when you look at the pricing that you think you'll be bringing your communities out this year how does that compare to what type of gross margins you're getting today versus underwriting? Are we higher lower about what you expected as you went through the underwriting process? In recent quarters our community count has been up 15% to 20% in that range which is pretty significant.
By and large I would expect over the next couple of quarters for the communities to come online reflective of our land spend in fiscal '12 and '13.
Our land spend in more recent quarters has moderated a bit from those levels.
I would expect community count to continue to increase of the same pace although we expect it to continue to increase certainly.
In terms of our margin expectations on our new communities that's one of the areas that we have very very strong expectations.
We feel very good about the investments that we've made in fiscal '12 and early '13.
We certainly set strong margin hurdles for those projects and we've seen market improvement on -- in general since we made those purchases.
So our expectations is the margins should come in very good there which hopefully can provide some lift to our margins.
Or if we see some softening in the market and perhaps incentives rise or anything like that that provides us some cushion and some flexibility to hopefully allow us to keep or maintain our margins up in the level where we are today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great answer.
And then if we look -- your SG&amp;A surprised me a little bit.
It ran about 70% of sales growth.
Your SG&amp;A growth was about 70% of your sales growth.
Anything unusual going on there? Is that stepping up the Emerald division? Is there something else moving there because always are typically outstanding on this line? First thing to point out Steven is that if you're looking at sequential growth from Q3 to Q4 as we talked about last quarter in Q3 our SG&amp;A benefited by 40 basis points as a percentage of revenue due simply to changes in our compensation accruals due to our stock price decrease last quarter.
So the sequential change is affected by that 40-basis point benefit last quarter.
And when we look at it exclusive of that the change in the quarter is more closely in our historical trends.
And I would also say to you as our business has grown we've added more employees throughout the year.
And we've been slow to hire.
And as a result a lot of that what you see working its way through the SG&amp;A has just been the realization that we needed to hire more people to be able to grow our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then just the last thing I had.
One housekeeping item is what were the land sales and the revenues? And then Stacey your Emerald division could you just talk a little bit about that about where you all are where would you ultimately like to have that as a percentage of your business that type of thing? Well I'd say is we're at the very formative stages with our Emerald division.
And we haven't rolled out in the number of communities some of which we are developing lots.
So we don't have the products online yet.
But the product offerings have essentially been from about $500 000 up to typically $1.2 million $1.5 million except for Palo Alto in California where we basically had a higher-priced homes and that's just based upon the lot price.
But we are receiving the amenity level in these homes to finish out using different subs to build that product line is extraordinary.
And if you ever have a chance to get into one of our Emerald communities you'd be astounded of the high level of finish out and the quality of the floor plans and the quality of the exteriors.
And so as a result we don't know where we can take that business.
But certainly we look at other builders who are focused on that segment of the business and we feel like that we can continue to make strong inroads into their business and grow our segment of the business of Emerald.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the land sales and revs? Land sale revs were $15.8 million for the quarter $61.1 million for the year.
And margin in the quarter was 23.4% on those land sales and 16.7% for the year.
Our next question is coming from Jay McCanless from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Could you repeat the operating details on Regent especially the units that are going into backlog? Regent backlog units were 231 units in backlog -- 213 units in backlog and a $31.1 million sales value.
We acquired 240 homes in inventory and 300 lots.
We also assumed control of another 600 lots in the process.
Research Division</strong> Right.
As with the markets slowing down a little bit has the opportunities for similar deals increased? Are you seeing more deal flow coming across? We're always looking at all transactions that we see coming across.
And I would say that we had seen a bit of an uptick lately with the folks exploring their alternatives people that have been through a few cycles.
And maybe they're trying to time the top of the market and maybe they're looking at the market cycle.
Whatever's driving it we are seeing more deal flow.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I can sneak one more in.
What should we expect for the tax rate for next year? Around 37% could fluctuate a little bit either side of that but around 37% is our current expectation.
Our next question is coming from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question just on pricing trends throughout the fourth quarter.
DT you mentioned that you're trying to hold the line in incentives -- on incentives and maybe your actions might be different seeing how things might come together in January.
But I believe if I'm not mistaken in the past you may be referred to to a degree -- or maybe other builders have I apologize if it hasn't been yourselves but kind of percent of communities where you've been able to raise price and maybe by what degree of magnitude? Certainly things have slowed in the fourth quarter but it does appear that you're still largely at minimum holding the line on price if not raising in some areas.
So I was just trying to get a sense if you could give us an idea what percent of communities you have been able to raise price either through higher base price or lower incentives and on the flip side what percent -- what percent you might have had to raise incentives here or there and how that contrasts to the previous quarter? I can answer that question very briefly.
Thank goodness we've never told you that information.
You must have had us confused with someone else.
Generally speaking clearly the demand has been more muted in this past quarter.
And this as I said earlier is our normal seasonally slow period.
And again given the fact that we are up 14% in terms of total dollar sales in the quarter we're not going to overreact.
I don't want to overreact and it's not the time to overreact.
We had a wonderful September.
And that was probably driven some by increased demand just off the top from people getting more familiar with the mortgage rates more familiar with the housing prices.
But we are also in certain areas certain communities also having sales programs sales contests and that sort of thing division by division community by community selective basis.
So in those areas we are offering some incentives to drive that increase.
But we're not going to overreact.
We're going to wait see what happens in January and February.
But as I want to reiterate we are totally prepared on a community-by-community basis the sales programs for each one of those communities in place ready to implement based upon us wanting to meet a certain absorption level in each one of those communities.
Research Division</strong> And Don when you said happy with September were you referring to October actually the bounce back there? I was thank you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just on October itself is October typically a stronger month than September? Maybe there was some type of bounce back? Again people getting more used to the new environment and -- or would you expect as November and December typically would be more of a slower -- as you get into the quarter would you expect that to be continuing more of a normal seasonality? The normal seasonality would be you'd see your strongest sales in March and April.
And then you'd begin to see just a slow decline throughout the rest of the calendar year with acceleration into January and February.
So October is a seasonally slower time of the year.
It's typically lower than September.
We've also seen this pattern before that we actually saw it last year.
So our October comp was a very tough comp because last year we saw the same thing with October being higher than September.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one if I could.
The SG&amp;A you mentioned in the prepared remarks that you expect to be seasonally higher in the first half of the year.
Assuming that you'll have -- it appears given the backlog and the backlog ASP still a decent I'd expect at least low double-digit revenue growth in the quarter.
Can we still expect year-over-year leverage? That would be our expectation yes.
Our next question is coming from David Williams from Williams Financial Group.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you might be able to shed a little color on what you're seeing in maybe some of the A- and maybe B community? You guys seem to have a little better position maybe outside the city centers.
And just kind of looking for a little commentary on what you're seeing as far as traffic in those areas? We do count our traffic and I don't focus so much on the traffic as I do the hit ratio that our sales people hit because can have -- you can be in a great community with a lot of traffic and if you don't have a salesperson who has what we call high kill ratio then you're not going to have nearly as many sales.
So what we're focusing on is just how many traffic units do they convert to contracts.
And generally speaking our traffic was up in October as our sales and we'll continue to monitor that as we go forward.
Although in November and December those are typically our slowest months of the fiscal year just simply because of the holiday season.
And so we don't have any great expectations about November and December.
But clearly we do have great expectations about January February and March.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then secondly just on your cycle times you'd mentioned that those that become a little more elongated.
Can you frame that maybe with a little -- with days of change there? It's not significant.
We're talking in terms of no more than a 2- or 3-week difference really over the last 12 to 18 months.
Still the vast majority of our homes are constructed in the same range they always have but within the ranges they have shifted no more than 2 or 3 weeks.
But that's enough to move the needle a little bit for us.
It's also being lengthened by our Emerald product line taking longer to construct.
And quite frankly subs have been somewhat slow to grow their businesses simply because of the fact that they don't want to go back to 2005 and 2006.
They want to keep their businesses slightly smaller.
So there are times when we take the next subdivision to a framer or an electrician or a plumber and they say "well take it to somebody else." And so we've had to in certain instances look for other subs to backfill existing sub base simply because they've been through the merry-go-round once before and they don't want to go down the hill again.
Our next question today is coming from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to find out on the options walkaway cost that was a pickup sequentially.
And wanted to ask if of you expect that to trend higher driven by any change in your view on some of the deals that you currently have under contract.
We evaluate each one of those deals on a weekly and even a daily basis because all of those land contracts whether they be option or all-cash purchases come up here.
And we are evaluating where our performance has been in the subdivision what are -- in terms of gross margins and what are our absorptions have been and relative to our next take -- takedown requirement and if we believe that we have adequate lots.
We don't want to do the next takedown we try to extend the contract.
But we're not going to bank lots in a deal where we're making marginal gross margins.
The cheaper route is to close it down and go someplace else redeploy our capital where we can achieve a higher ROI.
Just directionally Jade that was our highest number for a while.
So directionally on average we would expect that to probably come down going forward but it will be lumpy.
I mean those decisions don't happen on a normal basis.
They happen basically at a decision point where we have to make a go-forward or not go-forward decision.
And frankly it's really -- it factors on a division by division city by city market by market basis all relative to what we're doing in that market in terms of returns and how much capital we want to commit to that market and where we can redeploy that capital if we can get a higher return.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And in addition to the takedown time line is pricing also up for negotiation or renegotiation? Absolutely.
I sent an email up to all of our regional presidents and division presidents about 4 or 5 months ago and said "Hey the land market is slowing down.
Now is a good time to go back and see if we can get some of the lot price back the negotiation downward into the sales price of a lot." And sometimes we're successful sometimes we're not.
But it's -- I love D.R.'s comment "You'll never know till you ask." Right.
These runoffs reflect after we've gone through every other possibility whether it's delaying the takes reducing the takes suggesting the price all of those things.
We explore all of those things before we determine that we're not going to move forward.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just on the cancellation rate do you have a sense for how much of that was normal seasonality? I think historically in the fourth quarter the cancellation rate does tend to pick up.
We've seen a little bit of that in the past.
But I believe it was more driven by just the general adjustment that potential homebuyers were going through.
We saw a little bit of that towards the end of Q3 and then that continued on into Q4.
We didn't necessarily comment on it because one month is a little difficult to measure in terms of can rates.
But we did see our can rate come back down a bit in the month of October when we saw a little bit better sales.
But an important point just because we can someone because all of a sudden they couldn't qualify under the existing mortgage we have what we call the Home Buyers Club and those people will go into that club or we'll keep them on the list.
And 1 of 2 ways we're going to still try to figure out how to put them in a home house price or a rate that they can afford.
And just because they can't qualify at a specific rate at our current sales price they might elect them they might be able to get them in a slightly smaller home.
Bottom line is get them in a home today let them experience that appreciation so they have something some basis on their money to get the appreciation and be able to be a future buyer of another home perhaps the one that they couldn't afford today 3 or 4 years out.
Our next question today is coming from Alex Barrón from Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask about that acquisition that you did.
How -- what was the timing like was it at the beginning of this quarter or just very recently? Like how many homes did those guys deliver last year? That acquisition occurred in the first week of October it closed.
And they closed probably about 400 homes in the 12 months leading up to that.
LLC</strong> Okay got it.
And with regards to your tax rate this quarter obviously I think throughout this year you guys have been reversing part of the remaining DTA.
Was there some of that this quarter and what is your remaining DTA valuation allowance? Yes we have been seeing some of that activity in the valuation allowance and other -- there's other tax adjustments that occur in the fourth quarter.
We'll have full disclosure around all of our tax balances DTA valuation allowances and everything in our 10-K.
I don't have all those details here in front of me today but we'll have all those in our 10-K that we'll file here in a week or so.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And Don I guess in your comments about you're not -- you're saying you're not becoming -- what was the word you used? Well you said that you would evaluate what goes on in the next few months.
Are you seeing anybody that is kind of acting irrational in your view? No not really.
Clearly as builders approach their fiscal year end certain builders they begin to offer incentives to hit their expected or desired closings or sales for the year.
And so you always have that Alex and it all depends upon what month their fiscal year ends.
So yes we experienced some of that in a couple of months ago.
But generally speaking I think people are acting rational.
And frankly over the course of the past 18 months or so most of us have been I wouldn't call struggling but we've been striving to meet the demand in the marketplace and been experiencing good pricing.
I think everybody in the industry should be glad to be back to decent demand and decent margin and decent pretax income possibilities on a go-forward basis.
So right now everybody's playing in the sandbox pretty well.
Our next question is coming from Jack Micenko from SIG.
LLLP Research Division</strong> In regards to the Home Buyers Club that you talked about a few questions ago one thing we've seen is the private mortgage insurers have begun to fall out a little bit and move a little bit further down FICO.
And at least one is now running MI down to the 620 level.
And I'm curious if you begun to see any of that out of the mortgage company and sort of expanding the buyer pace on the entry-level side.
And if that's something -- I think you said 720-ish was the average FICO for the quarter.
Where was that number back in sort of more normalized time sort of '03 '04 '02 kind of time frame trying to get a sense of how much sort of buyer pool opening up that could possibly be? Okay.
In reverse order the FICO score was about 723 this quarter.
Historically we would have expected something closer to 710 so not a huge difference from where we are today.
In terms of the MI product and the expanded pool of buyers we're not hearing anything significant about that.
I can ask our mortgage company if you'd like me to and we can follow back up with you.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then have you -- recent reports talking about some of the builders selling some sort of closeout homes to some of the REITs.
Are you active in any of that on the closeout side or some of the specs that maybe hung around in the past? Or is that something you've looked at in the past? Absolutely not.
No interest whatsoever.
Next question is coming from Jim Krapfel for Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned walking away from optioned land just to increase flexibility? And does general experience during the downturn caused you to rethink your land spend next going forward towards more options? Well we would like to do 100% options if we could but there are markets where we cannot.
And simply because the developers aren't large enough or there aren't enough people well capitalized enough to provide us our lots on a timely basis in a cost-effective basis.
So frankly right now if you take a look at our finished lots we have about half of them that we own and about half of them that were optioned and that's probably a pretty normal percentage for us.
Like I said it would be nice to have 100% options with $100 earnest money up on each contract but that's not feasible.
Research Division</strong> Do you see the supply of optioned land coming back any time next couple of years? Actually I don't.
I think what we focused on over the course of the past 18 months is the reason we stepped up our land spend over the last 18 months there for a while was because there weren't option lots available.
And so therefore we needed to get back in the business of being a land developer to provide us the necessary lots to meet the demand.
And it just varies by market by market.
I do know one thing.
Right now the banks are reluctant to lend on a very favorable basis to private developers to the extent that many of them are requiring 50% equity in the deal to develop the lots.
So for a large builder like ourselves well capitalized we're in a preeminent position to be able to be a developer and provide ourselves lots at a cost-effective and timely basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question what were your selling prices per square foot in closings and new orders? We -- I think we have that information available on the closings.
We probably don't have it on the sale.
Bill is looking right now.
We don't have that readily available.
Why don't we just -- again with permission to get back to him later? Yes we'll follow back up with you Jim.
Our next question is coming from Robert Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is actually Desi filling in for Bob.
In the financial services business you highlighted that the competitive environment has become less favorable.
Did you start to see this shift in prior quarters or was it the first quarter that's really impacted you? Can you restate -- to restate your question please? LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
So in the financial services business you highlighted that the competitive environment had become less favorable during the quarter.
Do you see that in prior quarters or was this really the first time that it impacted you? This was the first quarter that it really showed up in our operating margin.
So you saw us running from around 40% operating margin to a lower level this quarter.
Basically there's a lot of capacity in the market origination business right now.
Refis have dwindled as rates moved up.
And so there's more competition for the business that's still available.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would you say that current environment is normal or do you still see it as stable relative to historical trends? This quarter probably falls right in the middle of what we would consider normalized historical trend.
Our final question today is coming from Susan Berliner from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just want to get a little more detail if you can with regards to the markets.
I know you talked about the regions the West being really strong.
But I was wondering if you could talk about any specific markets that are showing any slowdown and highlight those markets that are doing really well? Well I have been reluctant to do that for a long time and I apologize.
I know that we have one of our competitors who seems to walk through and rate each market and I always wait for their rating of the markets.
I hate to give any specific color to you on that because we're very -- I guess we like to focus on our own markets and we don't like to give our competitors any indication of where we've got stronger or weaker markets.
So I would apologize but I prefer not to answer that question.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to the floor back over to Mr.
Tomnitz for any further or closing comments.
Kevin thank you very much for being a great moderator.
We always appreciate you having us on our -- you on our call.
To all of our D.R.
Horton employees we've come a long way as the Virginia Slims commercial says.
Since the '07 '08 and '09 period we -- you've turned in a stellar year for us in fiscal year '13.
We are looking forward to the same and better obviously in fiscal year '14.
And we're optimistic with our existing land position that we bought over the last 2 to 3 years and with us bringing those projects under development.
And we believe we're looking forward to being able to maintain and increase our gross margins in the year ahead and we're looking forward to increase demand in fiscal year '14 over '13.
So thank you very much and God bless.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today Good morning and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Donald Tomnitz President and CEO for D.R.
Horton.
Thank you Mr.
Tomnitz you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Stacey Dwyer Executive Vice President and Treasurer; and Mike Murray Senior Vice President.
Before we get started as usual Stacey? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there's no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? D.R.
Horton is off to a strong start in fiscal 2014.
Our first quarter results were highlighted by $189.7 million of pretax income on $1.7 billion of revenues and a pretax operating margin of 11.4%.
Our home sales gross margin improved 350 basis points year-over-year to our highest level since 2006 setting a firm foundation for a strong profitability as volume grows.
Housing market conditions continue to improve across most of our operating markets and we are optimistic about the upcoming spring selling season.
We are prepared for spring with attractive communities in great locations and a strong supply of finished lots and homes in inventory to capture the expected increase in demand.
Our weekly sales pace accelerated in January as compared to the first quarter which could be an early sign of strong demand to come in the spring.
Bill? In the first quarter our consolidated pretax income increased 76% to $189.7 million from $107.9 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our pretax income as a percentage of consolidated revenue was 11.4% an increase of 290 basis points from 8.5% in the year-ago quarter.
Homebuilding pretax income more than doubled to $181.9 million from $90.2 million and financial services pretax income was $7.8 million compared to $17.7 million.
Net income for the first quarter increased 86% to $123.2 million or $0.36 per diluted share compared to $66.3 million or $0.20 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Mike? Our first quarter home sales revenues increased 33% to $1.6 billion on 6 188 homes closed up from $1.2 billion on 5 182 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $263 500 up 12% compared to the prior year driven by pricing power and an increased mix of larger move-up homes.
Stacey? The value of our net sales orders in the first quarter increased 14% to $1.5 billion.
Homes sold increased 4% to 5 454 homes and our average selling price increased 10% to $275 600.
The cancellation rate for the first quarter was 23% compared to 22% in the year-ago quarter.
The value of our backlog increased 20% from a year ago to $2.1 billion with an average sales price per home of $275 100 and homes in backlog increased 5% to 7 684 homes.
Our backlog conversion rate for the quarter was 75%.
We are ready for the spring selling season with a strong supply of homes available to close by March so we expect our second quarter backlog conversion rate to be around 75% which is higher than our second quarter historical conversion rate.
Bill? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the first quarter was 22.3% up 350 basis points from the year-ago period.
200 basis points of the margin increase was due to improved market conditions resulting in reduced incentives and higher selling prices in excess of cost increases.
110 basis points was due to lower relative costs for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenue and the remaining 40 basis points of the margin increase was due to lower amortized interest in property taxes.
We have invested in attractively priced land and lots over the last 2 years and we continue to see solid demand and improved pricing in many of our markets.
Based on current market conditions we expect our gross margins to continue at a strong level.
Don? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $183.4 million compared to $140.8 million in the prior-year quarter.
As a percentage of homebuilding revenues SG&amp;A improved 20 basis points to 11.2% from 11.4%.
We continue to leverage our fixed cost structure while at the same time building our sales and production capabilities where necessary.
We expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues to increase seasonally in the second quarter before trending lower in the third and fourth quarters with higher expected revenues.
The improvements in our gross profit percentage and SG&amp;A expense ratio expanded our homebuilding pretax margin to 11.1% in the current quarter an increase of 380 basis points from 7.3% in the year-ago quarter.
Mike? Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $7.8 million down from $17.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
This quarter reflected a more competitive pricing environment whereas the year-ago quarter benefited from unusually favorable market conditions which produced higher than normal gains on sale of mortgages.
88% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 45% of our mortgage company's volume this quarter down from 49% in the year-ago quarter.
Borrowers originating loans with our mortgage company during the quarter had an average FICO score of 719 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 89%.
First-time homebuyers represented 41% of the closings handled by our mortgage company this quarter compared to 50% in the year-ago quarter.
Bill? Since September our construction in progress and finished homes inventory increased by approximately $224 million.
We had 16 800 homes in inventory at the end of December of which 1 400 were models 9 300 were speculative homes and 3 400 of the specs were completed.
Our average community count for the quarter increased 13% from a year ago.
In our first fiscal quarter our investments in lots land and development totaled $467 million of which $254 million was for land development and $213 million was to purchase finished lots and land.
At December 31 2013 we owned 126 000 lots and controlled 49 000 lots through option contracts.
61 000 of our lots are finished of which 33 500 are owned and 27 500 are optioned.
We are well positioned to meet demand with our 175 000 total lots owned and controlled.
Mike? In October we acquired the homebuilding operations of Regent Homes for $34.5 million in cash.
Regent operates in Charlotte Greensboro and Winston Salem North Carolina.
At the date of acquisition we acquired approximately 240 homes in inventory 300 lots and control of an additional 600 lots through option contracts.
We also acquired a sales order backlog of 213 homes valued at $31.1 million.
Our first quarter results include 76 net sales and 136 closings in Regent's operations.
Stacey? Our unrestricted homebuilding cash totaled $801 million at quarter end.
At December 31 we had available capacity on our revolving credit facility of $656 million and no cash borrowings outstanding.
Our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash was 37.1% and our gross homebuilding leverage was 43.8%.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at December 31 was $3.3 billion.
Subsequent to quarter end we repaid the remaining $145.9 million principal amount of our 6 1/8% senior notes at maturity.
Our $500 million principal amount of convertible notes mature in May.
These notes are eligible for conversion into equity if our stock price is at or above $12.96.
If the notes convert we intend to settle them with common stock.
In January our Board of Directors approved a payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.0375 per share payable on February 18 to shareholders of record on February 7.
Don? In closing this quarter was D.R.
Horton's most profitable first quarter since 2006 with $189.7 million of pretax income.
The majority of our operating metrics continued to improve on a year-over-year basis this quarter.
The value of our sales closings and backlog increased by 14% 33% and 20% respectively.
Our pretax income increased 76%.
Our pretax income margin increased 290 basis points to 11.4%.
Our gross margin on home sales revenues increased 350 basis points.
Our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues improved 20 basis points.
Our average sales price increased 10% as we experienced pricing power in many of our markets.
We are better prepared this year than we have been for any recent spring selling season.
We have a strong finished lot position and an attractive cost basis.
And we continue to bring new communities to market which reflect extraordinarily competitive finished lot costs due to our excellent low-cost land purchases over the last several years.
January sales are accelerating into the spring and we have a supply of spec homes available to meet that demand.
We look forward to a very strong spring selling season.
We'd like to personally thank all the D.R.
Horton team let's keep the momentum from January going.
This concludes our prepared remarks and now we'll host any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from David Goldberg from UBS.
Research Division</strong> So my first question was actually on absorptions.
And if I got the numbers right it seems like absorptions were down kind of high-single digits community counts up and obviously pricing is very very strong in the backlog and in terms of order growth.
Should we see that as kind of a little bit of a change strategically that you're going to let absorptions be a little bit lighter year-over-year maybe if that's the way it falls out but you're going to hold pricing? Or is the commitment still very much -- "Let's make sure we drive absorptions through the system and through the communities?" Maybe you can just kind of talk about the balance at this point? I think where we are clearly -- and it's the same place where we were at the end of the fourth quarter -- and that is we're holding our pricing strong and firm going into the strong selling season.
And we feel like there's a limited supply of new homes on the market.
And I think as we move into the strong selling season that we'll be able to continue to maintain our pricing if not slightly increase it.
So we don't see any real reason as we said at the end of the fourth quarter David to begin discounting early.
There's no use to get -- to overreact.
We think we're in an extraordinarily strong position.
And based upon our sales in January and especially this last week we feel very good about the strong spring selling season and our ability to continue to maintain our pricing stability and raise prices.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then maybe you guys can comment on the Regent Homes deal.
If I got the numbers correctly in the dialogue in the prepared remarks they just overbooked it sounded like maybe slight premiums were up booked.
What's the deal flow look like especially kind of after the second half last year a little bit of uncertainty heading into this year? Are you finding the deal flow will pick up in terms of M&amp;A? And the willingness of maybe private builders to be flexible on pricing? Is that changing out there now? We are seeing a lot of opportunities as we have been and we're evaluating them.
There was a bit of a pause in the sales environment late last summer into the early fall.
And that perhaps did bring a few more people to coming out and trying to look at their alternatives and options.
So we continue to look at opportunities and hopefully we'll continue to be successful finding the right acquisitions.
We're not stressed to have to do any one given deal.
We're looking for the right thing that fits strategically with what we see as a company and improving our footprint and our capabilities.
Our next question is coming from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> It was interesting to note in your prepared remarks -- in your press release you specifically called out the move-up buyer as an area of strength.
I was just wondering if you could elaborate that a little bit more and also address what you're seeing in the first-time buyer? Well clearly we opened Emerald Homes probably about 6 months -- or actually longer than that 9 months ago -- and we're bringing that into fruition in a number of our divisions and that's focusing on the higher end.
And that product line has met with a lot of strong demand in the marketplace and we're expanding that into more and more divisions.
And we expect to continue to grow that to the point where it will become a significant portion of the corporation on a go-forward basis.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so but...
And in terms of the first-time buyer though I mean I don't ever want people to think that that's not a core part of our business as well.
The first-time buyer and the first-time move-up buyer have been our bread-and-butter for many many years and we're going to continue to focus on those segments as well.
But we have seen an opportunity to expand our product offerings so we're offering more things to more people in many of our markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess from a demand perspective can you discern any different trends between the segments? I think we're seeing some improvement in the move-up simply because we've added that product line.
And so it's really hard for us to gauge what the incremental demand in that is.
Overall for our business it's been an increasing portion of demand.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you -- Don it sounded to me like when you're -- your tone when you're talking about acceleration into January that that was a little bit more than you might see normally.
Is that correct? I would relate it to specifically my expectations.
And as you know I'm a more conservative person.
So I would tell you that in January and especially this last week that our sales have been better than I had expected.
And I'm excited about where we are and I feel like that we're right on the cusp of a strong selling spring selling season.
And from my own personal perspective I think the spring selling season has started a little early for our company and that's a very positive thing that I'm seeing.
Our next question today is coming from Mike Roxland from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about specific trends during the quarter? Was any 1 month particularly better? And if so what do you think drove that? Was there -- it sounded like you didn't increase your incentives at all.
So what did you see as the quarter played out? Really our sales pace through the quarter was fairly consistent.
Each month of the quarter was up on a year-over-year basis.
So we saw just very consistent sales trends and then we've seen that accelerate in the month of January.
I also think that the buyer is becoming more accustomed to the current mortgage rates.
If you recall back a couple of quarters ago there was a pretty adverse reaction to the increase in mortgage rates even though they were slight and they're still historically low by anybody's standards.
But frankly over the last 4 to 6 months the buyers have become accustomed to the mortgage rates and I think that that will be less and less a factor as we move into the spring selling season and fiscal year '14.
Research Division</strong> And you see that in terms of your traffic as well? The traffic has accelerated? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Then the last question is -- quickly.
Can you help us frame how we should be thinking about rising rates and really the impact on your business? Obviously we don't expect another spike in rates but we should have higher this year alongside obviously the Fed tapering.
At what point should we expect to see a more notable impact on your business? And should we expect you to increase your focus on move-up luxury buyers in anticipation of rates going up? Well I personally believe that rates are going up as I've said for a number of quarters although they haven't gone up significantly.
I don't believe rates are going to go up significantly.
And the way I look at it today the affordability index is still at one of the highest it's been in many many years.
I look at current opportunity for the buyers to buy a home at still reasonable prices relative to where they've been on a historical basis.
And where the mortgage rates are that it's certainly a great time to buy a home.
And I think that a lot of buyers are continuing to accept that and believe that.
And we've looked at numerous charts over the past few years and the tightest correlation in terms of new home sales isn't with interest rates it's with jobs.
And so if interest rates are rising because the economy is improving because more people are employed we view that as a strong positive boost[ph] for our business.
Our next question today is coming from Dan Oppenheim from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It sounds that you're in great shape in terms of being prepared for the demand in the spring season.
I was wondering Stacey you'd talked about the higher backlog conversion based on the specs there for the March quarter.
I was wondering how much of that in terms of what you're doing in specs is really for the first-time buyers in terms of.
Let's call it the 2/5 of the business there versus higher price points? And with the first-time buyers what are you typically seeing in terms of timing from contracts on into closing? More of our specs are probably going to be targeted toward the first-time buyer and the first time move-up buyer.
In terms of time to contract I don't think we're seeing anything that's significantly different.
We had expected as the economy recoveries and the demand recovers that we'd see more build-to-order and we actually did see our backlog conversion rates slowing down some.
We're still running above historical trends and we're still seeing more compacted contract to close than we've seen historically.
And still with the number of changes in the mortgage underwriting guidelines it's taking longer to qualify a buyer than what it has in the past.
And we're processing those as quickly and as efficiently as we possibly can but that is a slowing process to our business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in terms of the comments in terms of the better trends in January especially this past week.
Any regional color you can offer in terms of just where you saw pockets of strength? Dan I've passed that stage in my life.
I'm going to pass on that question.
This we -- we just look at the business overall and I'll leave it other people to make the commentaries on the various markets and grade the markets.
Our next question today is coming from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question just wanted to dig in a little bit more Don on your comments regarding sales trends in January and how you're thinking about the spring.
Given that sales pace is still down year-over-year obviously with some of the shorter-term comps and recent gyrations earlier this year with the mortgage environment in terms of your expectations you're obviously looking forward as you said to a strong spring selling season.
But as that comps against last year where it was also a very strong selling season are you thinking more that you'd be happy matching on a sales per community basis the results of the year-ago and that would certainly qualify as a strong season? Or are you actually looking for year-over-year improvement on a sales pace basis? Well we're constantly looking for year-over-year improvements on the sales basis but to your specific question we're always trying to increase our absorptions on a per community basis.
That's our best leverage of our SG&amp;A and that's a focus in each one of our communities.
So we are focusing on how we penetrate each market deeper but also how we increase our absorptions on a community-by-community basis.
I would add one thing on that.
If you look at our West region we actually have been raising our sales prices and really improving our operating margin that we're not focused on absorptions in that region just because of the lot supply dynamics there.
So there's always the nuance of we're going to approach our business differently based on the different market conditions everywhere.
So again it may not be a one-size-fits-all answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I appreciate that.
And then just some clarification if possible.
Don you mentioned about SG&amp;A you expect it to increase seasonally in the second quarter.
Just wanted to clarify if that was in dollars or on a percent of sales basis relative to 1Q? And also if you could give what the community count was in the first quarter sequentially in year-over-year in terms of the growth as you have in the past? On the SG&amp;A certainly as a percentage but certainly not in terms of dollars.
And if you'll notice that our Q1 SG&amp;A dollars were down.
So as a result we expect the same thing to happen to us in the second quarter.
Community count...
Community count on a sequential basis our average community count was up 2% and year-over-year was up 13%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But the SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales versus 1Q is that -- I mean on a year-over-year I'd assume you'll have leverage but sequentially would that be up as well? Or...
We think on a percentage basis we'll be up because typically our second quarter we -- is our slowest quarter for closings.
And if you take a look at our expectation on our backlog conversion 75% would produce slightly fewer units in Q2 closed than what we did in Q1.
So our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues will be slightly up.
And that's our normal seasonality in terms of SG&amp;A.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen East from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Don you've talked a little bit about SG&amp;A.
If I step back and just look at all the costs that are rolling through.
Your gross margin when I backed out last quarter's warranty benefit was up pretty significantly sequentially.
One did that surprise you? Two what are the expectations moving forward relative to this past quarter in that? And then on your SG&amp;A what's driving that? We expect that it would drop a little bit more than what it's been dropping.
Is it just your infrastructure build or are you using more dollars on brokers et cetera than expected? And sort of tied into that what you all think about cost expectations as we go through to '14? Well on our gross margin basis obviously what we've been doing is we've been holding our prices steady even though the demand if you look at our fourth quarter sales and our first quarter sales we've been able to hold it even in a slow part of the time period.
And as Stacey had said earlier clearly in the West region as well as other regions we are not discounting homes and we're maximizing our prices.
So in terms of gross margins our gross margins are basically close to their historical peak but we don't think they're -- we're at peak pricing in most of our markets.
We strongly believe one of the factors that will continue to improve our gross margins -- actually 2 factors.
One is our very competitive land positions that we're bringing to market in the form of finished lots.
And secondly if you take a look at what we think is a constrained or reduced demand or -- of inventory of homes out there for the expected demand I think that we're going to have pricing power because of those 2 factors.
But especially the limited amount of inventory that's prevalent in most of the markets today.
I'll let you guys handle the SG&amp;A.
And in terms of SG&amp;A clearly we are prepared for stronger volumes in 2014.
So we have been building infrastructure on our sales teams and our production capabilities.
And so from that standpoint we definitely are prepared for some stronger volumes.
And on a year-over-year basis we did leverage it 20 basis points.
So we are ahead of the pace that we set last year.
In Q1 we finished the year at 10.7% last year so we're on pace to do better than that.
Clearly we're always looking to leverage SG&amp;A as much as we possibly can.
And our expectation is with higher volumes later in the year that we will leverage it further.
And to digress just for a moment obviously we're expecting to close more units in fiscal year '14 than we did in fiscal year '13.
So we've added -- we've had to add the additional SG&amp;A particularly on the construction side to get our homes built and to have them available for the spring selling season.
And as the market continues to improve as we think it will throughout the third and fourth quarters we've got to have superintendents to deliver those homes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That is a very thorough answer for all of that.
That helps me a lot.
I appreciate it.
And then just the other thing that I had in your fiscal first quarter if you look at it sequentially your orders usually drop about 15% 20% versus the fourth quarter.
This time they were up about 6%.
Blending that with what you've said about the January commentary is the result in the fourth quarter more a function of the fourth quarter improving -- or the first quarter improving or the fourth quarter just being much weaker than normal? No.
I think it's a function of the first quarter improving.
Like I said that improvement has continued over into the second quarter.
And we're very happy even though we're focusing on double-digit increases in all the important metrics except for SG&amp;A.
The fact that we are up 4% in units and 14% in terms of dollars in our sales we're very pleased with that.
So we continue to feel like there's momentum building and we're pleased with those numbers.
Our next question today is coming from James McCanless with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask first on the community count growth numbers you gave.
Should we expect that plus 13 or somewhere in that range to be the growth rate for the rest of the year? James we would expect it to moderate a bit.
We do expect our community count to continue to be up on a year-over-year basis but it may not continue to be double-digit based on what we can see right now.
But really what will ultimately happen will depend on what we see in terms of the strength of the market as we get into the spring and later in the year if they have -- if the strength exceeds our current expectations we could end up adding some additional communities.
But right now we'd expect it to stay positive but perhaps not at the double-digit level.
One of the factors in the marketplace today is that the number of markets have land prices reflecting continued increase in median house prices and we're very very pleased with our current land position because we bought before the prices ran up as dramatically as they have.
And clearly that's what we're expecting in terms of complement to our gross margins.
Because we do have less expensive land than what the market is reflecting in terms of land prices today.
In each of the last 2 years we've built our community count by double-digit percentages each of the last 2 years so we've built up to a very good footprint to be prepared for this year.
So we're in a very good position and really don't feel the urgency to have to continue to increase our community count at the same pace.
And that's reflected in our first quarter land spend because basically we had -- what $45 million worth of land spend in the first quarter.
So that's less than what we've had for quite some time.
And the total land and finished lots are $213 million.
That is moderating from where we've been.
Our next question is coming from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A few questions.
First I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the spec situation.
I guess first you talked about the fact that you've got I think you said 9 300 specs and that positions you well.
A lot of times when you have a lot of specs people sometimes in previous times say that "Oh it's a bad thing." Because that means you're going to have to discount.
But in periods where the demand is very strong you really don't have to discount that much.
So I guess if you could help us understand if sales progress through the first quarter are let's say a little lighter than you anticipate would there be a point where you might feel you have to sort of accelerate the discounting on those units? And what sort of scenarios embedded in your expectation since you're going to be having more specs as a percentage of deliveries I would think than you did for some time? First of all we're in a very strong position given our specs.
Although our specs as a percentage of our total inventory are nowhere near what our peak specs were at one point in time as a percentage of our inventory our specs as a percentage of inventory increased from 53% to 56% sequentially which is normal process so that we get ready for the spring selling season.
But we don't share your concern about a weak selling season.
I think there's going to be a strong selling season.
But Kim to your specific point if there were such currently our spec gross margins are continuing to exceed our build job gross margins.
So we feel like that we're in an extraordinarily strong position given one our spec count; and two the margins built into our specs so that even if we have to discount -- and we don't think that we're going to be eroding our overall gross margins significantly.
Ordinary course of business.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
Yes when we're managing specs as ordinary course of business the ones that really will receive more discounts are those that are aged.
And that's what we really monitor very closely to manage our specs.
And our aged completed specs continue to stay at a very low level.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
That's very interesting.
And then secondly regarding your land spend you pointed out just now that it is really low.
It's actually really the lowest we've seen for a while from you guys.
Some people would take that as a sign of confidence that when you start feeling really good about the business again that you might actually start coming back into the market and spending more land -- more on land.
But from your commentary it sounds like you're pretty much planning on standing pat for at least the next few quarters -- or next couple of quarters in terms of land spend at this kind of level.
Is that a fair characterization? Or are you guys thinking that the land market is starting to look more interesting here? Well it's always interesting.
Has been for 30-some odd years but I'd say that we're -- the key in the land side is to be proactive earlier in the market just like we do on the acquisition side.
So I would say to you the wonderful thing about where we are today is we were proactive.
We have some great subdivisions and masterplan communities that we're bringing in at lower than current prices which gives us that pricing power.
We're proactive in the market.
We're always taking a look at opportunities.
And I wouldn't describe our land acquisition policy as on the back burner.
We're always out there aggressively looking for quality deals that we can make our return on.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
And then lastly the FHA changes the loan lumps [ph] coming down and whatnot.
And I was just in Florida last week.
It was definitely a topic of conversation but people haven't really been seeing the effect yet.
With your commentary about the last week of January -- or the most recent week of January it would sound like it's not really having much of a bite on your ability to transact.
Can you just sort of comment on what you think the loan limit impact is going to be on your business? It's probably a smaller impact for us now than it would've been a few years ago because we've already seen the mix of the mortgages that we're writing through our mortgage company come down significantly in the FHA category.
I think part of that has been intentional as they've raised the down payment for the last 3 years and then increased the insurance cost both on the upfront and the monthly premium.
So the cost of an FHA loan compared to an initial loan is getting to be in the same ballpark.
So if people had the 5% they're probably going to choose to put the 5% down.
So I'm sure that there will be some places that are impacted some buyers that are impacted but there are good alternatives for them with the conventional financing that's available as well.
Our next question today is coming from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Hansen on for Nishu.
Just kind of noticing over the past few quarters your total land supply on an absolute basis and on a year supply basis has come down pretty significantly.
So I just wanted to see if you could comment on what you think your kind of optimal land supply is here going forward? Well currently we're sitting on approximately a 2.5-year supply of finished lots both owned and option.
And our total lot supply both developed -- and our finished and unfinished is right at 5 years.
So my definition of a conservative but more than adequate land supply is a 5-year supply.
And we're right on that number right now.
And 2.5-year supply of finished lots that gives us more than enough lots to meet the demand and meet the construction cycles and so forth on the land development side.
So we think we're well positioned.
Those are good numbers 2.5 and 5.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of given the comments you've made on land prices and a little bit of a slowdown in land spend I guess you're kind of right around where you need to be in terms of total land.
But does this mean that acquisitions may be a better way to pick up land in the future given your other comments? Well not to create a higher hurdle for Mike sitting over here to my left.
But I guess it all depends upon the premium that he has to pay for lot positions.
Absolutely.
It's one strategy to acquire a greater land position but it's also -- acquisitions give you sometimes a functional capability you didn't have before or gets you quicker to achieving efficiency in a given functional capability beyond just acquiring land or lots.
Always looking at land and lot option positions.
And while the spend did come down in the first quarter as looking at a discrete 3-month window those -- that's kind of a short window to look at.
And it was very -- it was much higher in the prior quarter a little bit lower in the quarter before that.
So it is going to fall up and down as we see the opportunities and when various land transactions close.
It's hard to look at any one 3-month period and extrapolate to that.
Plus our development spending has increased as we're bringing more of those land purchases from last fiscal year into production this year.
The key in the land acquisition business is to be able to be opportunistic based upon your inventory of land and loss supply for your expected housing production.
And we are right in the right place right now in terms of where we bought and when we bought.
And we're not -- we don't have to be desperate to go out and replace lots.
We see land transactions taking place in several of the markets that I've been in recently where it doesn't make any sense to us -- the prices that some of our competitors are paying for land prices.
So again we feel like that that 2.5 and 5-year supply at the prices we have and we can replace those as we see fit and as demand dictates but we don't have to overreact on the land purchase side.
Our next question today is coming from Ken Zener from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess Don the question of seasonality as we kind of look at the homebuilders right now usually since 1Q decelerates from 4Q it's not abnormal for 2Q to go up from 1Q.
Our estimate is you guys usually go up around 50% sequentially.
Is that somewhat accurate? Is that a reasonable benchmark for our and perhaps your expectations if the season is doing well or not? Per absorptions per community? I would answer that question yes really.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now as we're seeing differences by region so the southeast in terms of backlog it had come down versus other places like -- southwest excuse me have come down versus the east.
Could you just perhaps comment if these absorptions are different by the regions? Or why we're seeing such swings in those particular markets? I think in particular if you look at the southwest basically our ASPs out there are flat.
And essentially the southwest for us is Phoenix and New Mexico -- or Arizona and New Mexico.
So as a result I just came out of Phoenix and Tucson.
And if you look at Phoenix specifically this -- at this point in the year they have about 25 000 or 26 000 existing homes on the market compared to 16 000 last year so that's a lot of competition for all sellers.
Secondly that the ASPs in calendar year '13 in Phoenix increased 25% and that's not expected to happen in fiscal year or calendar year '14.
But as a result I think that pricing ran up dramatically and quickly in Phoenix and has plateaued.
And I think that it will stay flat to slightly decreased in Phoenix and maybe to a certain extent in Tucson.
But that's the wonderful thing about where DR Horton is and in our footprint because we're well diversified.
And we want to be a bigger builder in Phoenix but right now is not the right time given where the demand and the pricing point is.
It's a good market for us but it's not a great market.
And it's going to be weaker I think in '14 than what it is -- was in '13.
Research Division</strong> So you're asserting rising existing inventory is hurting the new supply demand? I think if you're a seller in the marketplace and you have 26 000 homes on the market versus 16 000 homes I think that notwithstanding the fact there's a percentage of the buyer out there who is a new homebuyer and not an existing homebuyer that nevertheless that additional inventory in the marketplace creates a more competitive environment.
Research Division</strong> And do you see pressure from what had been investor-related properties coming back to the market? Or are they in just different locales? I think it's difficult to ascertain what the level of investor ownership is in each one of these markets.
And I do believe that the investors are still holding.
But as the ASPs flatten year-over-year I think that'll create more opportunities for those -- or create more reason for those owners to bring those units to market.
So you could face more increased competition especially in some of the Sunbelt cities like Phoenix and Las Vegas and so forth where there has been a huge investor participation.
I think there's a possibility those units will start coming back to market and compete with all sellers.
Our next question today is coming from Joel Locker from FBN Securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just was curious on your tax rate.
It was around 35%.
What do you expect going forward in the rest of '14 and '15? For the remainder of '14 we would expect to be between 35% and 36% this year.
The primary difference this year is that we're going to able -- we expect to be able to fully utilize the domestic production activities deduction which has been limited for the last few years as we've been utilizing our NOL carryforward.
We've now fully utilized our federal NOL carryforward so now we'll get that deduction which helps to offset our overall tax rate.
So our expectation's between 35% and 36%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what about 2015 is that going to be any different? Based on what we can see right now I wouldn't guide to anything really different than that.
There could be changes between now and then.
But as of right now I wouldn't see any significant difference from '14.
Our next question is coming from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Your average order price was up 10% year-over-year which is fantastic but it was sequentially flat.
And I wanted to get a view with the opening ASP for orders of 275 000 what should we expect for modeling purposes? And how should we think about it moving forward through the rest of the year? In terms of -- we've seen very good average selling price increases throughout '13.
We have stated previously that we -- while we do expect to see some further pricing power into '14 depending on the strength of the market we don't expect the prices to continue to increase at the same rate.
So as we sit here today seeing early results that points towards a strong spring we would expect to continue to see some further pricing increases over our current levels but perhaps not the same pace we saw last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would mid-single digit for the full year be a good starting point for thinking about it? If you look at the course of history if you have sales price increases in the mid-single digits that's a very solid year so we would certainly take that.
We'd expect more but accept that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And great job on gross margin huge move.
It also sounds like it's sustainable which is a great set up for 2014.
Can you just give us a framework for thinking about operating margin on a net basis how you see that moving through the year? Obviously you have a tailwind with the gross margins but what's the leverage look like on SG&amp;A? And how much more upside should we be thinking this year in a good setup to the spring selling season volumes good pricing is strong so far? Should we be expecting big things out of operating margin performance? Well certainly.
As you well know the whole year will be -- will really be determined by how strong the spring selling season is.
So there certainly is some uncertainty about where it can go.
But where we stand today with where our backlog margins are with what we see in our communities across our operation we feel good about our current margin levels.
We feel like we should able to sustain them in the current range.
And we certainly expect to continue to be able to leverage SG&amp;A.
We've got 20 basis points in the first quarter.
We would expect to continue to get further leverage through the year and improve on our previous years' operating margin.
Past that it's really going to depend on the strength that we see in the marketplace as we get into the spring.
A lot of that is a function of the fact that we've been steadfast and holding on to our margins though through the fourth quarter of fiscal year '13 and clearly the first quarter.
And I will say with the demand that we're experiencing in the first several weeks of January I feel like with the limited inventory that's prevalent in the marketplace today that we should be in a pricing power position -- strong pricing power position in most of our markets on a go-forward basis for fiscal year '14.
LLC Research Division</strong> You guys have commented traditionally gross margin's been between 20% and 22%.
You obviously beat that this quarter.
Is there any chance we're seeing a shift towards a higher gross margin range above that 20% to 22% maybe like 21% to 23%? It depends upon a couple of factors.
If we continue to do a good job of controlling our cost -- our stick-and-brick cost as we have been doing relative to our sales prices as well as as I continue to say everything that I read everything that I see in the marketplaces.
There's a limited supply of new homes on the marketplace.
If the demand is as good as we think it's going to be in fiscal year '14 spring selling season we will have an opportunity to expand those margins.
Our next question today is coming from Will Randow from Citi.
Research Division</strong> In regards to your financing business with the implementation of the Ability to Pay rule just about 20 days ago can you talk about any added cost that we should expect and how that may impact margins? And how have you seen that impact closings of those mortgages as well? So far we've not seen any impact on the closing of the mortgages.
We have added some level of overhead for additional staffing because we have implemented additional review processes at different points during the originating process to make sure that we are complying with the new regulation.
So the customer's ending up with essentially the same mortgage product and we've added a few more costs to deliver that product.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for that Stacy.
And then just a follow-up to an earlier question.
Can you talk about the top 5 categories where you're seeing incremental pressure on input costs? Sounds like land might be one of them but might be stabilizing.
Well first of all it's not impacting our input cost simply because we are not having to buy land at those higher prices today.
Clearly we see a little bit of increase -- potential increase on the drywall side.
And I don't know how much that's going to be.
But we think it's going to be a low total dollar amount per home.
Lumber prices right now have been working in our favor clearly.
The one thing that is pretty constant in our business is that the lumber companies know that we have a strong spring selling season; and typically lumber prices will increase in the spring selling season as the demand increases.
So I would anticipate lumber will do the same thing that it has historically done for some-30 on years I've been in the business.
They'll continue to raise prices in the spring.
Other than that those are my reflections.
I don't know if you guys have any additional thoughts.
I'd just add labor to the bucket in selected markets just based on the construction level that we're seeing there and the availability of labor amongst the various trades but that's not a consistent across the nation increase.
But just as a point of order if you take a look at our year-over-year stick-and-brick cost per square foot they were up less than what our year-over-year increase in our revenue per square foot is.
So we're continuing to be able to raise prices at a faster pace than what we are experiencing cost increases.
Our next question today is coming from Alex Barron from Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> Strong results.
Don I wanted to just get a little bit better understanding of your enthusiasm for the spring selling season because last year spring selling season was pretty darn strong mortgages were 3.5% or lower prices were much lower than they are today.
So I guess I'm just trying to understand do you think we're going to be able to see higher sales than we did a year ago? Or can you help me out with that? We personally are counting on higher sales this year than a year ago.
A couple of factors that I think are impacting that.
One is that even though not overly excited about the growth in the economy the one -- national economy the one thing that is accurate is that there seems to be a slowing improvement in the overall economy and that's good for our business.
I think that translates into increased jobs especially permanent jobs or full-time jobs that will be additive to our business.
Also as I've mentioned earlier there's been an adaptation to the current mortgage rates by the buyer over the last 4 or 5 years.
And I think that's going to be -- or 4 or 5 months I should say.
And I think that's a positive to our business.
And I also believe that when buyers are going into communities and looking for new homes and there's not an excess inventory of new homes I think that's a positive factor.
One of the most negative things about a selling environment is if there's excess inventory in the subdivision or in the market in particular because then there's very little urgency on the part of the buyer.
So I think the supply side is definitely helping the demand side if no other reason from a psychological point of view is that there's not a lot of excess inventory out there.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
The other thing that I was trying to I guess understand better was it seems like obviously your margins were better and I think you guys noted that it was because incentives were lower than a year ago.
But I would have thought it's the other way around because it seems like the markets slowed down at the end of 2013 and many builders were increasing incentives it seems versus the previous years.
So I thought margins would have been under a little bit of pressure.
But it seemed like in your case that wasn't the case.
So how is it that you think incentives were lower this year than last year? I think largely as we said Alex from our fiscal year end '13 conference call is that we were not going to overreact.
We looked at the inventory levels across the country and our markets and we didn't see any excess inventory out there.
And as a result we -- and then especially places like the west in particular all the way from Seattle to Portland and northern California to Southern California there's just not a lot of inventory out there both in terms of finished lots nor finished homes.
And we decided that we would not overreact and that we would maximize our margins in that area.
And if you take a look at the west in particular our average sales price in the west was up 21% and our operating margins increased from 9% to 15%.
So I feel like that we called it perfectly out there and we are in a strong position like I said in almost all of our markets and we're going to let the market come to us.
LLC</strong> Okay that's great.
And if I could ask one for Bill.
Bill can you help me on the interest amortized of cost of goods sold versus interest incurred? Are those going to reverse towards each other at some point later this year or not until next year you think? Yes I would expect that gap to narrow over the next year as we began capitalizing all of our interest costs beginning in Q3 of last year once our active inventory exceeded our debt.
The amount of inventory and interest in inventory has started to rise a bit so I would expect that gap between interest incurred and amortized cost of sales to narrow a bit over time.
Our next question is coming from Jim Krapfel from MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> What were the selling prices and cost per square foot in your closings and new orders? For closings our revenue per square foot was $115 for the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> How much is that up on a year-over-year basis? On a year-over-year basis that was up...
8.4%.
8.4%.
Research Division</strong> 8.4%.
And then the cost per square foot? It was up about 8.2%.
And that's just stick and brick.
That's variable construction cost yes.
Yes that's stick and brick sorry.
Right yes.
And we do that on homes closed because on homes sold it's not final final.
Closings we can actually measure that and know that's a final number.
So as we said earlier we're continuing to raise our prices faster than our costs are increasing.
Research Division</strong> When do the higher underwritten land deals really starts to flow through the P&amp;L? We anticipate third and fourth quarters of this fiscal year and then throughout fiscal year '15.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And final question how much would you estimate you're getting in margin benefit just from previously impaired land? That's very little.
That's been declining every quarter for the last 3 years so it's pretty minimal now.
The majority of our closings are on more recent land.
Right yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One last question to throw in there.
What's the latest activity with small private builders? Are you seeing them become a greater participant in the land market? Well I think the land market for most of the small builders is still a difficult proposition simply because of the fact that banks are not lending and a lot of those smaller builders are still reliant upon forming LLCs and finding private investors to finance it for them.
And obviously those are at higher interest rates than what you could get from a commercial bank except that the commercial banks are not lending.
So as a result we still believe the public builder has a very advantageous opportunity both on the land side as well as the cost side and the houses.
The smaller builders are not that significant a competitive environment for us simply because of the fact -- the lack of financing.
Research Division</strong> And you expect that to improve for them going forward in the next year or two? Oh at some point in time I presume the banks will begin lending but I don't see that imminent on the marketplace.
And one of the things that Mike is seeing on the acquisition side are smaller and medium-sized builders who are having difficulty acquiring financing and as a result are soliciting or interested in I guess liquidating their companies -- selling their companies.
It's very competitive on the financing side out there for small people.
Our final question today is coming from Buck Horne from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to the spec inventory that you guys have.
And just -- could you help me characterize what kind of specs you're building at this point whether your mix of specs is more entry-level focused or more of the move-up product that's going out the door? And to what extent your view of mortgage availability this year is influencing the product mix of specs that you're building right now? Our specs are across all subdivision all product lines and all price lines.
Clearly from a volume perspective we're going to have more of them on the entry-level and lesser in the move-up buyer and even lesser into the second and third time buyer on our annual[ph] side.
But clearly we're as Stacy said earlier the heart and the core of D.R.
Horton is still that first-time and to the lesser extent second-time homebuyer but that's the vast majority of our focus.
And that's where our specs are.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And separate topic.
Just going to the idea of investors in the markets.
Have you been approached by any single-family rental operators that are out there some of the larger guys or even smaller guys that may want to buy new homes and build them for rent purposes? Is that something you guys would consider doing? We have not been approached to that on a large-scale.
That happens from time to time.
We're in the business of building selling and closing single-family homes to individual homebuyers.
We have avoided selling blocks of homes to investors.
That's not our business and that's not a business that we want to be in.
That does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Tomnitz for any closing or further comments.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
D.R.
and I would like to thank all of our D.R.
Horton employees.
We've done a phenomenal job over the last 3 or 4 years.
I can't say enough kudos to you.
We continue to outperform our competitors.
I've been here for 30 years.
We've never been better positioned than we are today for the spring selling season in terms of opportunistic land purchases that we made finished lot costs that we have in our land development deals as well as our inventory that's in the field.
All of our salespeople are totally in a position of power because you're well inventoried with specs in your communities.
And we ask you to do the same thing that we've always asked you to do and that you've done: sell our specs and close them.
And let's move onto a fantastic year.
We're very optimistic about fiscal year '14.
It's the culmination of a lot of hard work over the last 4 or 5 years.
And it's time to slam dunk it.
Thank you very much.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
D.R.
Horton would like to thank you for participating today.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Don Tomnitz President and CEO D.R.
Horton.
Mr.
Tomnitz you may begin.
Thank you Kevin and good morning.
Joining me this morning are David Auld Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mike Murray Senior Vice President of Business Development; and Jessica Hansen Vice President of Communications.
Before we get started Jessica? Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? Thank you Jessica.
The spring selling season is well underway.
Our net sales orders in the March quarter were up 57% sequentially in the December quarter and at 9% from the second quarter of last year.
Our average sales price increased by 10% year-over-year to $278 900 driving a 20% increase in the value of our net sales.
Our solid sales performance resulted in an 18% increase in our backlog value compared to the prior year quarter putting us in a strong position for increased revenue and profitability in the second half of fiscal 2014.
Our team of operators across the country also delivered outstanding profitability this quarter with $201.9 million of pretax income on $1.7 billion of revenues resulting in a pretax operating margin of 11.6%.
Housing market conditions remained favorable and continue to improve in a manner consistent with our long-stated expectations for the housing recovery.
As expected we are seeing the pace and the strength of the recovery vary significantly across our local operating markets mostly tied to improvement in each markets economy is measured by growth in jobs household incomes household formations and increases in consumer confidence.
D.R.
Horton is well-known for operating homes for the first-time and first-time move-up buyer with 56% of our homes closing at an average sales price of $250 000 or less this quarter.
We are experiencing solid demand and profitability in the heart of our business in our D.R.
Horton communities.
Our high-end Emerald brand continues to grow and is currently being offered in 27 markets across 10 states.
This growth is evident as 6% of our homes closed this quarter were priced higher than $500 000 accounting for 16% of our home sales revenue up from 3% on homes closed and 9% on revenues in the same quarter the prior year.
We believe that the true entry-level buyer is underserved in the current market especially after the significant increases in home prices in the last 2 years.
Therefore we recently introduced a new brand Express Homes targeted at the true entry-level buyer that is focused first and foremost on affordability.
Our rollout of Express is in the very early stages just getting off the ground in 13 markets and 4 states.
The price points of an Express Home will vary from market to market but will consistently focus on providing an affordable entry-level home.
We look forward to growing all 3 of our brands and product offerings to gain market share across all price points as the recovery continues.
We are positioned to grow revenues at a double-digit pace with strong operating margins for generating increasing returns.
Bill? Our consolidated pretax income increased 42% to $201.9 million in the second quarter from $142.1 million in the year-ago quarter.
Our pretax income as a percentage of consolidated revenue was 11.6% an increase of 170 basis points from 9.9% in the year-ago quarter.
Homebuilding pretax income increased 50% to $191.7 million from $127.4 million and financial services pretax income was $10.2 million compared to $14.7 million.
Net income for the second quarter increased 18% to $131 million or $0.38 per diluted share compared to $111 million or $0.32 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Mike? Our second quarter home sales revenues increased 23% to $1.7 billion on 6 194 homes closed up from $1.4 billion on 5 643 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $271 200 up 12% compared to the prior year driven by pricing power and an increased mix of larger move-up homes.
David? The value of our net sales orders in the second quarter increased 20% from the year-ago quarter to $2.4 billion.
Homes closed -- homes sold increased 9% to 8 569 homes on an 11% increase in active selling communities.
Our average sales price increased 10% to $278 900.
The cancellation rate for the second quarter was 19% consistent with the year-ago quarter.
The value of our backlog increased 18% from a year ago to $2.8 billion with an average sales price per home of $280 700.
And homes in backlog increased 5% to 10 059 homes.
Our backlog conversion rate for the quarter exceeded our expectations at 81%.
We expect our third quarter backlog conversion rate to be around 75% consistent with our long-term average rate.
Bill? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the second quarter was 22.5% up 210 basis points from the year-ago quarter.
160 basis points of the margin increase was due to improved market conditions resulting in higher selling prices in excess of cost increases; 30 basis points was due to lower amortize interest in property taxes as a percentage of home sales revenue; and the remaining 20 basis points was due to lower relative cost for warranty and construction defect claims.
Sequentially our gross margin improved 20 basis points from the first quarter primarily due to lower relative costs for warranty and construction defect claims with little impact from market conditions.
We expect that further improvements from this quarter's 22.5% in gross margin will be challenging.
As long as market conditions remain stable we expect to maintain strong gross margins generally in the range of our last 4 quarters with quarterly fluctuations due to product and geographic mix.
We are positioned to grow revenues at a double-digit pace with strong operating margins while generating increasing returns.
We expect revenue growth to be a stronger driver of our earnings growth going forward rather than margin expansion.
David? Ongoing SG&amp;A for the quarter was $187 900 000 or $187.9 million compared to $155.1 million in the prior year quarter.
As a percentage of homebuilding revenue SG&amp;A improved 10 basis points to 11.1% from 11.2%.
While we continue to build our sales and production capabilities where necessary we expect to see modest improvement in our annual SG&amp;A percentage as we continue to work to our target of 10%.
For our third and fourth quarters this year we expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues to decrease sequentially on higher expected revenues.
The improvement in our gross profit and SG&amp;A percentages expanded our homebuilding pretax margin to 11.3% in the current quarter an increase of 210 basis points from 9.2% in the year-ago quarter.
Jessica? Financial services pretax income for the quarter was $10.2 million compared to $14.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
This quarter continued to reflect the more competitive pricing environment whereas the year-ago quarter benefited from unusually favorable market conditions which produced higher-than-normal gains on sale of mortgages.
90% of our mortgage companies loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 43% of our mortgage companies volume this quarter down from 49% in the year-ago quarter.
Borrowers originating loans with our mortgage company during the quarter had an average FICO score of 716 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 89%.
First-time homebuyers represented 42% of the closings handled by mortgage company this quarter compared to 50% in the year-ago quarter.
Mike? Our construction in progress and finished homes inventory increased by approximately $142 million since December.
We had 17 600 homes in inventory at the end of March of which 1 400 were models 8 600 were speculative homes and 3 000 of the specs were completed.
In our second fiscal quarter our investments in lots land and development totaled $560 million of which $376 million was to purchase finished lots and land and $184 million was for land development.
At March 31 2014 we owned 125 000 lots and controlled another 47 000 lots through option contracts.
60 000 of our lots are finished of which 33 000 are owned and 27 000 are optioned.
We are well-positioned to meet demand with our 172 000 total lots owned and controlled.
Bill? Our unrestricted homebuilding cash totaled $930.8 million at quarter end.
At March 31 we had available capacity on our revolving credit facility of $654.5 million and no cash borrowings outstanding.
Our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash was 38.4% and our gross homebuilding leverage was 45.5%.
The balance of our public notes outstanding in March 31 was $3.6 billion.
Our $500 million principal amount of convertible notes mature on May 15.
Holders of these notes may convert all or any portion of their notes at their option at any time prior to the close of business on May 13.
For the notes they convert we intend to settle them with common stock.
Don? In closing this quarter our pretax income increased 42% to $201.9 million.
The majority of our operating metrics continue to improve on a year-over-year basis this quarter highlighted by the value of our sales closings and backlog increased by 20% 23% and 18% respectively.
Our net sales orders increased 57% sequentially on a 3% increase in average active selling communities.
And our pretax operating margin increased 170 basis points to 11.6%.
We are well-positioned to improve our profit and return metrics with our broad geographic footprint diversified product offerings across our 3 brands an attractive finished lot position and a solid balance sheet.
We continue to focus on our core D.R.
Horton brand as well as striving to become the leading luxury builder with our Emerald brand.
We believe the next leg of this recovery will be driven by the true entry-level buyer and we're prepared to capture that demand with our recently introduced Express brand.
We like to personally thank all of our D.R.
Horton team for another great quarter.
D.R.
and I request that you keep up with the good work and finish off the spring selling season strong.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We'll now host any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from David Goldberg of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask it feels like in addition to the increased absorption pace the better tone it feels like you guys are differentiating your performance a little bit from some of your peers.
And I was wondering if you could talk about do you think that sales effort is it product is it geography is it a little bit of both? Maybe how you rank order what you think is causing some differentiation in terms of performance? I think it's a combination of all.
But I think if you remember we had and we still have the broadest geographic footprint on the industry.
And during the downturn we kept our footprint we consolidated our divisions within our footprint in anticipation of a housing recovery and we're now prepared to continue to expand those markets where we kept our footprint.
So clearly we're not dependent on any one market and there are weak markets across the country so we're able to supplement those weak markets with stronger markets in our footprint.
So clearly I think our geographic footprint is a key to our great performance.
And as you know David we're always very focused on our execution and our operation of the business controlling our cost and we're always focused on sales.
So I think that's just been a hallmark a consistent aspect of our approach to the business.
Research Division</strong> Definitely.
And then I just had a follow-up question on the Express brand and the rollout is that going to be kind of done on a market-by-market basis because it feels like the entry-level coming back I agree that it's the next leg of the recovery but it's been a little bit sporadic in terms of where we seen it.
Do you see it kind of rolling out nationally or do you see it kind of a market-by-market basis kind of a slow rollout? Well as you know at Horton we like to dip our toe in the water before we jump completely in.
So clearly we're going to roll out the Express brand on a market-by-market basis focusing perhaps more on the affordable markets than the higher end markets.
And we will roll it out on a national basis but we're going to focus first and foremost on where we feel like we have the best chance of affordability.
Our next question is coming from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Previously you talked a bit about having some plans put in place in case the spring didn't materialize the way you wanted it to.
I was wondering if you could just talk about the quarter and what kind of parts of those plans you actually implemented if any and just kind of how the quarter progressed relative to your expectations when you last spoke to us? Well our sales improved on a month-to-month basis sequentially each month in the quarter.
And as we mentioned in the last quarter's conference call we expected to meet -- that there was challenge in demand in any of the markets.
We indicated that we are more than well-prepared with our low-cost basis and our low construction cost to be able to increase incentives as necessary.
We did increase incentives some within second quarter primarily toward the end of the quarter but not significantly.
And we'll continue to do that because one thing that we're focused on is inventory turn hitting our absorptions in each one of our respective markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then moving to your specs previously I think there has been discussion about specs getting higher margins than dirt sales.
I was wondering if that was still the case.
And if -- how your -- back to David's questions about potential differentiation how you thought your differentiated spec strategy relative to some peers might have been impacting your quarter? Yes our spec strategy is still clearly at a very important part of our business.
We're getting closer back to a more normal environment as pricing power is still there in some markets but it's not across the board as much as it was.
And so today our spec margins are more in line with our dirt margins.
And over time we would expect that our build jobs will have slightly higher margins than our specs.
And really we've managed our specs very very well over the years as you know.
We look at [ph] this account for over 60% of our sales.
And they have one thing in common they like to put a buyer on almost quickly as possible and also collect the commission quickly as possible.
So we're well-prepared to meet that realtor support and demand that we have across the country.
But typically if you look at our spec percentage it went down from 55% to 49% our completed specs declined and our sales -- our specs greater than 6 months were pretty much stable so we're in a very strong position spec-wise.
Our next question is coming from Mike Roxland from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> First question I had was on the incentives.
And Don I think you mentioned that you increased incentives and that was more oriented towards I guess the back half of your fiscal second quarter.
So wanted to get a sense of how much incentive has increased and what your approach is with respect to incentives on a go-forward basis? Yes Mike we've taken a very targeted approach to incentives.
That's community by community.
Each community has their sales absorption plans and they make sure that they are meeting the market meeting the competition to hit those plans so they need to add some incentives they do.
In general we saw a very slight increase in our incentives over the quarter but we really expected to see that.
Some markets increased incentives some did not.
We're still seeing many markets where we're increasing prices and incentives are still very low.
So it really is in line with our overall assessment of the market is that the market is improving very differently from market to market.
In some markets will see incentives and some we will not.
Research Division</strong> Just suffice to say it was at the margin in terms of the amount of incentives that you increased in aggregate? For the quarter it was a slight increase on the margin.
And of course that's coming off a very low incentive levels a year ago abnormally low incentive levels a year ago.
So really we just view that we're coming back to a more normal level where community-by-community basis some having incentives some do not.
And taken into consideration the increase in ASPs and the pricing power we've had over last couple of years I think it's only natural that incentives begin to kick in some.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Appreciate that.
And then my last question is can you just provide some color around further operating leverage and the additional opportunities you have to drive that lower? Is that more of a function at this point of the double-digit increase in revenue that you're expecting? Or are there actually additional cost takeouts that you could pursue that would help drive that -- drive further operating leverage? So the primary driver would be increased volumes.
As you well know our long-term target on SG&amp;A is 10%.
We're working our way there but we're not there yet.
But as volumes increase we would expect to get there.
There's always places that we can continue to get more efficient throughout our company we continue to focus on that.
But we would believe that the larger driver of those efficiencies going forward would be volume increases.
Our next question today is coming from Kenneth Zener from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> As you guys are bringing this new product line on for first-time buyer other builders have talked about their new product targeting this -- the new buyer being a lower margin but higher-turning product.
Do you think it's kind of set to come out at the margins that gross margins that you're now delivering? We think that obviously on that first-time mover -- first-time buyer market with margins are more challenging.
We're budgeting as close as we can to our current margins but probably slightly lower.
But don't forget we're planning on turning that product line as much as 3 times per year.
So basically our return on that segment of the business will be just as good if not better than our normal business.
In fact it will be better.
Yes we will expect much higher absorptions in those communities and so certainly in a high much higher absorption you can take a slightly higher margin and you'll see as good or better returns in entry level community.
Slightly lower margin.
Slightly normal on returns.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I got that ratio.
Now in terms...
We like to have a higher margin and higher turn but that would be a beautiful thing.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So for your orders sequentially you kind of -- you came in a little bit above I think your long-term seasonal rate of just a little above 50% kind of flattens out generally in the third quarter.
Is that what you're seeing now is one question.
And second you referred to community count being up 3% sequentially.
Could you refer to it year-over-year please? Our community count was up about 11% year-over-year and I think we'd expect to see that community count continue to grow year-over-year albeit at a slower pace than 11% probably single digits -- high single digits for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> And the seasonality of orders you're seeing so far? Yes.
So in terms of what we're seeing today we're only 3 weeks into April so we really don't have a whole lot to share but we would expect our strongest sales quarters to be our fiscal second and third quarters of the year.
So with our positioning we would expect to have a strong Q3.
Especially after having overcome the tough comp that we had in the second quarter.
Our next question is coming from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> First question I wanted to ask about Emerald and Express and how to think about those longer-term in the context of your strategy.
This recovery in downturn has been choppy.
First there was first-time buyer then it's been entry-level -- I'm sorry then it's been the move-up buyer.
So should we think about Emerald and Express as kind of medium-term plays to -- that you might put more capital into depending on where we are in the cycle or is this a longer-term shift to a more multi-brand strategy? So longer-term shift to a multi-brand strategy.
We believe from our perspective that we have underserved that luxury buyer and that was the reason we started focusing on the Emerald brand.
It also helps us gain entry to some of the master-plan communities where there are no or very few custom builders because of a lack of financing for those.
And so we're able to backfill the space left by them because banks are still not lending to that small custom builder and provides us a great entry with a great capital position and a great balance sheet to become a major player on that higher end market especially in master-plan communities.
So we're focused on truly becoming the leading luxury builder with that brand over the next 3 to 4 years.
On the Express side there's no question that with the price increases that we've experienced in our industry over the last couple or 3 years with all the pricing power we have had we've really depleted that pool of affordable buyers.
And so as a result by going down into the price range where we think we'll be in a typical market somewhere between 120 and 150 on the price point but that truly is going to create for us a whole new pool of affordable buyers that let us expand our footprint and our revenues.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That makes a lot of sense at the lower end of the market especially that comes back.
But in a rising interest rate environment affordability will be stretched and the amount that a dollar of mortgage payment buys will be stretched across all price segments.
So are -- will there be or are you planning to or are you in the stages of implementing reactions to add across your D.R.
Horton brand as well or is that something more you're going to think about as interest rates rise? Clearly as interest rates rise I think that the Express brand is even going to put us in a stronger position because as buyers have more difficulty qualifying just as we saw 6 9 months ago as the 30-year mortgage moved up then we had higher cancellation rate during that time period and was primarily because of the fact that lack of affordability.
So key I think to expanding our business on a go-forward basis in a rising interest rate environment is to be able to offer a lower-priced but competitive well-built house.
Our next question today is coming from Dan Oppenheim of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you can talk a bit about Express in terms of just how different it's going to be from what you're doing currently in some markets.
And then if we look at Mobile and some other places you're currently building at that price point is it going to be -- so is some of it based on the success you've had there in terms of selling homes at that price point? Is it going to be continuing in terms of the -- just what something along those lines? How should we think about it overall in terms of just doing something different in terms of construction at a lower price point and such? Certainly on the express side we believe we're going to be able to turn that inventory a lot faster because the cycle time on the construction side of the business is going to be significantly less and we are focusing on that -- those cycle times on Express but also across the other price points.
But if you take a look at Express in general we are going to be offering essentially a product that's not going to require options not going to require upgrades.
It's going to be basically a turn-key operation.
When those people show up they basically are going to be able to not have to go to the design center and purchase a lot of upgrades and options because they have difficulty qualifying so basically it's going to be pretty much a turn-key product.
Research Division</strong> Great okay.
Sounds like it will definitely meet a segment market that will work well there.
And the second question wondering you talked about slight increase incentives at the end of the quarter and how have you seen that in terms of as it's gone into April and how are you thinking about the environment here? We're continuing to do what we would do on a day-to-day basis which is meet the market on a community-by-community basis and do what we need to do to hit our targeted absorption.
Dan we're in an extraordinarily strong position because as we've talked about on other conference calls we've accumulated a very attractive land and lot position over the last couple of years.
We're glad we're not on the market having to be aggressive on the land side today because we've got built in gross margin in our existing land supply.
So as a result we assigned certain absorption level for each community and we're going to move forward with our low cost structure our land side and our construction side in order to meet our target.
Our next question today is coming from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question was on the Express brands and I think it's a great idea and I do believe that the first-time buyer is definitely -- there are different reasons why I believe that buyer hasn't come back to the market.
Certainly affordability is at the top of the list but I also think there is a lack of product out there as well so I think it's a great idea.
On that rollout you said you typically kind of initially dip your toe in the water and go from there.
Is -- how should we think about that in terms of timing? I mean would 2014 be more of kind of the initial stages and would we expect to see a more aggressive rollout in '15 if the expectations are met? And also from the land side you mentioned a faster turn business.
Is that going to be all kind of finished lot option take downs are there going to be any land banking perhaps? Or would any of this be developed through your own development machine? Well clearly on the Express side we have our targets.
And 2015 it will be a much greater growth rate than what it is in 2014.
I can tell you that D.R.
has given us guidance in terms of where he wants to be with Express in 2015 and our goal is to hit this aggressive targets.
On the land side we're focusing right now on finished lot deals.
And in terms of having to develop land for Express we may very well have to do that.
But I will remind you of our strict underlying guidelines and we're adhering to those as we move forward even into Express.
And that is our goal is when we buy piece of land that we get our initial land expense back within 24 months and Express will adhere to those guidelines.
Research Division</strong> Great.
On the gross margins appreciate the color there and I believe what was stated earlier on the call was that further improvement will be more difficult and that you'd expect gross margins to be in the range in the last 4 quarters or so.
That would seem to imply that the number that you did in this most recent quarter being at the high end of that range are you kind of saying in a way that there's a little bit of expectations for the back half of the year to be lower than the first half of the year albeit modestly? I don't -- go ahead.
No no we're not really saying that we expect margins to go down.
What we're saying is we expect any further significant increases to be challenging.
We really don't expect significant increases or really any significant decreases in margins but we feel like they'll operate in a range similar to where we've been the last few quarters including this quarter.
Obviously there is a number of -- there are number of factors that could push margins up or compress margins on an individual quarter.
We expect some fluctuation from quarter-to-quarter.
But in general we expect to stay in the same range we are right now.
Mike we've had tremendous as you know pricing power over the last couple of years and that's one of the things I think that's depleting the pool of buyers out there.
So clearly with our Express brand we're going to try to increase that pool.
But yet at the same time we don't see major pricing power opportunities in as many markets as what we've had in the last 2 years.
We are focused first and foremost on returns.
We have achieved a lot of pricing power a lot of operating margin improvement over the last couple of years.
Now we're focusing on maintaining that improving our volumes to drive stronger returns.
So continuing to increase to strengthen our returns versus where we've been.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last quick one SG&amp;A down 10 bps year-over-year I think in the first quarter it was down 30.
Should we expect a similar type of kind of just modest year-over-year improvement? I know longer term you're still trying to go for the 10%.
But in terms of the back half should we kind of expect a similar type of 10 20 bp improvement? Clearly with most of -- with approximately 60% of our annual closing is coming in the second half of the year we are anticipating stronger SG&amp;A performance in terms of decreasing our SG&amp;A as a percentage of revenues in the second half of the year.
So we would not be happy with a 20 bp decrease.
Research Division</strong> No I'm referring to year-over-year.
So I certainly would expect it to be materially lower back half versus first half but just as you look at on a year-over-year basis.
With our expectation that it would decrease by even more in the second half than you would infer for the year it will also decrease by even more than the 20 basis points we've been showing.
Is coming from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about DT's comments regarding the first-time home buyer potentially returning.
We've heard from a lot of people Texas is strong and benefiting from sustained investment in oil and gas.
What's your kind of expectation for other geographies that don't have that tailwind? And what do you think the timing is for something like that where we see this category open up? Well clearly I think if we gain job growth in this country which I think ultimately we're going to experience and I think clearly that's where a lot of those first-time home buyers are going to come from.
But I also believe strongly that as we move into this recovery first-time home buyer is not participating at the level that a lot of our political leaders would like for them to be participating.
And I think that they will see some encouragement from the government in terms of trying to get more and more people into entry level homes.
So my focus is really the affordable buyer job creation as well as a little help in the politics.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
So you need some things to come together for that to work out in the relative near term.
I think that was a take-away close there.
I'm supposed to do the take-away close.
LLC Research Division</strong> Go ahead.
Tell me.
I'm supposed to do the take-away close.
We wouldn't be getting into the Express brand if we didn't feel like that that was the next segment of the business to recover.
And clearly I do see more favorable job growth and I think a lot of that job growth is more on entry-level jobs and that's going to translate into entry-level buyers.
So improved job growth in the country as well as I think that we start looking at the underwriting guidelines and moving forward to try to get more people qualified I think that we're going to get some help on the qualification side.
And I think you're seeing that with several lenders today.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Very helpful.
Switching gears a little bit.
Average order price on new homes in the quarter was up 10% against a very tough comp from last year.
Do think you can sustain that kind of price appreciation during the balance of the year? How should we think about that? Should it tail off in the second half? Or do you think kind of a mid-single-digit full year price increase is achievable? It's hard to make it a call quarter-to-quarters.
But in a specific discrete time because of mix changes and things like that.
But we said consistently that we do expect -- we still expect further price increases but we expect it to moderate down into the single-digits.
Whether that will occur in Q3 or Q4 or sometime in fiscal '15 we can't tell you.
But we do expect it to moderate back to the single-digits.
Our next question is coming from Stephen East from ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I know you haven't talked about Express at all this call.
But I will ask you a couple of questions on the first-time buyer.
I mean in our field research we're definitely seeing a comeback and we're seeing some of that credit availability that you just mentioned.
Are you seeing a meaningful change? Your sales to first-time buyers were down year-over-year.
But have you already reached the inflection point? And is that turning as far as you all are seeing in traffic in demand et cetera? And are you starting to see that drive to qualify type of activity going on? I think the biggest thing that we're seeing is the lack of affordable buyers out there.
And as we increased our prices new pricing power over the last couple of years as I say we depleted that pool of the first-time homebuyer.
And our goal is to have a more competitively priced product with Express.
And as I said we are focusing on in a typical affordable market somewhere between $120 000 and $150 000 as an average sales price.
So we have not had product offerings in that price point.
So I think it's more of us trying to bring those people into the market as opposed to those people being out there and being underserved and driving to qualify.
I just think it's a function of there's just not the product out there for those people to qualify.
And if we can get that product price point down then I believe there are people out there who truly will buy just simply because they've been priced out of the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you having to -- for the Express product are you able to utilize some of that land that you already got on your books? Or is this primarily going to be new purchase-type of land base? It will be both Stephen.
There are some properties we have that we can bring out.
And it will be a good fit for Express.
But then there's also finished lots out there in areas that have been underserved that because there hasn't been anybody out there building this kind of product that are available to us as well.
So we will look at all sources.
But yes it will help us a little bit on our land held piece too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just quickly one last question to follow on what Bob was asking about other regions.
I mean this definitely -- your performance this quarter turn from Texas to a lot of other regions at least from the order perspective.
And we haven't necessarily seen that from all the other builders.
What do you all think is going on in your markets that's allowed you to start to see that meaningful improvement? Well I think clearly if you take a look at our West.
Our West had better sales and better closings.
And that's a function of us over the last year and 2 years taking good land positions in California and just now bringing those to fruition with model grand openings.
So I think that clearly helped a lot.
If you look at the East the East performed well for us.
And that's because David Auld was the previous regional president for the East.
And the only reason he's sitting across on this conference call table is because of his performance in the East.
But we entered into a lot of rolling option and a lot of good land deals in the East during his tenure.
And they were penetrating those markets deeper.
And we expect to continue to do that.
The South on the other hand it's been strong all during the downturn and it continues to be strong.
But it's being -- to our credit the South is being outpaced as we always said by the East and the West.
And we said that will be a great position for this company to be in because the South region held us up and supported us during the downturn.
And as Rick Horton said the best thing that could ever happen to him is for the East and West to take the pressure off of him.
So they are doing that today.
And we're in a great position.
Our next question is coming from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to just mention that I totally agree with your strategy to go after the entry level.
I mean as I recalled last month I think this is really where the puck is going.
And I really congratulate you guys on really being unique and sort of skating to where the puck is going so good job with that.
And I'm looking forward to learning a little bit more about the timing of how you roll out Express.
I know there was already a question asked on it.
I wanted to sort of roll something -- run something by you though.
When we look at the job growth figures that have been coming across generally speaking the numbers in raw units or raw numbers of jobs have actually been pretty good for a while and yet household information has been very depressed.
We have our view on why you haven't seen that translate into household information.
I'm curious as to what you are seeing in your markets.
Are you hearing that your entry -- that the entry-level buyers who are coming out are saying to you "It's been really tough to get to this point where we can actually buy a home because we haven't been able to -- it took us a lot to get jobs?" Or are you hearing that it's the type of jobs that they have been having that have required them to take longer to accrue the savings to buy the homes? Well I think most of the jobs being created in this country Steve are entry-level jobs.
And as a result just by definition I think they're having to save a lot longer.
I think the other thing that I was talking about earlier the help from the political side is with the high student loan debt that these people get these college kids are graduating young adults are graduating.
And there's work on the political side that would help relieve them of some of that burden with the college debt.
So as a result even though they are graduating from college many of them have had difficulty finding higher-paying jobs.
And secondly they're burdened with typically $26 000 with the student debt.
So a function of getting them that entry-level job which is pretty much a lot of them having to go into at perhaps a lower salary than what they expected and some relief on the student loan debt I think that pool begins to grow.
Research Division</strong> We've looked into the student loan issue.
And what we've seen mostly has been an initiative in Washington to sort of prevent predatory servicing I guess you could say but not necessarily in terms of forbearance or forgiveness so much.
Have you been hearing something more specific to forbearance or forgiveness of current outstanding student loan balances? As I'd like to say I watch too much Fox News.
But on Fox Business News yesterday there was a discussion on that.
And I just caught the headline as I was walking by the conference room.
So I don't know specifically about that but there was a discussion yesterday on that in terms of how they can work with the people who have the college debt.
I don't know whether that's forgiveness forbearance or whatever.
But I think you're going to have some relief.
I think that there's recognition that it's an issue and it is holding back economic growth I think there's a general sentiment that there will be some improvement or help along the way.
We're helping everyone else we might as well help the college students.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well that actually would have to be very encouraging.
Your land spend figures that you gave this quarter suggest that you spend about 22% of your revs on land spend.
It's about the lowest we've seen since the downturn.
I was curious as to whether you anticipate maintaining this very strict control on land spend for the rest of the year and in particular whether it is -- you would expect to spend maybe a little more on land suitable for your Express or if you think you really got enough there just like you do in the rest of your business.
I think we made a lot of early investments in the cycle that have allowed us to be very selective at this point and focus as Bill said before on the returns.
So I think we're seeing some -- a lot of replacement of lot costs that's coming through.
Bringing some of our land held back into production will help support some further growth.
But I don't see a huge expansion Stephen in the push on land at this point.
I think we're going to stay pretty focused and disciplined at this point moving forward.
The Express model we're going to prefer the finished lot deals as DT said but where necessary make disciplined investments on projects that meet our return hurdles.
That owned and controlled position of 170 000 lots that will support much higher revenues than what we're generating today.
So we believe that we can increase our revenues on the lot supply we have.
And then if we need to augment it -- so at some point down the line we will.
But today we feel like we're in good position.
We are clearly focused on one thing on the land side I assure you.
And that is how do we get our initial investment on our land back within a 24-month period.
And that's going to apply to all 3 brands.
But even just to replenish our lot supply there's still a significant spend.
They're still on pace of a $2 billion year in terms of land act and land development just to replenish and keep our lot supply where it is.
And so this is not that we're not investing we're just not necessarily growing our investment from the current level right now.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well I remember about a year ago you made this comment DT that you wanted to limit your land spend to things that you could get your money back in in 24 months.
And I hand it to you that was good timing because that was at a time when the market was feeling really ebullient.
Our next question is coming from Jack Micenko from SIG Capital.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But I wanted to just get your take on Texas specifically obviously your home market knocking on almost 40 years there.
It seems like a lot of the competition has been carving out Texas commentary this quarter job growth taxation whether it maybe reading a lot about population addition numbers pretty encouraging.
Are you seeing more builders come in? Is it more competitive than it was maybe a year or 2 ago? Are there more builders? Is your lot supply adequate there? Is land pricing disproportionately rising in Texas versus other markets? Just some color you can give us on the state overall.
Well obviously D.R.
started in Texas in 1978.
And I will tell you you can go to almost any community and turn the corner and there are multiple builder signs on every corner 20 to 30.
So Texas is one of the most competitive markets but it also has few barriers to entry.
And that's one of the things that makes it so attractive and that is that land prices are still competitively priced so we can deliver a competitive lot.
And there's ease of entry in terms of not having to go through as we do in a number of markets a 2- to 3-year entitlement period.
Most of our land we can get entitled and plotted within a period of 6 months or less.
And there are adequate general contractors to develop lots down here.
So in general we think Texas has been a strong market.
It's a very competitive market.
We continue to lead every market in Texas.
One of the things we're most proud of recently is that we're on our way to being #1 in the Houston market.
We've been in the Dallas/Fort Worth market #1.
And we're focusing on San Antonio and Austin.
And I'll tell you that all of those markets are very very strong for us and we're very competitive in those markets.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So it sounds like it's always -- it's sort of a status quo I mean always been a good housing market and it doesn't [indiscernible] the others...
Well I think it's a good housing market because of the strong economy and as well as it's a great place to live with the people coming in and being able to buy a nice house that's affordable.
And land prices are competitive.
So there's no income tax in the state of Texas so there are a lot of attractive reasons and the weather is great here.
So I don't know why.
There aren't many states that are as centrally-located with as many attributes as the state of Texas has.
I mean we've been a leader in Texas and we'll continue to be the leader in Texas as we move forward.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just I mean how do you think about Emerald in terms of size and mix? I know it's a tough thing to answer with numerator denominator mix and that sort of thing moving around.
But how big could Emerald be? I know you rattled off some numbers early on.
I missed some of those.
But I think you said 6% I believe.
I mean how do think that number could play out over time? Well I think we said it all when we said we are focusing on being the leading luxury builder in the U.S.
And we anticipate that that's a good growth segment for us and very profitable growth segment for us.
But we're expanding it where it makes sense.
And just like we said on the Express side we started slow dipping our toe in the water.
And we found a great success in that market great demand for our product out there.
And the product line that we're offering is extraordinary in terms of finish out and quality of homes.
So we expect Emerald to continue to be a bigger and bigger portion of our business.
And as I said our focus is how do we become the leading luxury builder in the U.S.
Our next question is coming from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask if you could clarify your comments on backlog conversion and how you would expect that to trend in the balance of the year.
Do you think 4Q levels could reach what was achieved this quarter? And longer term do you think normal backlog conversion should be below 70% or something in the 70% to 75% range normal? Yes.
There definitely is seasonality Jade to our backlog conversion rate.
As we said earlier we'd expect it to be around 75% in our third quarter which really is our historical average at this point if you look over the last 10 years.
And then traditionally our fourth quarter would be a higher backlog conversion rate than our third quarter.
With as many homes that we sell and close in the same quarter it's hard for us to give you guidance much further out than the next quarter.
But yes I think we'd expect our backlog conversion rate to increase somewhat in the fourth quarter from whatever we end up doing in the third quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as a normal conversion rate do you think something in the 70% to 75% range is a normalized level? I think in the back half of the year yes.
And in the first half of the year seasonally it's usually a little bit lighter.
And we thought it was abnormal that we had an 80% backlog conversion in the second quarter.
But usually second quarter is slower or lower backlog conversion than the first quarter.
So I guess our builders out there just decided to close a lot more homes in the second quarter than we anticipated.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
On financial services the operating margin increased sequentially which accounted to some of the mortgage banking trends we have been seeing.
Do you expect the margin to moderate in coming quarters? Or do you think the current level has absorbed most of the competitive pressures? We think we've absorbed most of it thus far.
Obviously we don't -- we can't tell what the future holds.
But we certainly are encouraged when our volume is going up.
And typically in the quarters when we have higher volume in our financial services segment we'll see a better operating margin.
And so Q3 and Q4 typically will show a better margin than we do in Q1 and Q2.
Our next question is coming from Jay McCanless from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> First question on Express.
Is the initial crop of neighborhoods there going to be repurposed D.R.
Horton neighborhoods? Or is that something you might be pulling out of mothball? If you could just talk about that.
I think it's a combination of both with a lot of them are new option lot deals that we entered into.
And typically it's in a market clearly where we've already been building the D.R.
Horton brand and we're trying to increase our affordable buyer pool in that market because we have seen people coming into our model homes in the D.R.
Horton brand who can't qualify because of the pricing power that we had over the last couple of years.
So primarily it's expanding and supplementing our existing markets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was going to ask if we could dig in to the financing questions because while I would guess you're waiting on Washington to decide it wants to get back into the entry-level housing market have you been hearing from bankers that they're willing to buy higher FICO paper -- excuse me lower FICO paper a little bit more risky paper on the average Express buyer even with mortgage rates sitting where they are now? Actually we've heard the same thing you've heard on the media over the course over the last 60 to 90 days.
We from our mortgage company perspective don't see a lot of institutions willing to buy that kind of paper.
So as a result it's limited from that perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could sneak one more in.
When you were talking about the luxury builders private luxury builders not getting a lot of financing from the banks could you -- what are you seeing on the land development side? Are the banks willing to do development lending now? Or is that still a very small or closed business? Very very limited.
And thank goodness for our strong balance sheet because frankly as we've worked through that supply of finished lots that were generated in '07 '08 and '09 we've had to begin developing obviously.
It takes a strong balance sheet to be able to do that.
Clearly that small builder small developer not back in the business because of lack of capital.
Our next question is coming from Jim Krapfel from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> To what extent did weather push out closings negatively impact orders or lead to incremental cost in the quarter? It appears that there wasn't much effect in the closing side.
Well we have a policy at D.R.
Horton.
And it's a sincere policy.
And that is we don't want our division presidents to give us a weather report.
And so we're not really -- we work with our broad geographic footprint to the extent that we did have weather-related issues is really a nonevent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what were the cost ASPs per square foot in your closings this quarter? On a year-over-year basis our revenues per square foot were up 9%.
We usually talk about our vertical costs our vertical's stick and brick costs during the quarter on a per square basis were up 10%.
So essentially our costs and our revenues increased at about the same rate on a per square foot basis.
Now in aggregate per unit revenue still exceeded our cost increases.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the cost side where do you see that trending going forward? You said you see some moderation in that inflation.
I think costs are going to continue to increase.
We are fortunate that we have a lot of volume in most of our markets so that we can be more competitive with our subcontractors on the cost side.
But clearly labor is one of the cost components that's going up.
And lumber I don't think is going to come down nearly as much as what it did last year.
It seems like it's going to hang high at where it is currently right now.
But it's a day-to-day process for our purchasing managers to work with our vendors and our suppliers and our trades out there to get the benefit of the volume that we can offer our vendors and our trades.
Our final question today is coming from Alex Barrón from Housing Research Center.
LLC</strong> I wanted to ask on the Express homes.
Are you guys going about your marketing strategy in a different way meaning are you trying to target those entry level -- those renters more directly? Or are you kind of going the traditional way of just kind of waiting for them to show up at the communities? Well I think it's a different type of marketing.
I know that as you clearly are trying to attract the entry-level buyer a lot of them living in apartments.
And so we try to do a special marketing with the apartment complexes that are near us.
And another potential pool are the people living with their -- the college graduates and others that are living with their parents.
And I think we do that primarily through realtors.
I also believe that our Express brand that it's going to be easier for perhaps parents to help their children get into homes because they could help them a lot easier with a lower price point as we have with the Express brand than they can in a standard price that's with D.R.
Horton.
So I look at both those avenues as trying to get with the realtors to make sure that the parents or the kids who are living at home we can attract them with a lower price point as well as focusing on those apartments.
LLC</strong> And also wondering if you guys have considered doing a stock buyback given how cheap your stock is this year? Well we don't -- I don't really want to comment on the stock buyback.
I do know one thing on our business that's pretty general.
And that is our focus is how do we get to a free cash flow position.
And I think Alex if we adhere to our business plan that David is helping us implement I think that we'll clearly get to a free cash flow position.
And when we get to a free cash flow position we're going to be in a position to do a lot of things.
And one of them will be perhaps buying back our stock.
But the key is how do we get to that free cash flow.
We've reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the floor back over to management at this time.
Thank you.
And thank you for joining this call.
D.R.
and I and David want to thank everybody in the field because we had one heck of a quarter as you know and we turned in a sterling performance in the month of March and we appreciate that.
The key is how do we go forward execute the business plan in Q3 and Q4 and deliver a very very outstanding year for us in 2014.
We're welcomed to have David onboard.
He's a good addition to the 38th floor up here.
And we've got a great team of people here as well as in the field.
So thank you very much.
And as I say execute the competition and don't take any prisoners.
Thank you.
That does concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to D.R.
Horton America’s Builder the largest builder in the United states Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr.
Don Tomnitz President and CEO of D.
R.
Horton.
Thank you Mr.
Tomnitz.
You may begin.
Thank you Kevin.
Thank you and good morning.
Joining me this morning are David Auld Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mike Murray Senior Vice President of Business Development; and Jessica Hansen Vice President of Communications.
Before we get started Jessica?  Some comments made on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton’s annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Don? This brings demand for new homes remain relatively stable compared to last year across the most of our markets.
and the D.R Horton team leveraged our platform as the largest and most geographically diverse homebuilders to generate a 25% year-over-year increase in our third quarter net sales orders.
Our increased community count and inventories of lands lots and homes put us in a strong competitive position.
and our teams in the field have secured our business plan superbly this quarter by focusing on achieving their targeted sales absorptions in each community every week.
D.R Horton has been the leader in the U.S homebuilding industry for 12 consecutive years.
Our market share position today is the largest in our history with 40% more homes closed than any other builder in the most recently reported 12-month period.
To diversify and strengthen our market share both nationally and at the local level.
we’re actively extending product offerings across all price points throughout D.R.
Horton Express Homes and Emerald Homes brands.
The rollouts of our entry-level Express brand and our move-up on luxury Emerald brand are going well.
And we will discuss our progress on both later in the call.
Our homebuilding and financial services operations generated another solid quarter of profitable with $22.65 – with $226.5 million excuse me say that one more time with $226.5 million of operating income and a 10.6% operating margin excluding impairment charges.
With our 11 365 homes in backlog and the year-over-year improvement we have seen in our sales during the first part of July we expect strong home closings revenues and profits in our fourth fiscal quarter ending September.
All our efforts are part of our comprehensive return focus strategy which we will explain in more detail throughout the call.
Our primary strategic goal is to leverage our strong competitive position to generate growth and revenues and profits at a double-digit pace while improving our cash flows and increasing our returns on invested capital.
Some of the operating actions we are taking to execute our return focus strategy resulted in some volatility on our financial metrics this quarter.
However we believe our consistent focus on increasing our returns and cash flows were still growing our revenues and profits will greatly benefit our company and most importantly our shareholders over the next two years.
Bill? Net income for the third quarter was $113.1 million or $0.32 per diluted share compared to $146 million or $0.42 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Our consolidated pre-tax income was $171.8 million in the third quarter compared to $205.1 million in the year-ago quarter.
And homebuilding pretax income was $158.6 million compared to $185.4 million in the prior year quarter.
The decrease in our pretax income this quarter was caused by $54.7 million of inventory impairment charges primarily in our Chicago market where we are taking actions to reduce inventories to enable us to redeploy the capital to generate better returns.
We will discuss these actions later in the call.
Our third quarter home sales revenues increased 28% to $2.1 billion on 7 676 homes closed up from $1.6 billion on 6 464 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $272 300 up 8% compared to the prior year largely driven by increases in average selling prices in our Southeast and West regions.
David?  The value of our net sales orders in the third quarter increased 32% from the year-ago quarter to $2.4 billion.
Homes sold increased 25% to 8 551 homes on 11% increase in active selling communities.
Our average sales price increased 5% to $281 300 the cancellation for the third – cancellation rate for the third quarter was 24% consistent with the year-ago quarter.
The value of our backlog increased 26% from a year ago to $3.3 billion with an average sales price of $286 200 and homes in backlog increased 15% to 11 365 homes.
Our backlog conversion rate for the third quarter was 74% excluding closings from Crown Communities subsequent to the acquisition date.
We expect our fourth quarter backlog conversion rate to be around 75% consistent with our long-term average for the fourth quarter.
A key part of our return focus strategy is to consistently achieve our targeted sales absorptions in each community.
Community absorption targets vary depending on location product type lot supply and market conditions at a local level.
Our operators proactively adjust product offerings sales prices and incentives to meet the market effectively compete from new home demand with a goal of improving inventory turn and optimizing return on our investments.
The best way to maximize returns and profits over the life of our communities is to sell and close at a consistent and plan phase.
As the spring unfolded we adjusted an increase to level of incentives in many communities which helped generate our strong sales result.
Overall incentive levels were extremely low levels in fiscal 2013 and early 2014 but are now returning to normal levels in many markets with significant variations across our communities.
Mike?  In early May we acquired the home building operations of Crown Communities for approximately $210 million in cash; Crown operates in Georgia South Carolina and Eastern Alabama.
we acquired approximately 640 homes in inventory 2 350 lots and control of an additional 3 400 lots through option contracts.
We also acquired a sales order backlog of 431 homes valued at $113.6 million.
All of the assets acquired were recorded at their estimated fair values and $53.6 million of goodwill was recorded as a result of the purchase.
Our home sales gross profit this quarter was reduced by $9 million of purchase accounting related to the acquisition and we expect additional purchase accounting impact of $9 million on home sales gross profit over the next three quarters.
Our third quarter results include 290 net sales and 254 closings from the Crown operations.
And Crown increased our average active selling communities by 4% for the quarter.
The Crown team operates an efficient business with very strong returns and we are pleased to have them on the D.R.
Horton team.
Jessica.
We continue to experience strong growth and profitability in the heart of our business our D.R.
Horton branded communities which accounted for the substantial majority of our sales and closing this quarter.
We are also pleased with the progress and performance of the rollouts of our Express Homes and Emerald Homes brands as we expand our product offerings to diversify and strengthen our market position both nationally and at a local level.
This year we introduced our Express Homes brand which is targeted as the true entry-level buyer who is focused first and foremost on affordability.
A segment we believe is currently underserved.
In October we acquired Regent Homes an entry level builder on the Carolinas as we began to refocus on that segment of the market.
Today and going forward we include Regent in our reported metrics for Express.
We are now offering Express in 22 markets and eight states with a significant majority of our sales and closings to date coming from Texas the Carolinas.
Even though we are still in an early stages of the roll out Express accounted for 7% of our homes sold 4% of our home’s closed and 2% of homes sales revenue in the third quarter.
The Average closing price for an Express Homes this quarter was $156 000.
Customer response to our affordable Express product offerings has been extremely positive.
In 2012 under the D.R.
Horton brand we began adding more communities and floor plans targeted toward move out buyers.
Last year we introduced Emerald Homes as our brand for the higher end move up and luxury communities 6% of homes closed this quarter were greater than $500 000 under both the Horton an Emerald brands accounting for 16% of our home sales revenue up from 3% in homes closed and 9% revenues in the same quarter of last year.
We are now offering Emerald in 32 markets across the 11 states.
Homes market in under our Emerald homes brand accounted for 2% of our homes sold and closed and 4% of our home sales revenue in the third quarter.
The average closing price for an Emerald home this quarter was $655 000 consistent with our return focused strategy our expectation for all three of our brands is at 20% minimum annual return on inventory defined as pre-tax income divided by average inventory.
And our underwriting criteria for all land and lot purchases reflects this ROI expectation.
In general we expect our Emerald communities to generate higher than average gross margin at slower than average absorptions.
Our Express communities to generate faster than average absorption at lower than average gross margin and our Horton communities to continue to operate around our average margin and absorption.
Bill? At the significant improvement in our gross margins over the last several quarters we expected further improvement in our margins to be challenging and we expected revenue growth to become the strongest driver of our profit growth.
Our expectation will realize this quarter as home price appreciation is moderating some costs were still rising and incentives are increasing back to normal levels.
At the same time we are focused on improving our returns on our inventory investments in each community at balancing our home prices incentives sales pace and profit margins.
Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the third quarter was 20.7 % down 70 basis point from the year ago quarter 60 basis points of the margin decrease was caused by higher relative costs for warranty and construction defect claims as a percentage of home sales revenue.
Due to a large amount of costs reimbursements received in the prior year quarter.
40 basis points of decrease related to purchase accounting impact from the acquisitions of Crown Communities and Regent Homes.
These decreases were partially offset by 20 basis points from year-over-year increases in sales prices and by 10 basis point due to lower amortized interest and property taxes costs as a percentage of home sales revenue compared to the prior year quarter.
Sequentially our home sales gross margin decreased 180 basis points from the second quarter 90 basis points of the sequential margin decrease was due to the combined effect of higher levels of incentives and cost increases.
As we mentioned earlier we adjusted and increased the level of incentives in many communities throughout the spring in an effort to improve sales absorptions and maximize returns and profits.
In general incentives were at extremely low levels in fiscal 2013 and early 2014 and are now returning to more levels.
An additional 60 basis points of the sequential margin decrease was due to higher relative costs for warranty and construction defect claims and the remaining 30 basis points related to the purchase accounting impact from the Crown acquisition.
Generally in a stable housing environment we expect our average gross margins to be around 20% with quarterly fluctuations due to product and geographic mix and the relative impact of warranty and construction defects and interest costs.
Mike? Another important aspect of our return focused strategy is actively managing inactive or underperforming assets to improve returns and cash flows.
And redeploying the cash in the more productive assets as market conditions have improved we are activating development of many of our mothballed assets and we’ll begin selling and closing homes in these new communities over the next year.
As a result our balance of land held for development declined over $100 million to $396 million at June 30 which corresponds to a 22% decrease in the number of lots to 17 000 lots from year ago our operators continue to develop their plans for each remaining held land parcel and we expect that land held for development will significantly decline over the upcoming year.
Our third quarter results included $54.7 million of inventory impairment charges $48.8 million of the charges occurred in our mid west region primarily related to large land positions and actively selling communities in Chicago acquired between 2004 and 2007 that had been previously impaired in contrast to most of our markets the Chicago housing markets remains very weak with sales absorptions and returns in these communities performing a lower expectations relative to the size of our investments.
In response during the quarter we reduced prices and identified land parcels we intend to sell in these communities in an effort to increase sales pace reduced inventories and improved cash flows and returns.
Based on current market conditions we believe that we do not have another concentration of underperforming communities in an individual market that would result in impairment charges of the same magnitude as we incurred in Chicago this quarter.
However as we execute our return focus strategy and take actions to optimize cash returns by modifying our product pricing incentives or plans to sell land in individual active communities and land held for development we could incur additional impairment charges in the future.
Don? Home building SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $221.9 million compared to $167.5 million in the prior year quarter as a percentage of home building revenues our SG&amp;A was 10.8% this quarter compared to 10.2% in the prior year quarter.
Fiscal year to date SG&amp;A as a percentage of home sales revenues was 10.9% flat with last year.
We are actively investing an SG&amp;A infrastructure to support our current and expected growth.
Additionally the third quarter SG&amp;A percentage included a 20 basis point impact due to the increased valuation and compensation accruals which increased because of our higher stock prices this quarter.
And to correct myself our SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was 10.6%.
We expect SG&amp;A as a percentage of home sales revenues to decrease sequentially on fourth quarter on higher expected revenues.
Beyond fiscal 2014 our ongoing annual target for SG&amp;A as a percentage of home building revenues is 10%.
Financial services pretax income for the quarter with $13.2 million compared to $19.7 million in the year-ago quarter.
This quarter continued to reflect a more normal competitive pricing environment where as the year-ago quarter benefitted from unusually favorable market condition which produced higher than normal gains on sale of mortgages.
88% of our mortgage company’s loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by homebuilding operation.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 43% of the mortgage company’s volume down from 47% in the year-ago quarter.
Borrowers originating loans with our mortgage company during the quarter had an average FICO score of 719 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 89%.
David? At the end of June we had 20 500 homes and inventory of which 1 500 were models 10 000 were speculative homes with 31 100 of the specs being completed.
Our construction and progress and finished homes inventory increased by $518 million during the quarter.
And now it represents 46% of our inventory balance.
The highest percentage continues.
This component of our inventory is the fastest turning portion of the inventory investment.
At June 30 our lot portfolio consisted of a 125 000 owned lots with an additional 54 000 lots controlled through option contracts.
66 000 of our lots are finished with half owned and optioned.
Our land held for development totaled 17 000 lots down 22% from March.
As we continue to proactively work through the older inactive land to redeploy the capital and improve inventory turns cash flow and the overall return on investment.
With a 179 000 total lots owned and controlled we are in a strong position to compete in a current housing market with a sufficient lot supply to support strong growth in those sales and closings in the coming years.
In the third quarter our investment and lots land and development totaled $665 million of which $456 million was to replenish finished lots and land and $209 million were spent on land development.
Our investment and lots land and development for the first nine months of the year excluding the Crown and Regent acquisitions totaled $1.7 billion down from $2.1 billion last year.
Bill? At June 30 our unrestricted home building cash totaled $538.5 million and we had available capacity on a revolving credit facility of $657 million with no cash borrowings outstanding.
Our home building leverage ratio net of cash was 34.4% and our gross home building leverage was 38.7%.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at June 30 was $3.1 billion.
$137.9 million of our senior notes mature in September and we have sufficient cash and revolver capacity to repay these notes.
During the quarter the holders are 2% convertible senior notes converted their notes into 38.6 million shares of common stock which added $500 million to paid-in capital this quarter.
At June 30 our shareholders equity balance was $5 billion and book value per share was $13.63.
Based on our solid balance sheet liquidity and current and expected levels of profitability our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend by 67% from the most recent dividend paid to $6.25 per share.
The dividend is payable on August 18 to shareholders of record on August 8.
Don? In closing we are pleased that we maintained our position as the largest builder in United States by volume for the 12 consecutive year.
We are growing our volume at a faster rate than the overall industry and continue to capture additional market share.
Based on the recent local leaders issue of Builder Magazine ranking homebuilders market share in the top 50 new home markets in the United States.
D.R.
Horton is the number one builder in four of the top 10 markets is a top five builder in eight of the top 10 markets has a double-digit percentage share in 10 markets and is a top five builder in half of the top 15 new home markets.
We also have a leading market share position in many markets outside of the top 50.
Our leading market share position nationally and in many of our local markets provided the platform for us to produce very strong increases in a value of our sales closings and backlog of 32% 28% and 26% respectively.
We generated another solid quarter of profitability with consolidated pre-tax income of $171.8 million and $2.1 billion of revenues.
We have also made good progress this year towards our long-term goal producing positive cash flow from operations was still growing the business.
In the first nine months of fiscal 2014 our cash used in operating activities declined by $560 million as compared to the prior year period.
We expect additional substantial progress on our cash flow performance over the next year.
We remain intently focused on growing our revenues at a double-digit pace with strong profits while improving our cash flows and increasing our returns on invested capital.
We are very well positioned to do so with our solid balance sheet industry leading market share broad geographic footprint diversified product offerings across our three brands and attractive finished lot and land position and most importantly our tremendous operational team across the country.
D.R.
and I would like to personally thank our employees for your continued hard work and accomplishments.
We want to specifically thank our sales people for focusing on achieving their budgeted net sales in each week in each subdivision.
A key element in improving our ROI and free cash flow.
Keep it up and let’s finish our fiscal year out strong.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now host any question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question today is coming from David Goldberg from UBS.
Please proceed with your question Good morning everybody.
Good morning David.
Good morning David.
My first question was about the level of incentives you guys are offering and what I’m trying to figure out is are you finding that other builders are kind of coming out and matching you on these incentives.
And if so is there an endgame when you said look it doesn't make sense anymore we might sell more homes for a short period of time but eventually it’s just kind of a zero sum game or do you find that the competition is a little more reluctant to come after you guys given that you probably have a better cost structure and can still make money maybe at little bit lower price? We really have not noticed the other builders coming after us as you mentioned.
And I think that's reflected in their sales increases that most of them have reported so far compared to our sales increase.
So as a result I don't believe that it’s adversely affecting the market for other builders.
We’re focused on our key strategy of hitting our minimum absorption for community for a week so that we can generate a higher return on our inventory and generate free cash flow for our investors.
And then just as a follow-up on the warranty – the change in warranty nothing specific happening there there wasn't anything underlying that no change in terms of increased claims or anything like that just kind of normal fluctuations or is there anymore to read into that? Just normal fluctuations nothing specific in the quarter that occurred no specific charges.
The comparison to the prior-year period we had received some more infrequent cash reimbursements in the prior-year quarter.
This quarter we received no such reimbursements.
So it's just simply a normal fluctuations.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Great job in the quarter.
Wanted to get some clarity I guess.
You made the comment I think you used the phrase stable demand earlier on in your prepared remarks and obviously the new home sales numbers came out and look like it was a pretty squishy number.
Know that that’s not the most reliable metric of all but I wanted to see if you could clarify that.
Particularly in the context of your commentary about discounting being up and Bill’s comment that I think you said generally you look for about a 20% gross margin which is obviously lower than – significantly lower than what you kind of been doing if you make the adjustments for the one-time event.
So was curious if you could just sort of talk about what you mean by seeing stable demand in the context of you discounting in the comment on gross margins? Thanks.
Well in terms of our comment on stable demand we saw a significant increase in demand in 2013.
And we saw a significant price appreciation in 2013.
And so the levels of demand a year ago had increased dramatically.
We all know that has moderated some since then and as we assess this spring we would say on an overall basis the demand is relatively stable with where it was last year.
Obviously there are significant variations across our markets.
Some markets were still seeing increasing demand others are flatter.
Generally in most markets we are seeing less price appreciation here this quarter.
So really from our perspective settling into a more normal pattern perhaps modest growth modest price appreciation but not as dramatic as a year ago.
Same thing for our incentives.
A year ago our incentive levels were very low extremely low.
Now that is simply moving back to a more normal level and so reflectively than we would expect our margins to return to a more normal level which is really around that 20% level.
The margins when they get a point two points two and a half points higher than that 20% level are really the exception rather than the rule over the long-term.
And as we said for years Steve we said the normal margins in this industry are somewhere between 18% and 22% and our goal is to hit a 20% gross margin 10% SG&amp;A and 10% pretax operating margin.
So that’s our focus and it continues to be our focus.
And our number one focus is generating a 20% return on investment community by community and that is – that requires us balancing our pace our pricing our incentives and our margin I guess volumes to maximize really the return.
And so yes we’ll give some incentive to achieve 25% sales increase will take that train.
We are in a strong position if you take a look at out total lot inventory of 175 000 lots and I’ve said after quarter after quarter after quarter our people have done a great job of buying land on lots at a very early time in the recovery.
And what we are doing is taking those lots putting homes on them and producing very good margins based upon our low costs in land on lots.
Now important to realize this is community by community every community has a different target depending on its own situation there is certain market were our lot suppliers are more constrained but we cannot replace the lots we have whether it’s very limited housing inventory.
And so in those markets our target absorptions are lower and we will push prices more there.
Because that is the path to higher return in those communities other communities there is not such good strengths and the best path is to drive volume at a consistent pace.
That’s very helpful thanks very much.
Regarding the volume we obviously are hearing about your plans across the price spectrum to grow pretty significantly and it looks very intriguing.
One of the things that we gotten as pushback from folks is the Commonwealth it sounds like an incredibly bold market strategy.
In environment that frankly doesn't sound so bullish.
My interpretation is that your strategy is not actually characterized cannot be categorized as a bull market share.
I was wondering if you could respond in your own words that the proliferation of your communities plant openings and Emerald Express and D.R.
Horton and in the context of somebody saying that’s sounds like a bull market strategy.
I think it’s a very conservative strategy and if you look at our creation and our expansion of our express model.
That’s creating a lot of the bullish scenario associated with our sales and we are in a limited number of markets now both our Express really in 22 markets in each stated and obviously we have 79 markets in 27 states and wish to expand the Express.
With an ASP of $156 000 this quarter on Express we feel very bullish about the opportunity to continue to expand Express and I think that will contribute to our higher than industry level sales on a go forward basis simply because we have chosen apart of the market that we believe truly as underserved.
And as I said last quarter a portion of the market that we feel comfortable is going to grow with the higher rate than the other parts of the market and that’s why we chose to leverage up ourselves and expand into Express and as well we clearly believe there is demand in that segment of the market that there is no supply board.
And so we don’t believe that’s an aggressive strategy that just simply addressing a need in the market.
We also Steve are leveraging of existing profitable platforms so it’s not like we’re jumping into new markets that we don’t have operating platforms in today.
To me it’s a very conservative later take demand is a market today.
We are not trying to do Greenfield as a market so we don’t know anything about we no a lot about the markets.
We’re just opening our new brand which we feel like the market is being underserved.
Makes a lot of sense.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I had a question first off on the timing and pattern of the incentives if there is any way to give a little more detail there.
In terms of you mentioned that obviously you want to get to a certain pace and incentives were particularly low.
and now you’ve taken it back to normal but I’m curious if that occurred maybe towards the beginning of the second quarter or the late in the end of – late at the end of your fiscal first quarter or is it something that has the spring selling season been in maybe in fully materialized to your more hopeful expectations in the May June timeframe you’ve kind of cranked it up then? (Indiscernible) please.
And I’m sorry and also if the incentives were more prevalent in some markets versus others.
Actually occurred in March and we had our division presence meeting in April and that’s at which point in time we focus with our division presence on hitting their full form of absorption level on a community-by-community basis because we fell like that if they give that and they would achieve the ROIs return on inventories that they have projected and the return on inventories that we won it.
And again the incentive levels will vary by community-to-community as Bill said earlier where they are a shortage of lots or we can’t replace those lots with the cost basis we have in them and we’re going to maximize our gross margins and our absorptions are going to go at a slower pace.
But as David said where we have larger inventory of loss and we can easily price those lots and that’s going to be the business model where we’re focusing on higher absorptions and lower gross margins.
I want to emphasize though if you look at our three product lines Express where we’re going to have lower margins and higher absorptions Emerald where we’re going to have lower absorptions and higher margins and both of those are going to blend right in to D.R.
Horton margins.
And once again I don’t want anybody to get confused our overall company goal is 20 10 10 20% gross margin 10% 10% SG&amp;A and 10% of the PTI lines with a 20% net ROI community-by-community.
So in terms of that 20% goal Don I mean last quarter I believe you said it’s a company that you talked going forward gross margins in a range of the prior four quarters which is in a kind of a 21% to 22% range was more sustainable.
it seems like you are more kind of revising that more based towards saying that you said on a much longer basis that is just again this 20 10 10 is that fair? As I’ve mentioned to Steve and I’ll say it again and again as said ever since we have been doing these conference calls the normal gross margins on this industry a range between 18% to 22% we believe a normalized gross margin for ourselves or somewhere right at the 20% level.
and we were very fortunate and early stages of the recovery where we have a lot of pricing power there was a lot of increase in medium prices of homes across the country because I had the market had overreacted in a lot of markets and prices that decline more than they probably should have but normal margins for us are 20% 10% and as Bill said a 20% level line.
I mean Don speaking to the longer-term – longer-term expectations which that is clearly specific to the guidance we gave last quarter that was targeted more towards the next few quarters.
And I’d like the low end of that range would have been around 21.4%.
So our margins did come in below the low end of the range that we gave.
Specifically the causes for that would have been the purchase accounting impact and the fluctuation that we had in the warranty and construction defect claims outside of those would have been within the range.
and then going forward over the long-term we expect to fluctuate around the 20% but again focusing on returns.
But if you look at a very important metric and we’ll do this all day long.
We can get a 25% to 28% increase in sales quarter-over-quarter and only have to give up 90 basis points on incentives.
That’s a win-win for us in our shareholders.
I appreciate that and thanks for the additional color Bill.
I guess one last one the SG&amp;A; I think you said that 20 bips was due to some of the stock comp related expense.
but even without that SG&amp;A was on a percentage basis roughly similar to year ago on a 28% revenue growth.
So but we expected maybe a little bit of leverage there on a percentage basis on a year-over-year basis.
Any thoughts around that and are there any items that we’re not taking to account? I think we’re going to continue to see further leverage in the SG&amp;A.
Sales are still pacing at a pretty good level ahead of – with revenues and ahead of revenues and we’re still building some of the infrastructure to support that growth that we’re seeing in the brand launches and the platforms across the country as we do that.
So I think we’re going to see better leverage on our SG&amp;A into the fourth quarter.
And then coming closer to – back to our historical target of 10% in the next year with the leverage we’ll attain on the SG&amp;A.
We believe that’s a good problem that we have and that is our SG&amp;A is growing to support our extraordinary growth in sales and our backlog.
Okay.
And the better leverage for 4Q would be on a year-over-year basis as well or just sequentially? Certainly sequentially.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Dan Oppenheim from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much.
Good job in terms of responding to the market.
I think historically you guys have always done well in terms of balancing the pace and price there.
Wondering as you talked about the 90 basis points in terms of the second quarter margins presumably some of the – what you’re doing with the incentives were to generate sales that will be closing – sorry the second calendar quarter of its third fiscal.
But if we think about the fourth fiscal quarter here some of those would like to be coming two or three that’s more of a hit to margins in the coming quarter from this impact.
We’re not necessaries for giving specific guidance from next quarter or the next quarter.
in terms of margins we are going to continue to balance the incentive to what we see in the marketplace and we still close a significant percentage of homes in the same quarter in which we sell them.
So there is some reflection of the current market in our closings each quarter but our overall guidance has really built the longer-term.
We’re going to fluctuate around 20% some quarters we may be higher than that some quarters we may not.
Great thanks very much.
Thanks.
So our next question today is coming from Mike Roxland form Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much.
Is there anyway to quantify how much incentives have increased versus earlier in the year 2013? Mike we really look at it in terms of the impact on our gross margin.
and so the biggest impact we’ve seen from incentives so far in 2014 would be this quarter with the 90 basis points there are also some cost increases associated with those 90 basis points but for the most part that is incentives.
So we’ll continue to see how that falls out that we really just to try to talk about it in terms of how it impacts our gross margin.
Got you.
and then just when you look at the entire housing complex what would say is the biggest limiting factor preventing more robust housing recoveries credit is an employment is the labor availability constraining the ability of builders to construct homes? It’s the biggest impediment of the housing industry continues to be job growth.
and I still say that we continue to create a lot of temporary jobs and part-time jobs and my comment is is that part-time workers are now looking for a house or looking for a full-time job.
so I think combined the major thing that we can do to help the housing industry and all industries is to create permanent jobs and better paying jobs.
and secondly to have a consumer confidence level where people can wake up in the morning feel good about what’s going on in the economy and then the rights so those two factors continue to drive our business more than anything else but jobs jobs jobs is what grows our industry.
Thanks.
Thank you.
our next question is coming from Stephen East from ISI Group.
please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
good morning guys.
you talked about the gross margin expectations et cetera moving back to 20 – and I assume the global warming maturity of that is going to be in your core D.R.
Horton product.
but if you look at express where you are today with its volumes where would you expect that the sort of run through over the next two or three years and how much of that would be driving this move back down to a 20% gross margin? Well we’re underwriting as Jessica said earlier in the conference call we’re underwriting our express as well as our D.R.
Horton are at 20% gross margin I’d say 20% return which then basically employs that are turning in our inventory couple times a year but our gross margin as we said would be less than the 20% level.
Yes.
And Steven so what you’re actually seeing so far I would say is better than expected margins on express and they are trending relatively close to that 20% range just high of that that made change as we go forward because as we said multiple times throughout the call we are focused first and foremost on that 20% ROI.
And if we’re turning to inventory quick enough as Don said we can work for a little bit less gross margins.
but in terms of our gross margin a guidance which really isn’t guidance but in terms of it being around that 20% that’s just a combination of our day-to-day business and isn’t really an expectation of Express becoming a bigger piece of our business.
It will become a bigger piece of our business but we think we can run all three brands combined and put out somewhere around a 20% gross margin over the long-term.
Okay.
You asked about how big it could be.
we haven’t put necessarily specific targets on how big it could be.
We’re still on the very early stages.
we do expect substantial growth in Express and Emerald that we expected to grow as well but we haven’t necessarily put a specific target as far as percentage of the business and really different times in the cycle different economic conditions the percentages of the business may fluctuate about.
but clearly right now we expect substantial growth from where we are today.
Okay.
As Jessica said right now our Express is running about 20% gross margin even though it’s – we’re underwriting it for less but we think that will probably decline some over the years.
Sure got you.
and then different subject if you just look at the order progression through the quarter we got noised the June absorptions much lower than the prior two months is better as one – what your progression looks like did you see that in just any color on July.
And really just on July what we said on that call that we’re continuing to see year-over-year improvement in our July sales.
And so I’d say we’re pleased just like we were in Q2 thus far we’re not finished with July but we’re happy with what we’ve seen.
And really we saw strong steady sales pace really throughout all three months of the quarter typically when you get into June you start to see a little bit of seasonal slowdown but we didn’t see very much.
So overall now we will still see good consistent demand all three months.
Okay thank you.
Thank you our question today is coming from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
My question I recognize this is all done at community level but if you look at the company wide average how was – how are the absorptions now relative to the budgets and employment is getting added there you think there is further need to tweak some things to get things going or do you have the pace where you want it.
Adam its David what I’ve experienced out in the field for 25 years is that nothing drives margins higher than consistent absorption.
And we are right now operating pretty much on our budget on a community by community basis without anything unusual from a concession standpoint than what would be at historical norm.
And part of look we believe as we drive consistent absorption in these communities we will be able to maximize margin not continue to or see a deterioration of margin.
And right now we are getting consistent absorptions throughout our communities.
Okay.
And then totally different topic the Crown acquisition – Atlanta seem like a market in the past a lot of big builders had shied away from – I think the new general criticism of it had been the segmentation of it.
So could you talk about what you saw on that opportunity and really what you liked about it? We liked about that opportunity was a geographic footprint within the Atlanta market itself that we weren’t serving well that grounded in very good job of serving with the very efficient platform great team of people very happy to have those on as part of our organization.
And Atlanta is a very large housing market in the country.
It will it is on the rebound and permits growing there.
Job growth has been good in Atlanta.
And we are seeing very good demand in a broad range of the submarkets around Atlanta.
And frankly their operating metrics as well as the just our style of operation reminded us so much of our formative days.
And D.R.
Horton the company and we are operating with very little capital and having do rolling option contracts and turning our inventory more quickly.
And so we think that we’ll able to take what they are doing now and transition that over into some of our other operations were perhaps we’re not as entrepreneurially oriented as we use to be or they are.
So great learning experience for us and they protested where well on our Division President meeting that we have in April.
And already began the transfer ideas from them to us and from us to them.
Okay thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you and our next question today is coming from Eric Bosshard from Cleaveland Research Company.
Please precede your few questions.
Thanks.
Two things first of all I’m curios if you could give us some sense of breadth and depth of where that is and the trend that we should expect moving forward obviously you stepped up effectively this quarter.
But I’m trying to figure it are you at a level now that you feel is effective enough or do you see a need to continue to increase the amount of that breadth of the incentive efforts.
Well if you take a look at our net sales orders having increased 32% in value and our backlog having increased 26% in value.
We believe we’re at a really sweet spot.
And we don’t see the real need to increase it significant over where it is today.
And a matter of fact we might be able to decrease at some because obviously we have industry leading sales increases closing increases and backlog increases.
So we are far head of our competition at this stage.
And at the same time its very difficult to make general comments about it.
We can talk overall – overall we are very pleased with where we are and we are hitting our expectations but it’s really managed community-by-community.
So there will be communities where we can led off on incentives and raised prices and improved margin that will be others – where we will have to increase.
But in general the overall results of what we done collectively across all our communities.
We are pleased with the pace that we’re at and overall wouldn’t expect to have to increase it from here.
Great and then just within that – I know you commented that a component of those incentives were invested for the completions in this current quarter that would have showed up in these financials.
I just trying to get sense of how much the incentive investment would have shown in the gross margin in this current quarter versus how much is yet to show in the closings that will come in the coming quarter? Sure Eric.
That 33% of the homes we sold this quarter were actually close to this quarter as well.
So I kind of said that backwards.
That sold and closed in the same quarter was 33% of our closing.
And then the second question interested in the strategic thinking at this point in a cycle with land purchases and how you are thinking about – the desire the demand to add more land to inventory I know that you continue to be active there.
But how are you thinking about that in terms of the magnitude and if the type of land that you are acquiring and that’s changing at all.
Well as we said on the conference call the vast majority of our spend was associated with just replacing lots that we have rolled through roll off over the course of the past two quarters to three quarters and rest of those actually on land development spend which was on developing loss that we had already purchased the land on.
So we believe again we have a total of 178 000 – 175 000 total lots and that’s about a 4 point – eight or nine year supply based upon on our trailing 12 month sales.
So we feel like that we are in a very very strong position that we are not out there in marketplace today paying higher price for land that we’ve got a great land inventory as we said quarter-after-quarter with that very very low cost basis in it.
So we are being very conservative on that land purchasing right now.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning all.
Good morning.
So pretty exciting quarter here.
You guys result obviously on a company basis reflect your initiatives whether it's Express or the numerous acquisitions.
Yet I wonder if you have an adjective an early one Don for 15 given.
I think income lack of income is a big and that’s missing this time but if you're looking at 20% gross margin I heard it a lot longer-term.
Can you talk about how you're responding and if Bill I know you are doing it community by community but I think that – markets like Sacramento and Phoenix were new sales are down rising existing inventory those are once distressed markets could you talk about what's happening there from your perspective and contrast that with the new home sales number today that had the South obviously Texas is a big number in there where you're having down sales there which obviously you are having job growth and income growth.
So you do you really view that market more as supply constraint and could you contrasted with the distressed market please.
Thank you.
Well first of all I’m going to state…  That was first question…  And I’m going to answer the way I’ve been answering here for the last quarter or actually the last four or five quarters.
I do not want to get into specific markets and talk about the strength or weaknesses in the individual market and yes I read the same things about Sacramento and Phoenix and those different markets and we are experiencing pretty much what everybody else is experiencing in those markets.
So they are both difficult markets.
But clearly in Texas when you look at our south central region in the sales we’re reporting clearly we are not down in Texas clearly we are up substantially in our sales in Texas.
So we would be – that would be gaining market share for us in Texas.
We haven’t had time to actually look at the new home sales numbers and they came out the minute our call started.
That being said Ken I mean we are battled a lot of times when we see it because it doesn’t necessarily look the same as what we are seeing in our internal results for those period.
Okay that’s fair and I do understand it’s just there is obviously several different markets occurring.
How about this then? Given what you’ve talked about and I appreciate the sequential breakdown in gross margin.
With price flattening cost going up generically it’s all pace.
Can you talk about the spread this quarter and last quarter relative to units closed from backlog versus spec units with you guys drive a lot of volume through? Thank you.
Spec versus build jobs as we’ve said in the last couple of quarters.
We’re getting closer to our normal spread we’re a little bit lower margins on specs and than build jobs but the gap is still higher then it has been over the long-term.
So really no concerning trends there.
And same thing as usual for us Ken that about 80% of the homes we closed this quarter were spec.
So when you see our reported gross margin that is essentially our spec gross margin.
I don’t want anyone to get confused we’re trying to explain to you what the historical gross margins have been in the industry 18% to 22%.
And we’re not saying our margins are going to 20% whatever we’re just basically trying to set a reasonable expectation out there right now.
Because we believe that pricing has moderated over the last probably nine months to 12 months.
Costs are definitely increasing as our subcontractors and our vendors continue to try to raise their prices given where they had to take their prices so low during the downturn.
So we’re finding increasing prices with moderating increases in sales prices and we believe that the norm as Bill said earlier we are going to gravitate back to a more normal level certainly 2013 was not a normal level in terms of gross margins and land supply and cost and everything else.
So we believe it’s going to gravitate back to a more traditional level which is 20% gross margins.
The level will not gravitate back that will increase is our return on inventory.
Return on investment will increase and that is if you want to measure the progress of our strategy and how we execute our business watch our increasing returns on investment quarter-to-quarter-to-quarter over the next couple of years because our plan is for that to increase steadily.
And we believe that returns are much more important to our overall performance and helping the company then one element on the P&amp;L then gross margin is returns.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Jay McCanless from Sterne Agee.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning everyone.
First question I have with this focus on a 20% community level of return is that means that the 10 000 specs this quarter is probably the top for the cycle?  We are not called anything on cycle.
But clearly we drive as Jessica said 80% of our closing come from spec.
So clearly we prepare for a volume level and our spec are an indicator of what our expectations are.
But we don’t believe we are at a peak of cycle at all.
We are just out there competing in the market and responding market by market.
As a matter of fact we strongly believe the market will gradually grow and perhaps in a year or two grow even faster simply because the part of the market that's underserved and largely it's underserved because of the ASP is the entry-level buyer and also the mortgage underwriting standards are still high relative to where they have been in the past.
I expect mortgage underwriting standards to moderate hopefully not back to the level they were back end in 2004 2005 and 2006 that we believe that the underwriting standards will be moderated some and by virtue of us being able to offer Express homes 156 000 current ASP and if we get any relief on the mortgage underwriting we think the home building business is ready to take off especially as it applies to the entry-level buyer.
That kind of – into my second question because I think this is to disconnect all those we are trying to get to because from the outside looking and right now you guys are cutting back on you land spending you are increasingly pushing out your absorption to try to push them up even on land that may not be in the best markets right now but then you are coming back and saying that you think that there is growth ahead for the homebuilding industry.
I mean is that plus this change in language from the last conference call to this conference call where you are talking much more about return on the inventory rather than stable gross margins that you discussed last quarter.
There is a disconnect there that I think we are all trying to figure out what changed from the last conference call to now?  Hey Jay.
On your land – comment about land we are not decreasing our land investment we are maintaining what we believe is that adequate substantial land investment around 179 000 lots owned and controlled 125 000 lots owned.
So we are replacing we bought early in the cycle we believe that that level will support double-digit growth on the top line which is still our expectation.
We’ve always been focused on return we’ve always been focused on balancing our volume and our pricing to optimize our returns.
As we move through the spring and we’ve adjusted incentives the gross margin line has adjusted but at the same time we believe that’s more than balanced by our increase in volume.
And so we are not pulling back there is really been no shift from that perspective which essentially delivering stronger returns on the investments we’ve made.
And I said earlier in the conference call and I said this for three of four quarters on a row we’ve made really really good land buys early in the market we’ve about 4.7 year supply of random lots today and we’ve got about a 2.4 year supply of finished lots today all based up on a trailing 12-month sales space of about 27 000 units.
So we think that it’s incredibly strong statement to say that we don’t have to be forcing ourselves on the land side like some of our competitors are and having to go out and buy a land today.
We got adequate lands at great cost basis.
As far the return side of the business we have looked at our business upside down and sidewise and there is one thing that we’ve concluded.
We concluded the good gross margin as a good thing but if you are only generating one net sale for subdivision with a 25% gross margin that’s not nearly as well as generating a 16% gross margin with return of sales for month in the subdivision.
So our focus is on how do we improve our return on inventory because that’s the bottom line that’s the best way we can increase our share holder value is that by consistently receiving a solid return on inventory not necessarily having an arbitrary gross margin levels that has a very low return on it.
Okay.
Thank you for the explanation.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</strong> Hey good morning guys.
I wanted to – I wanted to kind of dig into the incentive question here a little bit as well.
When your folks were thinking about this back in March looking ahead to this quarter I wanted to get understanding of what you were seeing on the ground that led to change in your thinking at this point because obviously demand has been slow for about a year ago.
If you think about incentives they can lower price.
and I think you made it up very well and clearly very successful with the amount of order growth you’ve got.
If affordability is stretched then the incentives of reducing price can obviously spur some sales.
if you have skittish buyers then offering incentives can probably bring them in just diverting traffic from competitors more from the resale market.
so what were you seeing in the ground thinking about in that those terms that led you to the correct conclusion that if we increase our incentives a little bit we will be able to generate such a significant increase in sales like you did? Let’s go back to one thing that really drove our incentives and a lot of those have to deal with David Auld coming up here and spending some time analyzing where we were and what we were doing.
But he is known for years that we needed to hit the absorption level that we have projected when we funded a land deal and we have been reluctant and sometimes reticent to drive those absorptions at that level they were projected to be because we’re trying to hold to a specific gross margin.
And we’ve included that having a specific gross margin in the subdivision and not being to able to turn our inventory as frequently as we need to is not exactly the most optimum return on our money.
so what really drove our incentives not necessarily the market not necessarily what we saw in the market what drove our incentives was we are committed to hitting our absorptions and we believe by hitting our absorptions that we can deliver a higher return on inventory and a better return for investors.
so that’s what drove our incentives.
And so Nishu whatever that takes on a community-by-community basis it will let to it is what it is because we’re going to do what we need to do to hit that targeted ROI.
Inc.</strong> No I understand all that.
and your folks of the Express did pretty well.
What I was trying to ask is to like something even from buyer perspective if it’s a – if it’s more of a unique luxury community than affordability is probably not the constraint.
so an incentive doesn’t work but if it’s an entry-level community where there are four competitor communities or they are distressed properties perhaps to look at our single family homes for rent and incentive makes it more affordable maybe it gives the person more confidence.
So I was trying to understand what you saw in the ground from a buyer behavior perspective clearly made the right call because your volumes increased so much.
so I was trying to understand from a little bit of a different angle? Well I’m not so sure that I agree with your comments that it doesn’t – the incentives don’t drive the high ends as much as at both the low end because I can say as we were selling Emerald homes or even our normal D.
R.
Horton someone coming in and looking at the $289 000 average sales price home or a $655 000 average sales price Emerald home.
They are looking for the best deal and so as a result incentives do drive that into the market as well as driving incentives us on the low end of the market.
Inc.</strong> Okay got it.
That’s helpful.
The 20% return on inventory that you’ve been mentioning in the return on capital I was wondering if you could – it sounds like you are describing the internal metric and the external metric.
So I was wondering if you could just give us a little bit more detail on that the return on inventory the 20% is that like the divisional metric that’s – are you asking the divisional managers to focus on what’s in that and then that kind of corporate level metric how are you defining that? Yes it is at our division level it’s on an annual basis is the pretax income that division generates divided by the average inventory balance.
And just to give you where we are currently today we are sitting at around 13.5% that is our run rate on our internal ROI and so that target is to get that our guys get our divisions up to 20% or better.
On a company wide level return on invested capital obviously that’s a very well calculation obviously to the extend that we do a better job internally with our guys at ROI our return on invested capital will be better for the company which you can just as easily simply look at return on inventory for us look at pretax income divided by our average inventory for the company as well and it would be pretty similar.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Please proceed with your question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Yes I was wondering if you could talk about what kind of earnings growth do you think the double-digit revenue growth that you mentioned will translate in? Well we would hope to grow our profits faster than our revenue pace.
And as we generate returns faster returns faster cash flows that we could redeploy into the business faster than we’ve been able to in the past then we would expect that earnings growth to be able to continue to grow faster.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay.
So just a follow-up on that is the main driver of that earning growth is going to be lower SG&amp;A then because the gross margin relative to where it’s been is declining? I’m sorry you cutout just a little bit there.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Sorry just to follow-up is the main driver of getting to that faster than the double-digit revenue growth in earning is the main driver are going to be lower SG&amp;A since the gross margin is a headwind going forward? There would certainly be some leverage there as well but as you turn your inventory faster and redeploy redeploy it faster than there is simply more capital available on an ongoing basis to generate growth and profits over the long-term.
This is a long-term measurement that you could be looking at.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay are you willing to comment on what you would expect for operating and free cash flow in the fourth quarter? Yes we don’t make specific quarter comments on that but it can be volatility on a quarter-to-quarter basis but what we would comment on as we expect our operating cash flow metric to continue to improve here and out returns to continue to improve.
And our goal is to get to a point where we are both growing the company growing revenues at double-digit pace while improving our returns in and getting to a positive cash flow position.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> And just to follow-up do you think the fourth quarter operating and free cash flow are likely to be positive.
In other words more cash flow generated from home sales then to replenish inventory Again we’re not going to comment on one quarter of cash flows but it's certainly possible but it's that we’re not going to comment on one quarter cash flows measures.
Specifically our goal is in fiscal year 2015 free cash flow and have free cash flow at an increasing amount and every fiscal year there after as our long-term goal.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  And just a clarification on the 20% gross margin is that inclusive of the purchase accounting charges for the next three quarters or that’s before that.
Yes inclusive.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Okay thanks a lot.
Thank you our next question is comes from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning.
Good ASP performance you are hitting tough comps in the back half of the year.
What's your thoughts on pricing how should we think of ASP performance going forward.
Stable to slightly improvement in general.
Again we’re in a – what we believe is a relative stable environment is going to depend on geographic mix and product mix obviously but we're not seeing dramatic price decreases and also we would expect relatively stable environment  Would you quantify that as mid single-digit high single-digit or low single-digit? That’s a hard one Bob just because we have three different product types now in terms of our brands and we don’t know what the market’s going to deliver so we’re going to stay we’re just similar to slightly up.
Cool.
Understood.
13.5% on the way to 20% what it your mind just for trajectory for that to happen what has to fall into place to close the gap? Thanks We need to continue to hit our unit absorptions on a week by week basis and each subdivision and that's the best way – currently as ramp 13% to 14% our goal is 20% and that will probably take two or three year time period for us to achieve that but it's hitting those of absorption net per week per subdivision on a consistent basis as David said.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Buck Horne from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys I apologize for the late question going over a quick clarification I just want to be sure that they were clear that the order count the 25% growth in the order count reported.
Does that include the 431 homes acquired from Crown in the quarter?   No not.
Their opening backlog is not included in the 25% order growth.
Any of those sales from Crown included in the 25% I guess… The sales we made post the acquisition to the end of the quarter 296 sales I believe we’re included in that 25% order growth.
Okay but otherwise it’s clean.
Okay and what was the community count X the Crown acquisition or the active community count.
We were up 7% on year-over-year basis without Crown.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Jim Krapfel from Morningstar.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
How much were cost per square foot up in the quarter.
Our cost per square foot were up year-over-year I have that somewhere.
Sorry 8.3%.
Okay and then what’s your forward outlook on labor do you expect some moderation and labor inflation there and then also in terms of land.
To look out maybe two years based on where you underwritten plan holding all else how much would you expect there to be gross margin decrement just from that the higher price land going to cost itself.
Thanks.
Right now we are seeing more of an impact I’d say on the labor side and our land still continues to be a benefit because we were early movers and in terms of our stick and brick costs we are seeing some pressure on the material side.
But more so on the labor side its specifically in those local markets where we’ve seen pretty good growth in volumes.
We think we moderate our labor costs as clearly were 40% larger and the second builder and we believe those kinds of volumes are going to help control our costs much better that our competition.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Joel Locker from FBN Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</strong> Hi guys.
Just a commenting on the community count if you include Crown just at the quarter end what was your community count up year-over-year third quarter last year and then sequentially also.
Sure Joel.
We were up about 11% including Crown and sequentially we were flat.
Inc.</strong> You are flat? And that was that was the quarter and community count not the average community count? We will talk about in terms of our average and just to give a good representation and let me correct myself with Crown sequentially we are up 4%.
Inc.</strong> You are up 4%.
And 11% year-over-year.
Yes.
Inc.</strong> And then just last question on what was your dollar amount of customer deposits you had at third quarter end.
If its one second.
Inc.</strong> Customer deposits.
About $53 million.
Inc.</strong> All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Housing Research Centre.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good job on the orders.
Thank you.
Wanted to ask you I guess if you could kind of spec little bit more you are rationale for doing acquisitions at this point in time and how view them I guess in the future do you think the industry needs more consolidation that be more rationale? Well frankly the way we have – Mike speaks specifically as to the acquisitions but generally speaking we are looking for builders who fit well within our business model who have a very efficient operations and also some people who – we can learn something from and just because we are the largest builder doesn’t – obviously we don’t have all the answers and lot of these entrepreneurial builders that Mike Murray is been working with truly have some unique ideas or certainly some ideas to remind us of the way we used to be.
So as a result I think that we are looking at been supplementing our existing markets on a number of situations and continuing to grow our market share in each of these markets as we continue to grow our market share in each one of our markets like we are in Atlanta we get better cost and both on the labor side as well as on the material side and most importantly on the land side going forward.
Sorry Alex we have a we look builder by builder at different opportunities and look for different geographies different customer segments and were different capabilities to add to our existing platform looking all the time for a good cultural fit.
There is no set recipe or formula for what works and the motivation of the sellers also a big factor in whether we’ll we have the successful transaction or not.
But it’s not something were driven or compel to do.
But it’s a good opportunity that we can take advantage of – it’s going to make sense for us to do those.
Got it.
And then I guess a separate question maybe for Jessica do you some type of community counts or percentage of your over all communities that are in Emerald and Express as a percentage of total or just some absolute numbers.
No Alex.
I mean we haven’t disclosed our community count and right now we are just talking about how many markets were offering Emerald and Express in.
Thank you.
We’ve reached end of our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any further closing comments.
Thank you.
I want to remind all of our D.R.
Horton employees and especially our sales people that we do not need to be deterred from our mission.
We have a revised business model that is going to be very accretive and additive to our shareholders and we need to continue to focus on our mission.
We are currently in a trailing 12 months; we closed 40% more homes and the second largest builder.
We want to continue to dominate our markets and to be as profitable as we can in each one of our markets but most importantly what you can do for us as you know to set your absorptions on a community by community basis so that we can get our return on inventory from its current 13% to 14% up to 20% because that’s the best thing we can do for ourselves and our shareholders.
So we thank you very much.
Let's kick tail on the rest of the year.
Thank you.
That does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Good morning and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call of D.R.
Horton America’s Builder the largest builder in the United States.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Jessica Hansen Vice President of Investor Relations for D.
R.
Horton.
Please go ahead Jessica.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning and welcome to our call to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal 2014 financial results.
Before we get started today’s call may include comments that constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based upon reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton’s annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For your convenience this morning’s earnings release can be found on our website at investor.drhorton.com and we plan to file our 10-K within the next week.
Also after the conclusion of our call we will be posting some supplementary historical data that is not readily available on our public filings on the Investor Relations section of our website for your reference.
Now I will turn the call over to David Auld our President and CEO.
Thank you Jessica and good morning.
In addition to Jessica I am pleased to be joined on this call by Mike Murray recently promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Bill Wheat Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Before we review our business and financial results with you I’d like to take a minute to recognize Don Tomnitz on his recent retirement and thank him for his leadership advice and support over the years.
On behalf of the entire D.R.
Horton team I’d like to congratulate him on an outstanding carrier of 31 years with the company 15 years as our CEO.
During Don’s tenure we grew to become the largest homebuilder in the United States and have maintained that position for over 12 years.
We look forward to still working with Don in a consulting role as he continues to be involved in a number of areas of our operations.
Now onto our results.
In 2014 while demand for new homes across most of our markets remained relatively stable we generated greater than 20% growth in both revenue and pre-tax income by successfully leveraging our platform as the nation’s largest and most geographically diverse homebuilder.
Our national market share is the largest in company history.
We have closed 46% more homes than any other builder in the recently reported 12 month period and we are positioned to generate further growth.
In the fourth quarter our homes sold and closed increased 38% and 25% respectively and we had another good quarter of profitability with $250.8 million of pre-tax income and a 10.1% pre-tax operating margin.
Our increase community count well stocked supply of land plots and homes provide us with a strong competitive position.
Based on a 29% increase in the value of our sales backlog and our October sales growth that exceeded 20% on a year-over-year basis we expect further double-digit growth in home closings revenues and pre-tax profits in 2015.
Our continued strategic focus is to leverage our competitive position to generate double-digit growth in both revenue and pre-tax profits while improving our cash flow and increasing our returns.
Mike? Net income for the fourth quarter increased to 19% to $166.3 million or $0.45 per diluted share compared to $139.5 million or $0.40 per diluted share in the year ago quarter.
Our consolidated pre-tax income increased 24% to $250.8 million in the fourth quarter compared to $202.8 million in the year ago quarter and home building pre-tax income increased 25% to $236.6 million compared to $189.4 million.
Our fourth quarter home sales revenues increased 33% to $2.4 billion on 8 612 homes closed up from $1.8 billion on 6 866 homes closed in the year ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $279 100 up 6% compared to the prior year primarily driven by a 4% increase on our average home size and a small increase on our average sales price per square foot.
Bill?  The value of our net sales orders in the fourth quarter increased 41% from the year ago quarter to $2 billion and homes sold increased 38% to 7 135 homes on a 10% increase in average active selling communities.
Our average sales price on net sales orders in the fourth quarter increased 2% to $281 700.
The cancellation rate for the quarter was 28% down from 31% in the year ago quarter.
The value of our backlog increased 29% from a year ago to $2.9 billion with an average sales price per home of $289 100 and homes in backlog increased 21% to 9 888 homes.
Our backlog conversion rate for the fourth quarter was 76%.
We expect backlog conversion rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 to be around 75% which is higher than our long-term first quarter average.
We also expect our home closings for the full year of fiscal 2015 to increase 20% to 30% compared to fiscal 2014 based on the current relatively stable housing market conditions.
Please note that percentage changes in our average active community counts and our quarterly net sales orders by region for fiscal 2013 and ‘14 will be included in the supplementary data we referenced earlier which can be found on the Investor Relations section of our website after this call.
Jessica.
We continue to experience strong growth in profitability in the heart of our business in our D.R.
Horton branded communities which accounted for the substantial majority of our sales and closings this quarter.
We are also pleased with the progress and performance of the rollouts of our Express Homes and Emerald Homes brands.
Our Express Homes brand which is targeted at true entry level buyer focused primarily on affordability is now being offered in 24 markets and eight states with the significant majority of our Express sales and closings to-date coming from Texas and the Carolinas.
This quarter Express accounted for 10% of our homes sold 6% of homes closed and 4% of home sales revenue.
The average closing price of an Express Home in the fourth quarter was $169 000.
For the year Express accounted for 7% of our homes sold 5% of homes closed and 3% of home sales revenue.
Customer response to our affordable Express product offerings has been extremely positive and we expect to have Express Homes communities open in the majority of our markets by the end of fiscal 2015.
Emerald Homes our brand for higher end move up and luxury communities is now available in 34 markets across 14 states.
In the fourth quarter 7% of our homes closed were priced higher than $500 000 accounting for 17% of our home sales revenue up from 5% of homes closed and 13% in revenues in the same quarter last year.
For the year 6% of our homes closed were priced higher than $500 000 accounting for 16% of our home sales revenue up from 4% in homes closed and 10% in revenues in fiscal 2013.
We plan to continue to steadily introduce new Emerald Homes communities across more of our markets in fiscal 2015.
Mike?  Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the fourth quarter was 20.5% down 20 basis points sequentially from the third quarter.
The sequential margin decrease was primarily driven by a 70 basis point impact from cost increases in excess of sales price increases and changes in our product mix.
The decrease was partially offset by a margin increase of 30 basis points from lower relative warranty and litigation cost 10 basis points from lower interest and property tax cost and 10 basis points from a lower purchase accounting impact from acquisitions.
Our fourth quarter incentive level was essentially flat with the third quarter.
Compared to the prior year our home sales gross margin decreased 140 basis points primarily to due to the combined effect of cost increases in excess of sales price increases and higher incentives.
As we have discussed on previous calls our incentive levels were extremely low in most markets during fiscal 2013 and early 2014 but incentives returned to normal levels in many markets during the course of 2014 with significant variations across our communities.
With the very strong performance of our express communities so far we expect this brand to grow quickly as a percentage of our product mix which will help us generate strong growth in both revenues and profits.
But will likely bring our average gross margin percentage down in fiscal 2015 from our current level.
In the current stable housing environment we generally expect our average home sales gross margin to be around 20% with quarterly fluctuations that can range from 19% to 21% due to product and geographic mix and the relative impact of warranty litigation and interest cost.
As a reminder our reported gross margins include all of our interest cost.
Historical detail on the components impacting our home sales gross margin will be included in the supplementary data on our website after this call.
Bill?  Home building SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $241 million compared to $186.6 million in the prior year quarter.
As a percentage of home building revenues our SG&amp;A improved 40 basis points to 9.9% this quarter compared to 10.3% in the prior year quarter.
Fiscal 2014 SG&amp;A as a percentage of home building revenues was 10.6% compared to 10.7% in fiscal 2013.
During 2014 we made significant investments in our SG&amp;A infrastructure to support our current and expected growth and we expect to leverage these SG&amp;A investments in 2014 and move closer to our annual SG&amp;A goal of 10% of home building revenues.
In the first two quarters of fiscal 2015 we expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of home building revenues to be seasonally higher than in our third and fourth quarters as we typically deliver fewer homes in the first half of the fiscal year than in the second half.
Jessica?  Financial services’ pretax income for the quarter increased 6% to $14.2 million from $13.4 million in the year ago quarter.
88% of our mortgage companies loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our home building operation.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 42% of the mortgage company volume this quarter down from 45% in the year-ago quarter.
Borrowers originating loans with our mortgage company had an average FICO score of 719 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 89%.
Select historical data from our mortgage company including loan product mix will also be included in the supplementary data on our website after this call.
David? At the end of September we had 20 600 homes in inventory of which 1 500 were models 11 200 were spec homes and 3 900 of the specs were completed.
Our construction in progress and finished homes inventory increased by $159 million during the quarter.
Our fourth quarter investment in lots land and development totaled $618 million of which $353 million was to replenish finished lots and land and $265 million was for land development.
In 2014 we invested $2.3 billion in land lots and development.
At September 30 2014 our lot portfolio consisted of 125 000 owned lots with an additional 59 000 lots controlled through option contracts.
69 000 of our lots are finished with 32 000 owned and 37 000 optioned.
Our 184 000 total lots owned and controlled put us in a strong competitive position in the current housing market with a sufficient lot supply to support strong growth in sales and closings in future periods.
As we invest in new communities for all three of our brands our main underwriting criteria is a minimum annual pretax return on inventory of 20% defined as pre-tax income divided by average inventory over the life of the community.
We expect each community regardless of brand to achieve this target by optimizing the balance between absorptions margins and inventory levels that is most appropriate for that community.
For reference our total home building pretax return on inventory has improved 560 basis points over the past two years from 5.5% at 2012 to 11.1% in 2014 and we expect to make further improvement on this metric in 2015 as we improve our pretax profitability and manage our inventory levels efficiently.
Mike?  During the fourth quarter we recorded $3.2 million in land options charges for write-offs of earnest money and deposits -- for earnest money deposits and due diligence cost for projects that we do not intend to pursue.
We also recorded $18.1 million of impairment charges of which $15.7 million were in our East region primarily related to long held inactive and underperforming projects in the Washington D.
C.
area that we intend to sale to improve returns by redeploying the capital into more productive assets.
Our inactive land held for development of $332.8 million at the end of the year represents 14 000 loss down 17% from June and down 33% from year ago.
We are proactively working through these older unproductive assets to redeploy the capital thereby improving the cash flows and returns.
We continue to formulate our operating plans for each of our remaining inactive land parcels and we expect that our land held for development balance will continue to decline during fiscal 2015.
We will continue to evaluate our active land parcels for potential impairments.
These evaluations may results in additional impairment charges in future periods but the timing and magnitude of these charges will fluctuate as they have in the past Bill? At September 30th our homebuilding liquidity included $632.5 million of unrestricted homebuilding cash and $582 million available capacity on our revolving credit facility.
We had $300 million of cash borrowings and $92.7 million of letters of credit outstanding on the revolver.
Our gross homebuilding leverage was 39.4% and our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash was 34.5%.
During the quarter we've repaid $137.9 million of our senior notes at their maturity in September.
Our homebuilding debt maturities in fiscal 2015 are $158 million and our public notes outstanding at September 30 totaled $3 billion.
Our fiscal year end shareholders' equity balance was $5.1 billion and book value per share was $14.04 up 12% from a year ago Jessica? Looking forward we would like to highlight some of our future expectations which are based on the current relatively stable housing market conditions.
In fiscal 2015 we expect to close between 34 500 and 37 500 homes and generate consolidated revenues of between $9.5 billion and $10.5 billion.
We anticipate our home sales gross margin for the full year in fiscal 2015 will range from 19.5% to 20.5% with potential quarterly fluctuation outside of this range.
We estimate our homebuilding SG&amp;A expense to range from 10% to 10.3% of homebuilding revenues for the full year with the first two quarters of the year being higher than this range and third and fourth quarters at the low end or below the annual range.
We expect our financial services operating margin to range from 25% to 30%.
We are forecasting our fiscal 2015 income tax rate to be between 35% and 36% and our diluted share count to be approximately 370 million shares.
For our first fiscal quarter 2015 we expect our number of homes closed to approximate the beginning backlog conversion rate of around 75%.
We anticipate our first quarter home sales gross margin will be around 19.5% to 20% subject to potential fluctuations from product mix warranty and interest cost.
And we expect our homebuilding SG&amp;A in the first quarter to be around 11% of revenues David? In closing our fourth quarter and 2014 growth in sales closings and profits in relatively stable market is a result of the strength of our operating platform and we are excited about our opportunities ahead.
This quarter the value of our sales and closings increased by 41% and 33% respectively and we generated another solid quarter of profitability with consolidated pretax income of $250.8 million on $2.5 billion of revenue.
For the year the value of our sales closings and backlog increased by 27% 30% and 29% respectively and consolidated pretax income increased 24% to $814.2 million on $8 billion of revenue.
We also made considerable progress this year toward our long-term goal of producing positive cash flow from operations.
Whilst still growing the business our cash used in operations of $661 million improved by $570 million from last year's level and we expect further substantial progress in our cash flow performance in 2015.
We remained focused on growing both our revenues and pre-tax profit at a double-digit pace while improving our cash flows and increasing our returns.
We are well positioned to do this with our solid balance sheet industry leading market share broad geographic footprint diversified product offerings across our three brands attractive finish lots and land position and most importantly our tremendous operational team across the country.
I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued hard work and accomplishments this year and we look forward to working together to continue growing and improving our operations to make 2015 an even better year.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now host questions.
Thank you.
At this time we will be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question today is coming from Steven Kim from Barclays.
Please proceed with your question Hey guys good results.
Wishing you guys a proud Veterans Day.
I wanted to ask you a quick question regarding incentives.
I think you had indicated that your incentives were flat sequentially which I think is going to perceived positively by folks who have been concerned that you are going to be ramping your incentives pretty significantly.
You have also talked about increasing the share of your business your volumes that’s going to be coming from Express and I was wondering if can talk specifically about your strategy around incentives as you have seen Express evolving and whether you see the approach you are going to be using for incentives being different for the Express communities then for the Emerald or the Horton communities and what that’s is going to mean for incentives going forward?  Steve it’s David.
The market we find the market to be relatively stable and in fact we had significant pricing power last year in Q1 Q2 we saw that slide down increased incentives but really just back to normal market type conditions and right now we feel pretty good about kind of where we are in the market and what’s taken place out there.
And in terms of our approach to you know incentives across our brand Steven we don’t see a significant change from where we have been in the past.
We manage our incentives at community by community level and we go in regardless a brand with our business plan for each community and we look to achieve that and if depending on how the market responds then we adjust our incentive levels.
I think that would apply to our approach really across all three of our brands.
Clearly with the Express we are providing a tremendous value to the buyer in the marketplace today and so we are not seeing a significant level of incentives across the board in Express.
Community by community we are going to manage to what that market is but within Express we are seeing from market acceptance and a buyer that’s been underserved.
Yeah that’s great.
That’s exactly what we are looking for.
The second question relates to the use of speculative building and I think you guys in your prepared remarks gave us some numbers.
I wanted to just generally though speak about or ask about what you are seeing in the marketplace and what’s your intention going forward is with respect to the role of specular building.
Some of your peers have indicated that they are sort expecting to go into the spring selling season with a higher level of spec activity with the hope of capturing those buyers who have chosen to sell their house first before trying to sign a contract for another one and so were looking for quick move in.
I guess A do you generally believe or agree the presence of this kind of buyer is -- would make having more specs than normal historically a good strategy entering spring selling season? Are you preparing for that and are you seeing your competitors taking steps to prepare for that yet?  Have not really seen significant competition out in the market from other builders on the spec build program.
That has always been what we've done.
We've always tried to look at the next quarter out and align ourselves for what we believe demand will be based upon what we're seeing that day.
Spec building is a good consistent way to manage communities and drive absorption that's just something we've always done.
And as a reminder Steve about 70 to 80% of our closings each quarter are specs.
So when you're looking at our reported gross margin that's essentially a spec gross margin.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning Ken.
Good morning Ken.
So a rather different approach to the forward year this year.
The growth that you gave in terms of your closings and I think everyone is going to be happy it sounds like that you are disclosing community count is that accurate.
We're not actually disclosing absolute community count but we are giving you two years of historical data of what our community counts done in percentage terms at a regional level.
Okay.
Then what is the underlying and I apologize if I missed it with all the numbers you're giving but the 34 500 to 37 000 unit closing what does that imply for community count growth? In terms of community count growth we actually expect the increase in our community count we’re at 10% this quarter we expect that to moderate in to 2015 and we could be relatively flat on year-over-year basis for the whole year.
Any increases would be more in the mid to single digit range but clearly our expectation as we have shown in the last couple of quarters is for improvement in our absorptions per community and that’s really what we plan to drive the 20% to 30% increase in our closings next year.
Interesting.
So that's actually largely coming from absorption.
So related to that and David we had talked about this earlier in the year with the success you guys have been having with Express because it’s going to be rising as a percent of orders and closings if you could highlight the kind of the dynamic between the volume you're seeing and the revenue.
So I think you basically said it was like 5% in closings 3% of revenue.
How does one think about the incremental flow through of you get the volumes but since it's less ASP the margins can be the same but you're pulling less dollars through? I mean do you think this 1.5 million starts certain share as it relates to single family homes is this going to happen at a lot lower price point that Express is a characteristic of? Well I can tell you our model our thought process us we're going to grow every brand.
Now the Express brand is going to grow faster because we're introducing a new product into an underserved market across the country and there is a tremendous amount of pent-up demand that we're picking up with that brand.
We're not growing Express at the expense of Horton.
The Horton brand will continue to grow and the Emerald brand really were just rolling out still.
I mean it's got a lot upside.
Yes I think you're heading to a sweet spot there.
Is that -- the average price is it kind of saying did you talk about how much you think the price is down given the business the product mix for next year? I think we're looking going forward Canada at a flat ASP hard to predict because the potential changes in mix that we'll be seeing.
But as David said we're looking to grow all the brands Express growing probably at a faster clip than the other brands but we're still seeing good growth in demand across all brands and still seeing some markets where we have price appreciation which helps to offset a bit of the mix changes.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning and nice quarter.
Thank you.
The first question I had was I guess circling back to Express but asked a little bit of a different way and I think you started to hit on this in talking about community count but with your outlook for growth next year being I guess you're saying primarily driven by an increase in absorption is that going to be primarily driven by the higher mix of Express or is there going to be perhaps growth in certain regions that maybe have a lower ASP or a faster turn.
Just trying to get a sense because to have absorption up 15% 20% or more next year I think that’s probably pretty much ahead of the pack right now in terms of how most of the builders are thinking about ’15 if haven’t articulated it explicitly and so just trying to get a sense is that really the Express Homes initiative or is it a regional mix or do you have a view of certain of the markets that’s a little bit different?  Thank you.
This is David Michael.
I think the Express is certainly a factor in it and regional growth is also a factor.
We’re very strongly positioned right now in Texas and Carolinas and Florida and those are growth markets.
And so we expect to do well or better there than we have in the past and Express as we continue to roll that out we are seeing high unit absorptions there.
So it’s -- that’s why we think overall we’ll see pricing power in certain markets but the Express brand at that price point as it grows and becomes a bigger percentage is going to keep our average sales price pretty much flat and we think that’s a good thing.
Right no it makes sense.
And I guess just circling back on the incentives for a moment just wanted to clarify you said that incentives in the fourth quarter were flat sequentially.
I would presume that was on closings not orders so if that’s correct just trying to get a sense of perhaps on an order basis the orders themselves as you are bringing in the new sales over the past three months were the incentives on those order also relatively stable versus the prior quarter and as a result should we infer that the gross margin for next year coming in a little bit is primarily driven by a mix I think as you have stated.
I think that’s a pretty fair characterization of everything Michael.
Incentives have been flat on the closings that was correct and we are probably seeing a similar flat trend in the sales line right now.
So that has brought us down for the full year margin expectations for next year from where we were in fiscal 2014.
And clearly with Express driving much high absorptions in volume but slightly lower on a gross margin side but as it grows to a bigger mix of our overall business that’s the primary driver for us moderating back to our normal gross margin range of around 20%.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen East from ISI.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
David congratulations on your role.
Thank you Stephen.
If I look at call it your first six weeks or so a couple of different questions one where your first focus and actions have been and then when you look out a bit longer what vision do you see for Horton? Everybody has got their own twist on things so how maybe does your vision differ a little bit from DTs as you move out three five years?  I guess the initial focus is really getting our handle on this public position role Stephen I have always been behind the curtain kind of guy and being pushed out front is different for me.
Three to five years down the road I think my goal is just to continue the excellence companies had focus is on consistency really on a day-by-day subdivision by subdivision execution.
I feel like our position in the industry today is so unique the fact that we have been the largest for as long as we’ve been the largest the geographic footprint that we have it really is if we just execute and do what we can do on a day-to-day basis we should have a great three to five year run.
Okay I appreciate that.
And then different topic if you look at the SG&amp;A your goal has always been 10% and I guess my question here is most builders yourself included have talked a lot about hey during the downturn we've gotten a lot more efficient.
We've been able to do more with less people et cetera.
Why shouldn't we expect in this maybe even in 2015 but why shouldn't we expect that SG&amp;A to drop down below the levels you run in previous cycles? Well I'm probably going to get in trouble for this but that is my expectation.
If we do not because we're more efficient we do have great operators out there the launch of the Emerald Express that we've been through the last couple of years we did have to build some infrastructure and ramp up and I have told all these guys and all the people out there in the field that our expectation is to leverage that position and become more efficient.
So that is my expectation.
The accounts are going to disagree with me.
That might be a little bit longer term view too and not a fiscal '15 call Steven.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Adam Rudiger from Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
David you mentioned in your prepared remarks that I think one of the focus was going to be to improve cash flow.
Operating cash flow was negative for the past three years.
So I was wondering when or if we should expect an inflection point in that and when you actually plan on starting to generate cash?  I think right now we expect to be relatively flat this year.
If the market remains stable or even gives us a little bit more we could beat that.
And flat even cash flow this next year would be an improvement of $660 million.
So that would be a substantial improvement but I think specifically I think we're pretty close to that inflection point.
Yes.
Okay.
Second question was there has been some speculation or percolation I guess on Texas and oil prices and things like that.
I was wondering if you had any comments you wanted to share on what you've been seeing recently.
I know it's pretty early but just any thoughts there would be helpful.
Texas remains strong for us.
I think if oil prices stay down it could soften somewhat but any softening we see in Texas I think low oil prices should create additional demand in the other markets.
So we're Texas based but we're significant in really every market in the country that we want to be in.
So it's pretty good balanced for us.
Could actually be beneficial.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning and really nice quarter.
Just wanted to get some color on the impairment charge of $21 million in the quarter.
I know you had one for $57 million in 3Q.
Any color about this would be great and what should we think about charges going forward? Well Bob the charges we took this quarter were primarily in our Washington D C area.
We had a couple of long lived old projects that we had for a quite well that were inactive and we evaluated the market and had some opportunities to sell those projects and so we're looking to move forward with those redeploy that capital.
We’ve consistently been working through our older land positions bringing most of it into production in our home building operations and most of that not requiring an impairment charge when it comes into operations.
So looking forward we're going to continue to evaluate all these projects in the market that we're in and look to make that capital work for the company as quickly as we can.
When we do elect to sell something when that's the best option for us that has traditionally produced the bigger impairment charges and hard to predict when or if those things will be occurring.
Okay that's helpful and I think it's for Bill.
You guys had a very robust balance sheet net debt to home buildings in the mid 30's.
You're obviously trying to drive better financial performance with 20% ROI inventory.
What's the goal? How should we think about the balance sheet in the context of land spend is going to continue next year.
Looks like you might burn a little cash as you grow the business.
What's your target for net home building debt-to-capital? Thanks and good luck.
You bet.
Thanks Bob.
From a net debt-to-cap we've consistently said we wanted to stay out or below 40% to 45% range.
Clearly we're bit below that right now and we're comfortable in the mid 30's as well and really so as long as we are in a good solid position we have flexibility.
Right now our first priority as we look at our business look at the opportunities in the marketplace to generate returns in our business and that’s going to be the first priority for our investments of capital.
With that being said we feel like we are in a great position in our land position.
So we are not having to grow that position significantly right now.
So right now in terms of land and development expectations spending expectations for fiscal ’15 we would expect that to be relatively flat with fiscal ’14 right now but that will depend also then ultimately on what we see in the sales environment in the spring if things are much stronger than we expect in the spring we might expect -- we might wind up investing more than we did in fiscal ’14 but conversely if you go the other way as well.
So first and foremost we are going to look at the business.
Secondly we will continue to handle our debt obligations as we move forward and continue to pay the dividend.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from David Goldberg from UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks good morning everybody and congratulations David.
Thank you David.
My first question I was wondering if you can get a step back and just think a little bit if you guys just kind of take us through the actual procedure to determine what kind of spec you guys want heading into the next year the spec count now under construction is up 24%-25%.
It’s inline with obviously your kind of closing guidance for fiscal ’15.
But if you kind of go through the mechanics of how you get to that number with your local operators I think that will be helpful in terms of the assumptions and kind of puts and close you put into the process.
Well David I kind of always keep saying this and it gets monotonous but it really does come down to specific demand or expected demand within a community within a sub-market within a division and we build these models for these programs based on our position in that community and what kind of demand or absorption we think it will give us at the margin we want to make.
And so from a very simplistic standpoint and it varies throughout the year but we generally like to have about three months of sales at three various stages of inventory coming out of the ground.
So if it’s a community doing till a month that will be carrying six packs in that community two completed two at frame and two at slab.
And then sale into that inventory supplement sales with build out.
As you go community by community and add it all up that’s how we get to the numbers we get into.
That’s very helpful and just as a follow-up question I was wondering if you can talk about the kind of leverage you are seeing in land on the land acquisition side and what we should expect as you move to more Express series land purchases? I would assume there is little more financial leverage little bit easier to option that land.
So maybe you could talk about kind of what are seeing in the market and what you think that means for the balance sheet as the [patio] shift a little bit more towards Express is that going to be more free cash flow generative as you move forward less free cash flow intensive I guess how we think about it?  I think on the leverage side I mean when there was nobody out there developing lots we -- and there were finished lots on the ground that we could buy at very advantageous prices we ended with a lot of owned lots and one of the prior questions was about focus.
One of the things that I think we need to do is move back to our historical 50-50 owned versus option plots and as developers are coming back into the market one of our primary objective is to maintain develop maintain and support those relationships.
So that we have people to delivering lots in front of us and the high absorption communities the high absorption model of Express it is a perfect place to get some body in front of us doing it.
David we are pretty much down on the 50-50 on our finished lot position and we have made good progress on our overall owned position but we are still not there.
We’re about 68% owned 32% options so we are headed in the right direction to get to that 50-50 split that David mentioned.
We have got some good development partners out there and we are going to try to grow this relationships and strengthen them.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Mike Roxland from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks for taking my questions and congrats on your new role David.
Thank you Mike.
Can you just talk about some of the progress you have made on improving your construction efficiency with respect to the Emerald brand.
Obviously that’s a new brand for you guys and you have experienced I think from growing pains with the product and just wanted to see where you are in the learning curve and how the efficiency in terms of the construction has improved let’s say quarter over the last couple of quarters? I think we are learning that buyer and that market and adjusting different processes and procedures to meet the expectations that that buyer has and I think our original some of the original product we put out we probably were building more for ourselves than for the customer and we are adjusting that and really just drilling down and putting into the houses what that buyer really wants.
And I guess it’s going to create efficiency and improve our overall performance of the brand.
Specifically Mike we haven’t measured the -- we don’t have in front of us the production turn times for each by brand.
So we really can’t comment any specific changes this quarter versus last.
Got you.
But just suffice to say have you seen an improvement in the margins that you are generating from that product relative to a couple of quarters ago?  Yes we have.
Yes as we drill down and understand what that buyer wants we are generating higher margins.
Got you.
And then just last question you mentioned that your incentives were flat quarter-over-quarter.
I think in last quarter you mentioned that you weren’t happy with the absorption pace as you raise your incentive levels.
Is it fair to say now that you are happy with the absorptions that you are seeing on an aggregate basis and that if these continue there is no need for you to discount any further because you are happy with the sales pace overall? We are on plan meeting our absorption targets.
So yes we are happy with where we are right now and so that’s… Yes in total we are certainly pleased with where we are and what we are seeing overall but again we don’t necessarily manage it at a global level.
We’re going to manage at each community.
So we have some communities where we may be cutting back on incentives because we are exceeding our absorption targets some might be right on track some might be a little short.
So we are going to increase incentives.
So but in total absolutely a 38% increase we feel like the aggregate result is definitely in line with where we want to be.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
In terms of input cost just curious if you could talk a little bit about the trended land cost where we are as you are working through your inventory if that is something that’s changing meaningfully? And then also your assumptions in terms of building components and what trends happened there? And then eventually curious on how you think about that how that is matching up with your average selling price expectation for 2015? Sure Eric.
Our land cost has remained relatively flat as a component of the overall cost going into our house.
We called out some of the other things that did impact our margin this quarter but land remained relatively flat.
And in terms of the other input cost on a year-over-year basis we have seen some cost pressures our stick and brick cost on a per square foot basis were up about 5%.
On a year-over-year basis sequentially they are up about 2%.
As you think about those factors into ’15 a year where I think you talked about no real expected change in ASP some of that a function of mix how do you think about that balance between those factors? I think the mix is probably the biggest driver of the flat average sales price.
We do and are experiencing pricing power in a lot of our markets.
Steady as she goes.
Yes consistency is I guess is kind of a right now we are seeing a lot of consistency on the market at the subdivision level at the division level and I think it’s going to be a good year.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks and congratulations to David and Mike on your new roles.
Thank you Nishu.
I wanted to ask first about the October sales trends obviously a strong number 20% plus in the context of what we have been seeing from just the industry in general but somewhat of a slowdown from the pace in the September quarter.
How should we think about that I mean obviously going into year-end I imagine there is a real push.
So is that just month-to-month volatility maybe around the year end or have you seen some slow down into October? Nishu that shows that we get for given more than we normally do on a monthly basis.
But we wanted to give a little bit of color but as we always have said a month does not make a quarter.
So we're letting you know that our October sale phase was strong and we feel good with what we've seen thus far even though we're only 11 days into November and greater than 20% in October.
As David said earlier we're on plan to deliver what is in our business plan and you'll have to wait till January to see what we deliver for the quarter.
I wouldn't read anything special into whether we accelerated or decelerated in October.
I think in general we would still say it's a very good sales environment still a very good sales month for us.
20% was the floor.
Nishu we're looking for consistency month to month.
Okay and second question the 20% return on inventory metric the pretax income divided by the average investment in the community over the life of it.
That sounds like a local at the divisional level.
So I imagine that's not fully loaded with the entire expense structure.
So my question is how would we translate that number to the overall D.R.
Horton corporate level and how -- what is your target for that number? I mean let's say that 20% translates to I don't know to 15ish% what's your target and when would you expect to get there? Nishu first of all definitionally that 20% is a fully loaded number at that community level.
So we look at our project pro formas and performances on a fully burdened basis to drive that 20% average pre-tax return on the inventory investment in that community.
So that will translate up as a goal to the total.
Obviously we're not there yet.
We’re little over 11% on a consolidated basis including any impairments we've taken but to get all the way to 20% on a consolidated basis I don't have a timeline for when it's going to be there? But that is what we're pushing the bar too and that's what we're measuring ourselves against internally.
Steady consistent improvement in the ROI is the goal when we feel like it's we're doing the things today that should achieve steady improvement.
Thank you.
Our next question today is from Michael Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks.
Wanted to ask just as a point of reference if we go back to the mix of communities thinking about the absorption could you give us a sense of just how much of a difference in absorption there is between Express Horton and Emerald? Yeah in general Mike our Express communities on absorption basis is about double our company average ball park which is kind of inline with where our expectations would be and then Emerald is certainly lower than our company average but obviously the dollars per home is much greater.
Got it and then I guess on a related topic than if we think about the margin guide for next year 19.5% to 20.5% is that - I mean I guess what's the biggest delta and I guess you did mention it could be higher or lower than that range quarter-to-quarter what's the biggest driver that you think of that could push it to either the low end or the high end based on what you're seeing today.
I think the fit to low end would be a change in market conditions where right now we've been experiencing stability in the market and slight improvement kind of month-to-month quarter-to-quarter.
We had a reset on values at spring which we responded to with additional incentives.
But since that we're operating kind of on flat waters right now.
And then absent a change in market conditions I really feel the product mix changes as we roll out Express primarily is the wild card in terms of exactly how that translates to margins quarter-to-quarter is probably the biggest driver and is assuming the market stays stable.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Please proceed with your question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong> Yes hi thanks for taking the question.
I was wondering if you can provide some color on what you are seeing in the market if you are seeing less competition for land parcels if there is any geographic color on what you find most attractive and maybe just the average size of new deals you are looking at.
Well competition in the market is always there.
We had a very [brief of] opportunity in 2011 and ’12 really we were the only ones buying.
But since then everybody is back.
Right now we are pretty much in a replacement mode mark-to-market.
The markets that are generating high levels of sales is where we are putting most of the dollars.
And I don’t remember the third part of the question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Average size maybe in terms of number of lots?  Typically we underwrite to a two year cash back program.
So it depends on the absorption that we should be generating out of that on an average.
So it’s 50 to 100 lots probably.
Bruyette &amp; Woods</strong>  Great thanks.
Just secondly a follow-up on the mix of buyer profiles and I apologize if you gave this earlier in the quarter but do you have the mix of orders your first and first time move up?  Sure Jade and we only have that data from the buyers that use our mortgage company which is about 50% of our buyers this quarter roughly and we were at 39% first time homebuyers for the quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Megan McGrath from MKM Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning thanks.
I guess most of my questions have been answered but did want to ask as a follow-up to that last question any thoughts on the recent news from the FHFA and as a follow-up to that I know it’s hard to some times to get data on those who didn’t come through the system but any sense of what’s the bigger issue for your buyer is it down payment typically or is it you know more a DTI issue? Thanks.
In terms of the FHA FHA clearly there is a lot of talk going on in terms of our assumption as we look at our business.
We are not assuming any change in the mortgage environment just the same current mortgage lending standards.
Any changes going forward we will deal with those as they come.
In terms of the biggest issue Megan really anything we tell you is going to primarily anecdotal but we do hear DTI is one of the bigger categories that our buyers struggle with today which is why Express we feel has been very positive for us.
We can’t control our buyers debt level but we can control the sales price of the houses we are selling and so if we can help with that piece of the debt to income metric we have seen a lot of success on that front.
Great thanks helpful.
And I guess just as a follow-up on the balance sheet and capital allocation it feels like going through this earnings season we have seen a bit of a higher level of announcements around share buyback from homebuilders.
Certainly with your announcement on expect to share count it doesn’t sound like that’s something that you are looking at but maybe give your thoughts on why it’s something that you don’t feel is something you want to pursue?  Right now we still see tremendous opportunities to invest in our business.
We are generating improving returns.
We are seeing the opportunity to grow at an improving return.
So right now that is our highest priority.
We would never rule out buybacks at some point in the future but right now we still see great opportunities in our business.
Thank you.
Our final question today is coming from Alex Barron from Housing Research Center.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks and good morning and congratulations on the quarter and everybody in their new roles.
Thank you Alex.
I wanted to focus a little bit on Express I am sorry if you already covered it and I missed it.
But I think you said that deliveries -- or the orders were 10% and the deliveries were l believe 7%.
How do you guys see the what percentage are you guys kind of thinking or aiming at for 2015 and also what kind of sales rates I guess are you guys thinking or experiencing so far in Express and last question on Express how many communities do you have currently and how many do you expect to have by the end of next year?  Sure Alex.
As we said for the quarter that Express is 10% of our home sales and 6% of our closing.
For the full fiscal year it was 7% of our home sales and 5% of our closings and we don’t have any set targets for where that’s going to go in fiscal 2015 but we would continue to expect we would continue to expect to ramp-up our community openings in ’15 and have the sales and closings follow.
We have talked about over the next few years we think Express could be everywhere from 25% to 30% of our unit.
And do you guys track the number of [new home] buyers that you have seen so far in this quarter or this year?  We don’t Alex.
But do you expect that to be a meaningful size of your buyers I guess through the Express range?  You know that certainly possible Alex and certainly where we are on the calendar there is more of those that have the potential to come back in to the market but that’s not something we are specifically targeting necessarily.
Thank you.
We’ve reached end of our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any further or closing comments.
Thank you Kevin.
We appreciate everyone’s time on the call today and look forward to speaking with you again in January to share our first quarter results.
Thank you everybody.
Thank you.
That does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call of D.R.
Horton America’s Builder the largest builder in the United States.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to Miss Jessica Hansen Vice President of Investor Relations for D.
R.
Horton.
Thank you Miss Hansen you may begin.
Thank you Mannie [ph].
Good morning and welcome to our call to discuss our first quarter 2015 financial results.
Before we get started today’s call may include comments that constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton’s annual report on Form 10-K which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For your convenience this morning’s earnings release can be found on our website at investor.drhorton.com and we plan to file our 10-Q in the new few days.
Also after the conclusion of our call we will be posting updated supplementary historical data on the investor relations section of our website for your reference.
The supplementary information includes historical data on gross margins change in active selling community product mix and our mortgage operation.
Now I will turn the call over to David Auld our President and CEO.
Thank you Jessica and good morning.
In addition to Jessica I am pleased to be joined on this call by Mike Murray our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bill Wheat our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; We are off to a great start in 2015 and are looking forward to the spring.
In the first quarter our homes sold and closed increased by 35% and 29% respectively and we had another solid quarter of profitability with $220.7 million of pretax income on $2.3 billion of revenue.
Demand for new homes remains stable across most of our markets during this quarter and consistent with normal seasonality our weekly sales pace has accelerated in January.
We are in a strong competitive position for the upcoming spring sales season with a well-stocked supply of land lots and homes.
For our full year in 2015 we expect to generate a 20% to 30% increase in revenues with similar levels of profitability and operating margins as we share on our last call.
Our continued strategic focus is to leverage our operating platform to generate double digit growth in both revenues and pretax profits while improving our cash flows and increasing our returns.
Mike? Net income for the first quarter increased 16% to $142.5 million or $0.39 per diluted share compared to $123.2 million or $0.36 per diluted share in the year ago quarter.
Our consolidated pretax income increased 16% to $220.7 million in the first quarter compared to $189.7 million in the year ago quarter and homebuilding pretax income increased 13% to $206.1 million compared to $181.9 million in the prior year quarter.
Our first quarter home sales revenues increased 37% to $2.2 billion on 7 973 homes closed up from $1.6 billion on 6 188 homes closed in the year ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $281 000 up 7% compared to the prior year primarily driven by a 4% in our average home size and a small increase in our average sales price per square foot.
Bill? The value of our net sales orders in the first quarter increased 40% from a year ago quarter to $2.1 billion and homes sold increased 35% to 7 370 homes on a 6% increase in active selling communities.
Our average sales prices on net sales orders in the first quarter increased 4% to $286 100.
The cancellation rate for the first quarter was 24% relatively stable compared to 23% in the year ago quarter.
The value of our backlog increased 29% from a year ago to $2.7 billion with an average sales price per home of $293 600 and homes in backlog increased 21% to 9 285 homes.
Our backlog conversion rate for the first quarter was higher than our expectations at 81%.
We expect our second quarter backlog conversion rate to be in the range of 81% to 85%.
Jessica.
We are experiencing strong growth and profitability in the heart of our business in our D.R.
Horton branded communities which accounted for the substantial majority of our sales and closings this quarter.
We are also pleased with the progress and performance of the rollouts of our Express Homes and Emerald Homes brands.
Our Express Homes brand which is targeted at the true entry level buyer focused primarily on affordability is now being offered in 38 markets and 11 states with the significant majority of our Express sales and closings to-date coming from Texas the Carolinas and Florida.
This quarter Express accounted for 13% of our homes sold 10% of homes closed and 6% of home sales revenue.
The average closing price of an Express Home in the first quarter was $169 000.
Customer response to our affordable Express product offerings has been extremely positive and we expect to have Express Homes communities open in the substantial majority of our markets by the end of this fiscal 2015.
Emerald Homes our brand for higher end move up and luxury communities is available in 35 markets across 15 states.
In the first quarter 7% of our homes closed were priced greater than $500 000 accounting for 17% of our home sales revenue up from 5% of homes closed and 14% of revenues in the same quarter last year.
Mike? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the first quarter was 19.8% in the middle of the expected range we shared on our last call.
This was a 70 basis points sequential decline from the fourth quarter 80 basis points of the margin decrease was due to cost increases in excess of sales price increases and changes in product mix and 10 basis points was due to slightly higher relative cost for warranty and construction defect claims.
These margin decreases were partially offset by a 20 basis point improvement related to less impact from purchase accounting for acquisitions.
Our general gross margin expectations for fiscal 2015 remain unchanged from what we shared last quarter.
With the strong performance of our Express Community so far we continue to expect this brand to grow quickly as a percentage of our product mix helping us generate strong growth in both revenues and profits but bringing our average gross margin percentage down this year.
In the current stable housing environment we continue to expect our average home sales gross margins to be around 20% with quarterly fluctuations that can range from 19% to 21% due to product and geographic mix and their relative impact of warranty litigation and interest costs.
As a reminder our reported gross margins include all of our interest costs.
Bill? Home building SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $238 million compared to $183.4 million in the prior year quarter.
As a percentage of home building revenues our SG&amp;A improved 60 basis points to 10.6% compared to 11.2% in the prior year quarter as our significant revenue increase this quarter improved our SG&amp;A leverage.
For the second quarter we expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of home sales revenues to improve year-over-year by 30 to 50 basis points to the range of 10.6% to 10.8%.
We expect our third and fourth quarter SG&amp;A percentage to trend down sequentially from the second quarter on higher expected volumes.
Our ongoing annual target for SG&amp;A as a percentage of home building revenues is 10%.
Jessica? Financial services’ pretax income in the first quarter increased 87% to $14.6 million from $7.8 million in the year ago quarter.
89% of our mortgage companies loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our home building operations.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 42% of the mortgage companies’ volume down from 45% in the year-ago quarter.
Borrowers originating loans with our mortgage company this quarter had an average FICO score of 717 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 89%.
David? At the end of December we had 21 300 homes in inventory of which 1 600 were models 12 400 were spec homes and 4 500 of the specs were completed.
Our construction in progress and finished homes inventory increased by $178 million during the quarter as we prepare for seasonally higher demand in the spring.
Our first quarter investment in lots land and development totaled $564 million of which $309 million was to replenish finished lots and land and $255 million was for land development.
At December 31 2014 our lot portfolio consisted of 125 000 owned lots with an additional 60 000 lots controlled through option contracts.
71 000 of our lots are finished 33 000 are owned and 38 000 are optioned.
Our 185 000 total lots owned and controlled put us in a strong competitive position in the current housing market with a sufficient lot supply to support strong growth in sales and closings in future periods.
As we invest in new communities for all three of our brands our main underwriting criteria remains unchanged.
A minimum annual pretax return on inventory of 20% defined as pre-tax income divided by average inventory over the life of the community.
We expect each community regardless of brand to achieve this target by optimizing the balance between absorptions margins and inventory levels.
We expect our total home building pretax return on inventory to improve this year as compared to last year.
Mike? During the first quarter we recorded $2.2 million in land options charges for write-offs of earnest money deposits and due diligence cost for projects that we do not intend to pursue.
We also recorded $3.8 million of inventory impairment charges related to a pending land sale in our west region.
Our inactive land held for development of $304.3 million at the end of the quarter represents 13 900 loss down slightly from September and down 36% from a year ago.
We are proactively working through these older unproductive assets to redeploy the capital and improve the cash flows and returns.
We continue to formulate our operating plans for each of our remaining inactive land parcels and we expect that our land held for development will continue to decline this fiscal year.
We will continue to evaluate our inactive land parcels for potential impairments which may result in additional impairment charges in future periods but the timing and magnitude of these charges will fluctuate as they have in the past.
Bill? At December 31st our homebuilding liquidity included $517.7 million of unrestricted homebuilding cash and $506 million available capacity on our revolving credit facility.
We had $375 million of cash borrowings and $94 million of letters of credit outstanding on the revolver.
Our gross homebuilding leverage ratio was 39.3% and our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash was 35.4%.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at December 31 was $3 billion.
Our only public debt maturity in fiscal 2015 is our $158 million of Senior Notes due in February.
At December 31 our shareholders equity balance was $5.3 billion and book value per share was $14.40 up 11% from a year ago.
Jessica? Looking forward we would like to highlight some of our expectations for the fiscal year which are unchanged from our last call and based on the current stable housing market conditions.
In fiscal 2015 we continue to expect to close between 34 500 and 37 500 homes and generate consolidated revenues of between $9.5 billion and $10.5 billion.
We also continue to expect to generate a similar level of profitability and operating margins is what we shared on our last call.
We anticipate our home sales gross margin for the full year of fiscal 2015 will range from 19.5% to 20.5% with potential quarterly fluctuation outside of this range.
We estimate our homebuilding SG&amp;A expense will range from 10% to 10.3% of homebuilding revenues for the full year with our next quarter being higher than this range and the third and fourth quarters at the low end or below the annual range.
We expect our financial services operating margin to range from 25% to 30%.
We are forecasting our fiscal 2015 income tax rate to be between 35% and 36% and our diluted share count to be approximately 370 million shares.
For our second fiscal quarter of 2015 we expect our number of homes closed to approximate the beginning backlog conversion rate of between 81% and 85%.
We anticipate our second quarter home sales gross margin will be in the range of 19.5% to 20% subject to potential fluctuations from product mix warranty and interest cost.
We expect our homebuilding SG&amp;A in the second quarter to be in the range of 10.6% to 10.8% of revenues David? In closing our first quarter growth in sales closings and profits in a relatively stable market is a result of the strength of our operating platform and we are excited about the spring selling season and the opportunities ahead.
This quarter the value of our sales and closings increased by 40% and 37% respectively and we generated another solid quarter of profitability with a consolidated pretax income of $220.7 million on $2.3 billion of revenue.
We remain focussed on growing both our revenues and pretax profits at a double digit pace while improving our cash flows and increasing our returns.
We are well positioned with our solid balance sheet industry leading market share broad geographic footprint diversified product offerings across our three brands attractive finished lot and land position and most importantly our tremendous operational team across the country.
We’d like to thank all of our employees for their continued hard work and we look forward to working together to continue growing and improving our operations during 2015.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now host questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
The first question is coming from David Goldberg of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning everybody and congratulations on a great quarter.
Thank you David.
My first question was on competitive behaviour.
We've been hearing about more and more builders talking about incentives increasing obviously you guys haven't had to change your gross margin forecast.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit of color on what you're hearing from the field.
Are you hearing buyers are coming and asking for more incentives and you're just not willing to be flexible that way or is the value proposition such that you think you already have a more competitive product essentially? David this is David Auld.
I think we have been focussing on the value proposition really since last spring and we just -- because of our broad footprint number of communities we have we are just not seeing the same pressure at any one location that some of the other guys are.
And just specifically David our incentive levels are in the same range that we have seen really since last spring.
It’s obviously that sort of community by community levels so we see some variation there but in general we’re hitting our absorption targets pretty consistently and therefore at a high level we are not seeing any big changes in incentive levels.
Got it.
And just as a follow-up I think everybody would love to get some color on the markets in Texas obviously you guys have a very big position there's a lot of concern given what's going on with oil maybe you can just kind of give us some on the ground I know you said January sales and traffic were up sequentially as would expect generally but maybe focus in on the markets in Texas and how you're seeing them move here if we're seeing any pause from the buyers would be helpful.
Thank you.
Hi David this is Mike.
We saw our Texas operations perform in line with the company and our expectations for the first quarter and into the first few weeks of January so far.
So while we would expect that there could be some general slowdown in Texas at some point specifically perhaps Houston and Midland we haven’t exactly seen it yet and we’re very encouraged seeing the results inline with the expectations right now.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Stephen East of Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Just following on Texas since we get so many questions about it have you changed what you're doing on land deals? What type of contingency planning are you going through and again I understand primarily Houston but I would love your opinions about how much you think the other markets would ultimately be impacted versus what Houston would be impacted.
Stephen this is David.
Obviously Houston and Midland are going to have a tougher time if oil prices stay down than the balance of the markets and Texas.
All of them will be impacted.
From an investment standpoint we are well positioned in Texas.
We don’t have to go out today and take a lot of risk on the land side as the competition from other builders decreases even if the market stays relatively strong you know price tomorrow just on rumor and innuendo is probably going to be less than it is today.
So we are in the market we are going to continue to be in the market but we are not in a place today where we have to go buy anything so we are going to take a more conservative approach than what you have seen in the last couple of years.
And Stephen this Bill just to add some specifics to Houston and Midland our fiscal 2014 revenues in Houston were about 5% of the company and our fiscal 2014 revenues in Midland were less than 1% so it is certainly compared to the rest of the company relatively small piece but as you know we manage our business market by market so we are treating these markets and while we are seeing there individually we’ll adjust our investment decisions by what we see in those markets.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then sort of a two-part one southwest and west strong order growth just trying to understand where that's occurring and why it's occurring.
And then David you're sort of finishing your first hundred days if you will I would love to get your thoughts about what you're seeing maybe it’s a little bit different than your expectations maybe a direction you'd like to move the company a little bit more or a little bit less just sort of an initial hundred day wrap-up if you would.
I can tell you from the 100 day perspective; I’ve been a part of this management team for 25 years.
There were no surprises coming up here the difference in operational philosophy were we just continued to drive down subdivision by subdivision by subdivision house by house.
That’s been a part of our program for a long time.
I’ll probably provide a little more focus on that or conversation with our operators about it but it’s always been there.
Okay fair enough.
Stephen this is Bill you asked about the west and the southwest obviously the west is a bigger region for us.
We have some very good positions in our western markets and we’re seeing we have seen pretty good strength in the market there through December and so we feel like that’s reflecting in our sales growth that I wouldn’t necessarily call out one market in particular.
Southwest is pretty small for us it’s basically Arizona New Mexico and obviously there’s been a lot of volatility there over the last couple of years and so you’re seeing a nice increase this quarter but I wouldn’t read too much into our southwest results given its size.
The changes you are seeing Stephen though are truly being driven by absorption which is what we are pretty excited about that’s what we’ve been focussed on for quite some time now and with our active selling communities only up about 6% on a year-over-year basis for the entire company and you saw a very strong pick up in our absorption pace this quarter.
Okay thanks and congratulations on a nice quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Robert Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi this is Collin [ph] filling in for Bob actually.
I just had a question on ASP you guys saw a pretty solid increase in ASP year-over-year.
How do you think this pricing is going to trend throughout the year sequentially? Collin [ph] we are kind of projecting ASPs to be flat sort of hard to really predict given the changing mix that we are seeing with Express representing a larger proportion of our sales and deliveries but we are looking for a flat sales price outlook for the year.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Stephen Kim from Barclays Capital.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much guys yeah congratulations good job executing.
I wanted to ask you a question about costs.
And as we've been talking to folks in the industry we've kind of gotten some I would say we haven't really gotten a lot of agreement about the ability to extract some concessions from your subcontractors your suppliers etcetera.
Was wondering if you given your significant gap that you created here between you all and number two whether you're seeing more success in driving down your input costs whether it be across labor or materials or really anything if you could call out something that would be very helpful.
Thanks.
Yes Stephen this is Bill.
You know that’s something we are still working to kind of trying to find the balance on.
If we look year-over-year this on our closings this quarter our stick and brick cost still increased on a per square foot basis about 6% and our revenues were only up 3%.
So we still got some work to do there we’ve seen that trend over the last few quarters and that’s something we are very focussed on.
And in terms of improving our cost relative to our ability to raise our prices.
There is certainly there are always things that we can do with our scale market by market and globally there are national arrangements and we can assure you that that’s something that we are very focussed on throughout our organization as to even out that relationship and stabilize that going forward so we can improve our margins.
As far as specific matters it’s across the gamut [ph] in different categories you know with oil prices down we have the potential of seeing some benefit on some categories like shingles and things that have petroleum products in them but I would tell you we are just focussed on anything we can do across the board to improve our improve our cost structure.
Got it okay so it’s a little early still but still hopeful.
Absolutely.
I wanted to also than follow up if I could a little bit on the other half of the margin equation which is your price.
So obviously you put up a very good order number here as we expected you to.
You are continuing to obviously gain a lot of share.
But you also mentioned you’re your pretty much your absorption rates were I think you said in line with your targets.
And I guess I'm trying to figure out whether or not the order growth that you achieved in the quarter and are achieving generally is enough for you to perhaps think you might have more opportunity on a pricing side to get a little more aggressive with pricing.
Because from your commentary it didn't sound like -- you maintained your guidance on margins and things like that.
Do you think that you do have the ability to push pricing more than you have been given what you've seen so far in the spring selling season? Stephen its way too early in the spring selling season to really hand out that kind of message we are happy with where we are.
We feel like if it continues if the market is a good market to this spring then yes we will try to push margins.
But based upon where we are today it’s just not something we can put out there.
Okay.
Stephen as we talked about our goal is to increase efficiencies and at a community by community level and that means taking the communities to the planned pace that we want for each community.
Pace then begets good momentum positive momentum to given community and certainly as David said its early spring.
Spring is not even really here yet.
But we’re in line with our expectations and we would expect that we’re going to get every margin of dollar that every dollar of margin we can as we move to the spring and as our pace and absorptions stay on track.
Okay great.
Thanks very much guys.
Good Job.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ken Zener of KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Gentlemen Jessica.
Good morning.
Good morning Ken.
Several items I just like to clarify and get a little feedback on.
So your sales pace rose sequentially it seems is that normal seasonality to you or was there really just a step function in the absorptions that as we move into the second quarter and third quarter we’ll have more normal seasonality? Ken we actually saw our active selling communities on average trend down a little bit so you’re right our increase in absorption was up say call it low to mid single-digit.
That’s actually pretty consistent with what we’ve seen over the last few years.
Right.
So nothing out of line.
What’s more important which I think is what you’re getting at is the pickups that we’ll see from December and March and we’ll be very focused on driving that increase in absorption and making sure that we’re hitting that normal seasonal trends.
So to get to that and realizing you guys aren’t necessarily going to give guidance but historical over the last let’s say 15 years you usually had December pace decelerate to 15% to 18% from September? And then usually you picked up around 50% 55% in the March quarter while the December pace is now different slightly.
Do you think the March pace is there any reason that that would accelerate or decelerate versus that kind of 50% rate that we’ve seen historically? I don’t think there’s anything that we would say that December would read into March.
Obviously with improved pace in December we would feel very good if we see our normal 50% increase into the March quarter.
Okay.
And then I guess last question around Express given that you’re looking for flat pricing this year you’re costs are kind of still up.
You’re obviously executing well in terms of understand how your gross margins are trending.
Do you think – this is a bigger question but if you’re getting more mix from you Express product? Would it surprise you if 2016 if your price mix was actually down its not necessarily a bad think obviously if your pace is up at the rate that you’re going but would that surprise you? I don’t like we’d be surprise because there’s a lot less competition at that price point and it’s going to drive its continuing to drive month over month quarter over quarter increases.
Yes.
Ken I think we would agree with you.
That’s not necessarily a bad thing.
It’s not a bad thing at all if our average sales price were to go down because our Express mix has grown.
And that’s really part of what’s behind our expectations for our average selling price to be roughly flat this year.
Obviously we still saw an increase in Q1 but our expectation was roughly flat because we do expect Express to grow as a percentage of our business this year.
And while we may see appreciation in some markets are mixed toward Express may offset that somewhat.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Eli Hackel of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just following up on Express but a little differently obviously you’re rolling it out throughout your markets now.
I’m just curious is sort of what happens when you roll it out sort of the buyer types that are coming.
Are these people that have been trying to buy a home for year or two and just there hasn’t been anything in their price point and there’s sort of jus a flood of buyers that come and they’re happy there’s something finally that they can afford.
I’m curious about sort of what happens as you enter markets and who’s showing up at the door? Hi Eli this is Mike.
I think you have hit it pretty well.
I think that’s been an underserved market segment and that they’re getting a new home product at a very affordable price is an alternative they haven’t had.
That combined with some general strengthen in the economy over the past few years and in some job numbers working together to provide that product has been a good outcome for us quite frankly.
Great.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just little direct – different direction.
You talked earlier about increasing cash flows.
What type of return – what type of horizon are you thinking about the cash flows sort of going from negative to positive and you could just talk about preference in order and use of cash when it does do that flip? Thanks.
Eli this is Bill.
We’ve talked about fiscal 2015 being the point in which we kind of hit an inflection at a roughly breakeven level for cash.
We could be slightly positive slightly negative that will largely be determined based on what we see in the market in the spring and whether that affects our investment decisions in inventory but then our expectation is then moving into fiscal 2016 that we should general solid positive cash flows.
We’ve talked quite a bit about the fact that our land supply is at an adequate level and should support growth in sales and closings in the revenue in the next couple of years without really needing to increase that land supply.
And we think that’s going to be a big driver towards getting us to a positive cash flow position.
What we will do with it when we get to that point is really we’ll make that decision when we get there.
Today we’re still seeing very strong opportunities in our business to continue invest in strong markets and so that to the extend we see strong opportunities to reinvest in the business that will continue to be our number one priority.
Beyond that we’ve continue to be a consistent dividend payer and we’ll always look at our dept levels and to the extent that we feel like it’s most appropriate for us to reduce and we will look at that as well.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Eric Bosshard of Cleveland Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just follow-up on Express just curious as you continue to roll these homes out and have success.
How things evolving with the strategy especially as you move into the other markets just thinking if there’s anything different on price points or features anything that you can do to improve the margin profile just give us a little bit of an update if you could on how the product is evolving? Well as you rolled out a new product you gain efficiencies every time your build.
And we are also giving a better definition of who is buying.
Why they are buying.
And targeting what we’re building what we’re putting in to that buyer.
So the general belief is over time we’ll get add it and we’ll make more money delivering it.
And thus far express while the average margin is below the company average.
I think we would in general say that margins have been a little better than our original expectations on Express.
Still below the average and as we execute and roll it out I think there is definitely will be opportunities to improve on that.
Great.
And then that’s helpful.
Secondly in terms of land costs if you give us some perspective on the cost of land that you’re using and expect to use over the next year if there’s any meaningful change in the margin opportunity or the pricing requirements associated with the inflation that’s taking place in your basic land? No doubt our land costs are a components that we do expect to increase.
We have seen our land as a percentage of our overall revenues or on a per square foot basis similar to how it look at stick and brick.
It has increase as well on a year-over-year basis it’s up about 6%.
And as we work through some of the communities that where we bought the lots and land in 2011 and 2012 and began to work through more of the ones we purchased in 2013 and 2014.
We would expect that to increase somewhat.
But that’s one of the things that we’re certainly focused on and as we look at our expectations for pricing and demand in our markets going forward we certainly focus on trying to only pay what we can afford to hit our margins and return objectives going forward.
Does the up 6% is that kind of sustain that where it should be your – as you work in more of a 2013 2014 land is that still up a little bit that 6% number? That’s on per square foot basis and that’s where things have been just recently.
Would not be surprise for that to continue to move upward a bit as we move through 2015.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Will Randow of Citi.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning and congratulations.
Thank you.
Thanks Will.
As you guys think about buying land today I want to get a sense of what are assuming for ASP inflation if you will I’m assuming low single digit I know you’re not looking for inflation in your numbers and I would assume that land has actually become a bit cheaper as a percentage of called it home sales revenue for the last call it six months versus 2013 where we can have that double but love to get your views on that? From price of a lot to the selling price of the house we haven’t seen a decline over 2013 primarily I think because what we’ve delivered in 2013 we bought in 2012.
As we look forward will underwrite a land purchase we assume flat pricing on the homes as well as flat pricing on the cost develop if it’s a land parcel to be developed as well and stick and brick.
It just too hard to start predicting this is going to go up by this percent these costs to go up by that percent.
It’s much for us controllable underwriting process to look at pricing on a flat basis and then understand what that performance we expected to be to make the investment decision.
And in terms of regional exposure it seems like the southeast firing pretty strong particular Atlanta where you’ve done a recent acquisition.
I guess what’s been your strongest market and your weakest and where have been surprised? Thanks.
I mean we’ve done.
I wouldn’t say we’ve been surprised.
We’ve made a conscious decision to push assets to the East Southeast particularly.
We like the just the demographics and the growth trends and the job growth there.
Texas has been strong despite the softening of oil.
Texas is going to remain strong at least in my opinion.
I think our investments we’ve made in the last couple years in terms we look at the inventory growth by region you’re now seeing that deliver in our results especially on the Southeastern and South Central.
Appreciate the color and congrats again.
Thank you.
The next question is from Mike Dahl with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Wanted to follow-up on I guess the Texas comment for tying [ph] in Express.
If we look at the growth in Express seems like its accounted for about half of the overall growth in unit orders for the company presumably it’s a bit higher in Texas so just wondering how your thinking.
Would unit Express still be up in Texas? Just trying to think about how many of these comments are for in specific versus the market? I don’t think there’s any doubt that our units would still up in Texas without Express or Express is certainly is a key part of our rollout right now at Texas and in other markets.
But I think there is some Company’s specific factors with respect to D.R.
Horton in Texas versus what you may hear from some other builders obviously we’re based in Texas we’ve had a strong position in Texas historically and we have a strong operating platform there that’s allowing us to execute in the current market and we believe would allow us to execute very effectively if the market changes.
It has historically and we believe that that we’re in good position to handle whatever the market may bring to us coming forward.
Got it.
Thanks.
And shifting gears I guess curious your thoughts on the FHA premium issue you given the 42% FHA VA and how your sales people are thinking about this? Is this something where that buyer is even aware of the change in premiums yet or is it a tool that you have your sales people needing to educate buyers and whether or not you’ve seen any initial response from that? Thanks.
Yes Mike it’s definitely a tool for our sales people and something that they’re already out there talking to our potential home buyers about.
I think some people do come in educated just because that makes a lot of headlines when there are changes on that front.
And then there are some people who probably come in that are little less educated.
But our salespeople but our sales people already have flyers out and about letting people know about the change and we’re definitely using that to our advantage from a marketing perspective a little too early to know what kind of impact that could have but clearly any incremental easing in this case lowering of insurance premiums we would look at as a positive.
And whether that they are educated about exactly what it means or don’t – exactly what it means it has people taking about buying a house and that’s always a good thing for us.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Wanted to follow-up discussion about the gross margins.
It’s been a while since we’ve had a kind of normal year from a seasonal flow perspective so if we do end up with that this year stable pricing incentives et cetera and closings volume rising throughout your fiscal year.
Would we expect to see the normal gross margin leverage on fixed cost and therefore some increase this year goes on? Nishu we really don’t have any significant fixed costs in our gross margin at all virtually all of our costs are associated in a variable within our margin.
So we really don’t see that leverage with volume across our year.
We do on the SG&amp;A side because obviously there’s a fixed component to SG&amp;A but there is not in terms of margin.
What you would see if we see the normal lift and we see consistency through the market that may allow us in our communities to adjust pricing which certainly could help but no we don’t expect anything seasonally from a leverage of fixed cost to help our margins.
We’re guiding to a range of 19.5% to 20.5% could have some potential quarterly fluctuations there.
And right now three weeks into January really the spring and what we see in the market in the spring is going to determine the trajectory of our margins going forward for the rest of the year.
Got it.
And that’s very helpful.
And second question I wanted to ask about the January comments you made.
So I know it’s obviously a difficult time of year to assess trends.
But given the strong demand that’s you been seeing any kind of anecdotal indicators you’ve seen to help you understand where that’s coming from? Is that the market? Is that the lower rate environment we’ve seen? You know gas prices some of the mortgage stuff that has helped out or is it kind of just D.R.
Horton specific? Any kind anecdotal color on that would be helpful? I think weather patterns have been better this year and last year I mean we didn’t gave a weather report last year but I do think that weather impacted people’s ability to get out and buy else.
I think the FHA conversation has got people thinking about buying a house and going into models.
The gasoline price is a huge – I mean that’s money directly back into the economy every week I mean there is no better way to get money into the economy and give it directly to the consumer.
I think it’s a combination of three things.
I think we’re better position this year coming out the blocks when we last year.
We’re excited.
We got good people working hard and are well positioned to capture what we think is going to be a good spring.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you for your color.
Thank you.
The next question is from Adam Rudiger of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
On the heels of that question this is kind of addressed but I was curious if you think about your year-over-year change in orders per community how much of that you think is due to say in acquisition say the product mix maybe incentives that you increased a little bit early in the year just trying to get a sense of how much of this might be like kind of true organic changes in buying patterns versus as asked earlier kind of Company specific? Yes.
Adam there is just clearly a couple of things running from our acquisition of Crown communities they are very efficient community builder so there is a component there as well as the mix to Express.
That’s at a higher absorption rates there is no doubt those are components but with our sales increase of 35% on an average selling community increase of 6% obviously there’s a lot of organic improvement as well across our organization.
And I really thing that’s results of us being very focused community by community and that’s been an emphasis across our organization over the last year to deliver community by community hitting our absorptions hitting our targets staying on plan and then adjusting inventory levels adjusting our pricing according whether its down or up in order to make sure we stay on target to generate the best returns that we can.
I really think that’s that biggest factor.
Got it.
Thanks.
The rest of my questions have been answered.
Thank you.
Thanks Adam.
Thank you.
As a reminder ladies and gentlemen we do have to limit yourself to one and one follow-up.
The next question is Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and nice quarter.
Thank you.
First question I had just to go back to the community counts absorption stats from the quarter itself.
Community count year-over-year I guess flowed a little bit and you said it was down a little bit sequentially.
Is that more of a one quarter phenomenon at least from a sequential standpoint given that you had sort of this consistent low double-digit growth in 2014? Would that kind of stay in mid single-digit year-over-year rate for 2015 or how should we think about that? Yeah Mike what happened this quarter is pretty much exactly in line with what we shared on our last call.
We talked about for the year we would anticipate our community count being up.
If it’s up in only a low to mid single-digit range.
I think we still feel the same way about that for this quarter.
We were up 6% on a year-over-year basis and we were down 2% on average sequentially.
So we could see some more sequential quarters that are decreases but we will – I mean lot of it depends on our sales pace and as always what we see in the spring but I think we still think for the full year low to mid single digits is about as much as we would get in terms of increase in community count and we still expect the vast majority of our growth this year to come from increase and absorptions rather than communities.
Great.
Now that’s very helpful.
And I guess just switching to the sales pace maybe kind of a two part with the strong improvement in 1Q and that follow the similar type of rate in 4Q on a year-over-year basis just wanted to get a sense of if you kind of stripe out maybe the mix shift from the success of Express what the kind of let’s call the D.R.
Horton branded bread and butter communities would we see a similar type of increase or would it be more of like maybe mid-teen type of rate? That’s one.
And two just a clarification on the – when you talk about accelerating sales pace in January that’s typical with seasonality I presume that if those comments were more towards seasonality that on a year-over-year basis maybe you’re still seeing a similar type of absorption that you saw in 1Q? Mike on the seasonality we are seeing January move in line with expectations.
But three weeks in it’s hard to call a full month and to compare year-over-year.
It’s kind of a short window for the comparison.
We are encouraged with the January sales pace.
It’s meeting our expectations.
But there is a seasonal lift that generally occurs this time of year as well.
And then the prior question on the organic Horton sales pace growth I mean we are getting lift from the Express rollout.
That’s good but we are also seeing strong solid growth in the Horton brands as well.
And is it mid-teens type of number the right way to think about that I mean I know its maybe difficult parsing out but clearly there’s a positive mix impact from Express so just trying to get that order of magnitude? Yeah Mike we don’t have that specifically but clearly there’s still a strong double digit growth across really all of our brands right now to nail it down to whether its 15 or whether its 20 would be a little bit difficult for us right here.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jack Micenko with SIG.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just anything about mix and the absorption and the backlog conversion are you going into spring 2015 with a greater larger number finished specs than you did 2014? Yes we are and it’s really ties to our expectation where the markets going to be.
Okay.
And can you give us some magnitude on our same-store sales basis how many more you think you have last year? Is that something you can give us? Well it’s tied to the absorption per flag.
As we have pushed up absorptions in our subdivision performance we have increased spec levels to facilitate the next 90 days sales.
Jack in absolute terms we’re up about 1000 completed specs on a year-over-year basis.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then on the impairment line knowing that it’s a fluid situation and you’re going to opportunistic I guess the question is more in context.
Are you going to be – should we think of 2014 on that line something closer to 2014 or something lower like the 2013 or 2012 numbers just from a volume I think you said you have $304 million in land you look to sale or something like that any context there? Jack I think as we said that’s kind of a opportunistic taking advantage of pulling those assets out something that results in impairments sometimes it doesn’t.
Generally my gut would be that it will be little bit inside the 2014 level.
Hard to exactly predict it though.
Okay.
That’s fair.
That’s really project-by-project the 304 million that’s our land held for developments some of which we may chose to bring out and build homes on.
Some of which we may decide at some point to sell.
What we’ve seen thus far is typically the deals that we’ve been to bring out and build homes on or develop and build homes.
We have had very few impairments on those as the projects that we determined that our best option is to sell in the current markets where it has been more of our impairment so it will depend on our evaluations project-by-project.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jade Rahmani of KBW.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for taking the questions.
Just two small ones.
What is the mix of spec sales in the quarter and can you also give the mix of first time and first time move up at your mortgage company? Thank you.
Sure Jade.
In terms of our specs as a percentage of our closings this quarter it was right in the normal range we would see which was around 70% to 75% and then the mix of our products for the mortgage company were you asking specifically about FHA and DA.
First time.
First time I sorry we are right around 40% so that kind of in line with more long-term average range for us.
But not surprisingly our Express percentage is running higher than the Company average.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mike Roxland from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Congrats on a good quarter.
As we begin to open communities I think its goes back to one of Bill’s comments as you begin to open communities on the lots you purchased in 2013 and 2014 is it possible that we could see further margin compression especially if you’re enable to get a better balance between rising inputs and modest price appreciation? Could you repeat some of the Mike I’m not sure we were quite following.
Bill I think you mentioned or you made a comment that you expect to see lot costs continue to obviously increase and could serve as a potential headwind for gross margin going forward.
So if you’re unable to get a better balance between the rising inputs in aggregate you obviously going to be dealing with rising inputs higher lot costs prices that are modestly improving.
Could we see some continued gross margin compression or future gross margin compression in outer year so maybe not call 2015 but I’ll say 2016 and beyond? We don’t have that visibility if the market gets better our margin will improve and the differential in land cost is not going to drive margins significantly higher or significantly lower.
Yes.
What we ultimately pay for land is rolling the output of where we expect the market to be when we’re buying it.
My comments were specific to the next few quarters in 2015 as we’re working through land that we may have purchased at bit higher prices in 2013 and 2014.
But clearly as the market moderated a bit in 2014 the land market while it may not have come down much certainly isn’t rising at the pace it was so that’s self adjusting at some point here.
So to comment really beyond the next few quarters we really don’t have that visibility.
Got it thanks for the color.
And just quickly on home building SG&amp;A came a little better than we expected is it possible to talk about the SG&amp;A the individual brand specifically Express and Emerald.
You know given that Emerald is relatively a new market new buyer type for you as you gain the experience in producing that product I think you actually sold a few million dollar homes in Texas the last quarter have you been able to more effectively leverage your volume with Emerald? Mike [ph] we don’t track the SG&amp;A by brand in one of the strategies we’ve looked to do is to leverage our operational platform to serve new customer segments and so that doesn’t require a repeat of all the infrastructure to support those different operations so we haven’t tried to pass out what the sort of the home building SG&amp;A burden is to those individual brands.
But I would say that as we have anniversaried and more than that the roll out of these things we have gotten better our execution has improved.
We have had some of the inefficiencies that just come along with starting something new are behind us.
And so I do think that we are gaining efficiencies and certainly as the volumes increase it helps to absorb the SG&amp;A cost as well.
Got it.
Thank you for the color.
Good luck -- for the balance of the year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That is all the time we have for questions.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional or closing comments.
Thank you Mannie.
We appreciate everyone’s time on the call today and look forward to speaking with you again in April to share our second quarter results.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call of D.R.
Horton America’s Builder the largest builder in the United States.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce your host Jessica Hansen Vice President of Investor Relations for D.
R.
Horton.
Thank you Jessica you may begin.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning and welcome to our call to discuss our financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2015.
Before we get started today’s call may include comments that constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton’s annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For your convenience this morning’s earnings release can be found on our website at investor.drhorton.com and we plan to file our 10-Q in the next few days.
Also after the conclusion of our call we will again post supplementary historical data on the investor relations section of our website for your reference.
The supplementary information includes historical data on gross margins change in active selling community product mix and our mortgage operation updated for this quarter’s results.
Now I will turn the call over to David Auld our President and CEO.
Thank you Jessica and good morning.
In addition to Jessica I am pleased to be joined on this call by Mike Murray our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bill Wheat our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
The spring selling season is in full swing at D.R.
Horton.
During the second quarter housing market conditions were healthy and relatively stable with new home demand growing moderately across all our markets.
Our sales absorption improved significantly during this quarter as our homes sold increased by 30% from a year ago on a 4% increase in active selling communities with double-digit percentage sales increases in all three of our brands.
This reflects strong performance in our core D.R.
Horton communities and growth of our Emerald Homes and Express Homes brand enabling us to expand our industry leading market share.
Compared to the year ago quarter our number of homes sold doubled in our luxury Emerald communities and tripled in our entry level Express communities.
Our homes closed increased by 33% and we delivered another solid quarter of profitability with $230.1 million in pretax income on $2.4 billion of revenue.
We had a great first half of 2015 and expect the second half to be even better with a sales backlog of 12 177 homes at March 31 and a well-stocked supply of land lots and homes.
Our continued strategic focus is to leverage our operating platform to generate double-digit growth in both revenues and pretax profits on approving cash flows and increasing our returns.
Mike? Net income for the second quarter increased 13% to $147.9 million or $0.40 per diluted share compared to $131 million or $0.38 per diluted share in the year ago quarter.
Our consolidated pretax income increased 14% to $230.1 million in the second quarter compared to $201.9 million in the year ago quarter and home building pretax income increased 9% to $208.6 million compared to $191.7 million in the prior year quarter.
Our second quarter home sales revenues increased 38% to $2.3 billion on 8 243 homes closed up from $1.7 billion on 6 194 homes closed in the year ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $281 300 up 4% compared to the prior year primarily driven by 3% increase in our average home size.
Bill? The value of our net sales orders in the second quarter increased 33% from the year ago quarter to $3.2 billion and homes sold increased 30% to 11 135 homes on a 4% increase in active selling communities.
Our average sales price on net sales orders in the second quarter increased 2% to $284 400.
Cancellation rate for the second quarter was 20% compared to 19% in the year ago quarter.
The value of our backlog increased 27% from a year ago to $3.6 billion with an average sales price for homes of $293 500 and homes in backlog increased 21% to 12 177 homes.
Our backlog conversion rate for the second quarter was higher than our expectations at 89%.
We expect our third quarter backlog conversion rate to be in the range of 78% to 80% up from 76% for third quarter of last year.
Jessica? We are experiencing strong growth in profitability in the heart of our business in our D.R.
Horton branded communities which accounted for the substantial majority of our sales and closings this quarter.
We are also pleased with the progress and performance of our Emerald Homes and Express Homes brand.
Emerald Homes our brand for higher end move up and luxury communities is now available in 41 markets across 16 states.
Our Emerald product offering has been well received by home buyers and we plan to continue expanding our footprint of higher end communities across the country.
In the second quarter homes price greater than $500 000 accounted for 15% of our home sales revenue and 6% of our homes closed.
Our Express homes brands which are targeted at the true entry level buyer focused primarily on affordability is now being offered in 44 markets and 13 states with the significant majority of our Express sales and closings to-date coming from Texas the Carolinas and Florida.
Customer response to our affordable Express product offering has been very positive and we expect to have Express Homes communities open in a substantial majority of our markets by the end of this year.
This quarter Express accounted for 18% of our homes sold 13% of homes closed and 8% of home sales revenue.
The average closing price in an Express home in the second quarter was $179 000.
We are striving to be the leading builder in each of our operating markets with all three of our brands and we plan to maintain consistent broad diversity in our product offerings over the long term.
Bill? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the second quarter was 19.7% down 10 basis points from the first quarter and in the middle of the expected range we shared on our last call.
The consistency in our gross margin in the first two quarters reflects the stability of most of our markets today and the normalization of housing market conditions we have seen over the past year while the increases in our average sales price have moderated as we have increased our mix of entry level product we are raising price or reducing incentives when possible in communities where we are achieving our target absorptions and we are working to control cost increases.
These factors have enabled our gross margins to stabilize within our normal historical range.
Our general gross margin expectations remain unchanged from what we shared the past several quarters.
In the current stable housing environment we continue to expect our average home sales gross margin to generally be around 20% with quarterly fluctuations that can range from 19% to 21% due to product and geographic mix and the relative impact of warranty and interest costs.
As a reminder our reported gross margins include all of our interest costs.
For the upcoming third quarter we expect our home sales gross margin will be in the range of 19.5% to 20% consistent with the first two quarters of the year.
Mike? Home building SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $242.4 million compared to $187.9 million in the prior year quarter.
As a percentage of home building revenues our SG&amp;A improved 70 basis points to 10.4% compared to 11.1% in the prior year quarter as our significant revenue increase this quarter improved our SG&amp;A leverage.
Based on our projected backlog conversion we expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of home building revenues in the third quarter to be in the range of 9.9% to 10.2% which would be a year-over-year improvement of 40 to 70 basis points.
Our ongoing annual target for SG&amp;A as a percentage of home building revenue is 10%.
Jessica.
Financial services pretax income in the second quarter increased 111% to $21.5 million from $10.2 million in the year ago quarter.
89% of our mortgage company’s loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operation.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 45% of the mortgage company's volume compared to 43% in the year ago quarter.
Borrowers originating loans with our mortgage company in this quarter had an average FICA score of 717 and an average loan to value ratio at 88%.
David.
At the end of March we had 21 300 homes in inventory of which 1 700 were remodels 10 200 were spec homes and 4 100 of the specs were completed.
Our construction in progress and finished home inventory increased by $196 million during the quarter due to our seasonal home construction activity for the spring selling season.
Our second quarter investment in lots land and development totaled $507 million of which $282 million was to replenish finished lots and land and $225 million was for land development.
At March 31 2015 our lot portfolio consisted of 122 000 owned lots with an additional 55 000 lots controlled through option contracts.
64 000 of our lots were finished of which 33 000 are owned and 31 000 are options.
Our 177 000 total loan lots owned and controlled provide us a strong competitive position in the current housing market with a sufficient lot supply that supports strong growth in sales and closings in the future periods.
As we invest in new communities for all three of our brands our main underwriting criteria remains unchanged; a minimum annual pretax return on inventory of 20% defined as pretax income divided by average inventory over the life of the community.
We expect each community regardless of brand to achieve this target by optimizing the balance between absorptions margins and inventory levels as our underwriting continues to support our ongoing goal continual improvement in the company’s home building pretax return on inventory.
Bill? During the second quarter we recorded $4.4 million in land options charges for write-offs of earnest money deposits and due diligence cost for projects that we do not intend to pursue.
We also recorded $8.1 million of inventory impairment charges primarily related to an expected land sale in our Southeast region.
Our inactive land held for development of $271.3 million at the end of the quarter represents 12 900 lots down 7% from December and down 41% from a year ago.
We continue to formulate our operating plans to work through each of our remaining inactive land parcels to improve cash flows and returns and we expect that our land held for development will decline further this year.
We will also continue to evaluate our inactive land parcels for potential impairments which may result in additional impairment charges in future periods but the timing and magnitude of these charges will fluctuate as they have in past.
Mike? At March 31st our homebuilding liquidity included $665.8 million of unrestricted homebuilding cash and $710 million of available capacity on our revolving credit facility.
We had $175 million of cash borrowings and $90 million of letters of credit outstanding on the revolver.
Our gross homebuilding leverage ratio was 39.6% and our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash was 34.7%.
We repaid $158 million of senior notes at maturity in February and the balance of our public notes outstanding at March 31 was $3.3 billion which includes $500 million of 4% senior notes we issued in February.
We had no debt maturities for the remainder of fiscal 2015 and as of today we have a total of $542.6 million of senior notes maturity in the next 12 months.
At March 31 our shareholders equity balance was $5.4 billion and book value per share is $14.78 which is up 11% from a year ago.
For the fiscal year-to-date period our cash used in operating activities was $168.8 million down from $265.8 million in the year ago period reflecting our efforts to improve our cash flow from operations.
Jessica? Looking forward we would like to update our expectations for the full fiscal year which are still relatively consistent from the beginning of the year.
As we are well into the spring selling season and gaining better visibility we are tightening the ranges that we originally provided.
Our updated expectations continue to be based on the current relatively stable housing market conditions and we still expect to generate a similar level of profitability and operating margins as our original range.
In fiscal 2015 we expect to close between 35 500 and 37 500 homes and generate consolidated revenues of between $9.8 billion and $10.5 billion.
We anticipate our home sales gross margins for the full fiscal year of 2015 will range from 19.5% to 20.5% consistent with our margins during the first half of the year.
We estimate our homebuilding SG&amp;A expense will range from 9.9% to 10.2% of homebuilding revenues for the full year.
We expect our financial services operating margins to range from 30% to 33% slightly higher than our original range.
And we continue to forecast our fiscal 2015 income tax rate to be between 35% and 36% and our diluted share count to be approximately 370 million shares.
For the third fiscal quarter of 2015 we expect our number of homes closed to approximate the beginning backlog conversion rate in the range of 78% to 80%.
We anticipate our third quarter home sales gross margin will be in the range of 19.5% to 20% subject to potential fluctuations from product mix warranty and interest cost and we expect our homebuilding SG&amp;A in the third quarter to be in the range of 9.9% to 10.2% of homebuilding revenues.
David? In closing our second quarter growth in sales closings and profits in a relatively stable market is the result of the strength of our operating platform and we are excited about the remainder of the year and opportunities ahead.
We remain focused on growing both our revenue and pretax profits at a double digit pace while improving cash flows and increasing our returns.
We are well positioned with our solid balance sheet industry leading market share broad geographic footprint diversified product offerings across our D.
R.
Horton Emerald and Express brands attractive finish lot and land position and most importantly our tremendous operational team across the country.
We’d like to thank all of our employees for their continued hard work and we look forward to working together to continue to grow and improve our operations.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We can now host questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question today is coming from Stephen East from Evercore ISI.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Maybe I’ll start out with Express David and you’re seeing some great growth there on it are you -- a couple of different things there are you seeing more competition yet come in to the market to serve this customer base? And then you all talked a little bit about your growth maybe what we should expect in the timeline and what type of community openings et cetera and where do we sit with the gross margin with that versus the rest of the company? Well Stephen at this point we’re not seeing a lot of competition.
People try to come in and compete with us.
We continue to open markets pretty much as fast as we can.
So we are seeing good growth in that brand and expect it to continue.
There seems to be a lot of talk about the lack of first time home buyer coming into the market.
That’s certainly not something we’re seeing where we have been able to get product on the ground we have found buyers.
So and from a margin perspective it’s running below the company average but it’s in line with our expectations and in some cases we were able to push margins up so… Solid margins over there but that solid margins and absorptions are very strong.
So absorptions are probably bit higher than our original expectations.
And that then drives the returns in line with our expectations.
Okay got you.
We’re very happy with it.
Okay what we’ve seen in the field has been amazing response to it.
I guess you are if we look at Texas more broadly and Houston specifically I know your numbers were really good.
Can you give us a little bit of color though about what you’re seeing as the progression month by month and maybe what April looked like particularly in Houston as everybody is concerned about it? Yes Stephen I have spent the last month and a half driving our Texas markets including Houston with the Regional President reporting and his Divisional Presidents.
You would think the market would be slowing down but we are seeing consistent performance pretty much across the Board and our April sales are a continuation of what we saw in the first quarter.
Stephen our Houston sales were in line with the expectations for the quarter our south central region was up 33% in sales and Houston was pretty much in line with the region.
So still strong increases out of that market for us.
I can tell you Steve we’re not seeing a slowdown in our projects.
Okay thanks a lot.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ben Zener [ph] from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning Ken Zener here.
Good morning Ken.
Good morning Ken.
So no good Steve goes unpunished here today.
You talked about in line with orders in line with expectations.
From our analysis while obviously you’re up very strong year-over-year.
If I look at pace it looks as though you’re doing normal seasonality sequentially.
Could you just comment on that and if that’s accurate? Yes we would consider it to be in line with normal seasonality.
Our sales were up I want to say right around 50% sequentially.
And even when you take into account our change in active selling communities as we've talked about for a little while those increases have moderated and so our sales were up about 51% from December to March on about 2% increase in selling communities.
So right inline with what we would expect for this time of the year.
Yes so that’s kind of how our seasonality is consistent with what we see but clearly we took a step up in absorptions this year versus last year and that is continuing through the spring.
Correct.
And then Dave I guess what's interesting our view or thesis [ph] is this is quantity not quality pointing to actually a lack of supply at the low end being the inhibitor for cyclical growth rather than demand which would be more loan oriented.
You seem to express that view relative to Express Homes.
Could you talk about why you think it’s supply not demand when so many people are focused on the tight loans as the issue.
What are the differences between your Express buyer and your traditional Horton? Thank you.
Technically the Express Buyers is buying their first home.
60% of our Express Buyers are first time home buyers.
Or they are people that are very conservative and looking for a great buy.
I'm not sure there is a lot of difference other than their income levels between the people buying the Express Home and the people buying a D.
R.
Horton home.
And just based on our experience thus far what we're seeing when we put the product out there at an affordable price for those entry levels buyers and the current mortgage environment there is plenty of demand.
We're not having any problem selling those houses.
So from that standpoint we -- our evidence would show that we think that any limitations for the entry level buyer is supply driven.
The mortgage environment someone has a decent credit score decent credit history they can get a mortgage today.
You do think housing demand is elastic relative to the home prices what Express would tell you? Yeah absolutely.
It's a value driven market.
And that's pretty much across the board.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
First question I wanted to ask was about pricing power.
So you folks are very clear and appreciate the color you've described normal demand trends and you've talked about the demand trends and you've talked about the spring selling season being normal even toned down your gross margin expectations a little bit.
But on the other hand you've now had I think three or four quarters in a row of nearly 30% order growth.
Your absorptions this quarter being up what 25% 26% year-over-year and you've actually taken up your volume expectations.
So how do I reconcile those two? I would think with those sort of volume increases you would be seeing greater pricing power but that's not -- doesn't seem to be what you're saying.
So how do I reconcile those two? So I can tell you the way we're looking at it is a return based model.
And if we can generate a 20% return at the division level then it's going to drive significant improvement to our operations and overall returns as a company.
So where we have the ability to maintain that absorption level and increase production we do.
And I can tell you we have seen a significant number of our projects where the margins have improved.
We are seeing that that we're hitting the pace and our plan pace in the various communities that we get there and then we feel we have pricing that are coming back incentives have not been increasing incentives are essentially flat for about a year.
And so we're seeing as pace improves we get price we will get some pricing power back we're seeing in communities.
And we're very happy with getting the stability in our margins.
The other thing Nishu keep in mind is our mix shift and so our average sales price have moderated in terms of increases but that's with Express Homes now accounting for 18% of our sales this quarter and 13% at closing at an ASP of about $179 000.
So we are raising prices in many of our communities today but we do have that Express grow in mix that's offsetting our overall ASP that you are seeing.
Got it.
Thanks that's very helpful.
And then the second question Easter came a couple of weeks earlier than it did last year.
So I wanted to ask if there was any effect on demand maybe it pushed some orders from March into April.
So I guess maybe if you could comment on March relative to April to just let know if there is any affect there.
I think both year -- Easter was in April both year slightly earlier this year and we don’t see a big impact there as David said earlier April’s continued the same trend we saw through the March quarter.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Hello guys.
Can you hear me? Yeah sure.
Good to see you Stephen.
Are you there? Hello Stephen.
Yeah okay.
Sorry about that technical issues.
First question relates to Express and Emerald you know you have kind of been at this now for about a year or more in the case of Emerald but I am curious about how your thoughts are evolving around the product design? And what -- how to refine the product offering in Express and Emerald? What are the advantage of course that you had been kind of early in launching this product.
I imagine when you first came out you had an expectation for what your customers would be looking for and I was wondering if you could share directionally what you have found if you gone out there have you found for example at Express people have been looking for not just the really small boxes but that also there is some willingness to maybe move up in terms of size.
And in the Emerald has there been any preference for maybe a little more design or dirt [ph] sales so that they can really kind of customize it more than you initially anticipated when you rolled that product out.
Stephen when we first launched Emerald we were launching a brand that was different than what the perception of D.
R.
Horton had been in the past and so we built really really [indiscernible] ourselves.
And I think as we have met with these customers and kind of defined what they are looking for we are modifying that and we are ultimately it kind of comes back to the same thing that’s on the Express side.
People want a great value at a great location and so yes we are really kind of simplifying what we are doing on Emerald side focusing on location but delivering competitive house in that market.
Within the Express product we have tried to be consistent with the product offering but we have been sensitive to the markets and where is demand for greater square footage we are certainly delivering that and adjusting the mix community by community to meet what that buyer is looking for in that community.
It is not a one size fits all approach it is not just the smallest house as you said it’s driven by a family need of the bedroom count since we are -- footage that they need and with the Express efficiencies we gain we can deliver that value and deliver that a square footage at the price they can get the mortgage for.
And would you launch Express or Emerald across all of our markets I mean you are going to learn a lot and you are going to make modifications to improve returns through the process.
We are looking at the market we are identifying where we can get better and we are pushing to get better.
So if I could paraphrase what I think I heard you say is it sounds like in Emerald there is maybe an emphasis to really if anything do less customization and maybe a little bit more that would lead probably to a little more spec activity but more of a focus on value.
And in Express I hear that there is some elasticity upwards in terms of the size of the homes.
Did I just generally hear that right? It would be 100% correct.
Okay.
My second question relates to conversation rate backlog conversation rate.
I think you gave guidance for conversation rate you are just a little bit higher than where you were last year and that would represent a deceleration in turnover rate from what you did in the second quarter.
Generally speaking we think of conversation rates or backlog turnover rates going up as you do more spec activity and what we are seeing here from the way we model your spec activity it’s continued to go up but yet you seem to be looking for a bit of moderation in your backlog turnover rate.
And so I was curious if you could talk a little bit about why that is is there some exogenous factor that we are not thinking about here or you are just being conservative on your backlog turnover rate or if you can reconcile that for me that will be great.
You know we did exceed our expectations in the second quarter higher than our range and a bit higher jump in the backlog conversation from Q1 to Q2 than we have seen in the past.
What we are guiding to for Q3 in the range of 78% to 80% is conversion [ph] is higher than our conversion rate last year.
It is also in line with what we are seeing in our business and in our updated forecast really from the community level up.
So that’s really a large part of what drives our guidance on conversion rate is what our guys what our operators are telling us they are going to do.
We have had great sales in Q1 and so our backlog is up significantly and certainly we will -- we are going to be focused on closing every home that we can that’s ready to close and in whatever period it’s ready but today based on the plans that we have in our business the visibility we have in our business it lines up with that high 70s to 80% conversion rate for Q3.
And Steve if you look at the last five years we really had been a slight tick down from Q2 to Q3 in our backlog conversion rates.
So what we are projecting is in line with our sequential changes over the last few years.
Yeah got it on seasonality.
Thank you very much guys I appreciate it and good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning and nice quarter.
Just one question for me I just want to understand your comment obviously you are getting tremendous demand with the entry level product and from a mix standpoint I think that would drag down your ASP which continued to increase.
So I am just trying to understand from a modeling standpoint whether it’s third quarter or fourth quarter does ASP start to turn negative on a year-over-year basis just because you are selling more of the Express Homes? Bob we’ve really from the start of the year we said we did expect our ASP growth to moderate to the low single digit range and that’s where it is today.
There is a number of factors that offset and it’s a little difficult to say whether it will continue to be slightly up flat or slightly down.
I wouldn’t say we have an expectation it could be down.
Certainly as Express grows that does pull the ASP down.
But we are seeing good sales in Horton good sales in Emerald.
We are seeing pricing power in a number of our communities as well.
So that ASP is one of the most difficult things to predict exactly where it’s going to be quarter-to-quarter.
So I think we would stay consistent with what we have said all along this year expect it to continue to moderate and to the extent it’s up it will be up in the low single digits.
Got it and the other question nobody has really touched on it how to think about land spend and land acquisition in terms of the cycle and where you are at? Thanks very much.
I think so far this year we are about consistent in our land spending and largely looking at replacements of the lots that we have been delivering.
We feel like we have got a very strong owned and controlled lot position over 170 000 lots available for us.
So I don’t see a huge growth in our land acquisition spending at the present time but we still do see opportunities in all of our markets and we will continue to invest.
I think the key for us right now is we don’t have to buy anything.
We are in a very strong position where we see A plus deals than we can -- we are moving on those with a lot of energy and a lot of aggression.
Just to replenish our lot supply at the level of volume we are at today there is still going to be significant investment.
It will be north of $2 billion $2.0 billion to $2.3 billion somewhere in here in land spend for the year consistent with last year.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
The next question today is coming from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thank you.
My first question I understand that there on a total community basis the community count growth has been fairly modest.
But wondering just given the rollouts in Emerald and Express if you can breakdown you said sales doubled in Emerald sales tripled in Express what was community count growth versus absorption in those two parts specifically? Mike we haven’t actually disclosed our community count in total or by brand.
But clearly we are growing our Express community count at a faster rate than the rest of the company.
In absolute terms the number of homes sold doubled -- or tripled and then on Emerald we are growing that still we are growing it at a slightly slower rate than we are Express but our absorptions improved dramatically in both of these brands in addition to having some community count growth as well.
Got it and then this is my second question if we think about Express and how is the product that we have seen in person it seems like the strength in absorption is such that the backlog delivery times have stretched out call it five six months and so just wondering at what point do you think you have maxed out sales velocity in terms of absorption at Express and so incrementally you’re likely to just see growth coming from the community rollout versus incremental gains and absorption at Express? It’s a project by project comment.
I will tell you we have a lot of projects out there where we continue to expect absorption for community to increase.
Some we have maxed out and then some are our bigger Express offerings.
We are building everything we can build on it.
So in those projects we’re taking margins up.
My comment would be no different in a Horton community or an Emerald community that’s the case community by community across our country all the time.
Okay thank you.
That’s a very good problem.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks good morning everyone.
First question I had was just wanted to circle back to the pricing trends during the quarter.
I think David in your initial comments you kind of just characterized the market overall as healthy and relatively stable demand growing moderately and I think just you kind of highlighted as well that you are still raising prices in a bunch of communities but overall how would you characterize the pricing environment? I mean what we’ve heard is kind of just kind of stable to maybe just slightly increasing and incentives by and large incentives/discounts by and large stable.
I mean obviously market to market that varies but on a broad basis is that kind of what you’re seeing? That’s pretty much the market out there right now.
It’s a great market for us because we’ve got the land we’ve got the operating platform we’ve got the people in place.
So we’re not having to make any investments.
We’re just riding the market.
It jumps up then labor becomes a bigger issue and some of the higher price land that have been bought by others becomes competitive and we like the way deals run it’s a good market for us or consistent absorptions are consistent margins are consistent yes just continuing to gain market share.
Yes no certainly and I guess just the second question here I appreciate all the detailed guidance for the year and like you said kind of tightening the ranges here and there.
One area of focus for many is the gross margins and that did come in a little bit of course on the flip side you slightly raised the closings and revenue and lowered SG&amp;A.
So don’t want to exclude that but people do focus on the gross margins the slight lowering of the range or lowering the high end of the range could you just elaborate on what was the driver there is it mix is it maybe costs coming in slightly higher any color there would be helpful.
Michael I think we’re seeing there we are six months into the year at this point.
So we’ve been through a very good spring selling season.
We posted two quarters of margin in the 19.7% 19.8% range and looking forward we see continued stability around that level.
So it’s not necessarily price pressure that’s come in to play.
I think we’re seeing that our pricing relative to our sales price our cost increases relative to sales prices have moderated and we’re not losing ground there.
We’re seeing some stability in our reported margins and probably in our go forward margin at this point.
So at this point half way through the year at the turn we’re looking to kind of tighten that range down around what we posted.
We’re very pleased with that to find that stable level in our normal range and obviously we’ll work to improve it in here.
And you alluded that mix change does have an impact on this our Express margins which are making up a bigger percentage of our deliveries are at a slightly lower margin rates on average with their faster absorptions than the company average right now.
Right okay.
No fair enough appreciate it thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Susan Maklari from UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
First in terms of the Express product can you tell us a little bit about your ability or your confidence in realizing the efficiencies that you see in those sort of core three markets where you’re currently selling through as you expand into the rest of your areas? The Express was designed to be a very efficient product to build and as we build it more and more times we’re getting better and better at delivering it and that’s across all three of those markets.
Okay and then in terms of material pricing and any of labor constraint can you just sort of talk to that and if there’s anything we should be aware of there? Part of what I think it’s going to be one of the big constraints in this cycle is going to be labor.
And we are focused on creating efficient plans that will allow us to build more houses with less labor and that’s been an ongoing effort now for really the last couple of years.
Susan as Mike just alluded on one of the previous questions we have seen our rate has increased and our cost come down a bit.
So our stick and brick cost per square foot this quarter was up about 4.5% on a year-over-year basis and that still wasn’t in line with our revenues but it’s a smaller increase than we’ve been seeing and headed in the right direction.
Sequentially we actually saw our stick and brick cost increase per square foot almost essentially in line with what our price per square foot did.
So we’ve made a lot of progress on that front and we plan to continue to do so as we move throughout the year.
Okay great.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Will Randow from Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning and thank you for taking my question.
In terms of this cycle versus past cycles how are you thinking about cash and cash returns or said it differently given I would call that certainly a slowdown but from a land investment perspective you’re not buying at I recall the same year-on-year pace you previously were would it make sense to step up the dividend or think about some other capital returns to shareholders? First as we look at our land supply we did make a lot investments early in the cycle and so we built up our land supply to a very sufficient level to support really strong top line growth for a few years here.
So we are working into that and so our requirements to increase our land supply really not there right now.
So the pace of spending has slowed but as we said earlier our pace will continue to be at a very strong pace in terms of reinvesting in the business.
We’re constantly evaluating our opportunities to invest market by market.
We’re focused on achieving a 20% ROI so pretax income over average inventory on every project that we invest in.
It’s one of our key investment criteria and to the extent we were finding deals that can do that in markets that we feel confident in we’ll continue to invest strongly in our business.
That being said we do expect and one of our goals is to continue to improve our cash flow.
We did see and are seeing improvement in our cash flows from operations.
We’ve improved year-to-date a 100 million or better in terms of cash use from operations this year versus last year and we believe we’ll see significant improvement by the end of the year on a year-over-year basis.
So heading towards the breakeven and hopefully a positive cash flow position.
We’re focused right now on achieving that and when we achieve that certainly that opens up a lot of flexibility for us either to invest further in the business to look at other opportunities to look at distributions to shareholders as well all those things come into play when we get to a stronger cash flow position.
Thanks for that and just a quick follow up on Texas.
It seems like from our vantage point things slowed a little bit in January and February and then snapped back towards the end of March.
I guess from that perspective what activity have you seen and there’s a big differentiation point between your higher ASP homes and your lower ASP homes and thanks again.
I don’t think we’ve seen anything in Texas outside of our expectations and pretty consistent performance across our price points.
Our exposure in Texas is long and deep.
We’ve been here a long time it’s home and our presence in the markets is very tailored to the individual markets and we’ve not seen anything outside in Texas that’s occurring outside of our expectations right now.
We do watch it closely but we are very happy with Texas’ performance.
These are normal seasonal trends Will in January and February.
So our sales cadence in Texas was increasing as we moved throughout January and February which is what we would expect as we move into the early part of spring.
I have been in almost every project every slide [ph] that we have in Texas over the last month and a half.
And I can tell you there is no defining point about whether one of them is doing really well or not doing well.
Across the board they are almost 100% on target and at the price point of the Express or the price point of Emerald.
Texas is a good market for us right now.
Thanks again.
I appreciate the time.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Jack Micenko from SIG.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Looking at the regional order trends I mean we had East up 40 Southeast up mid-30s Central up mid-30s and then Southwest was below that cluster.
Guessing that’s a community count growth driven issue is that a strategic plan or do you think community count in the Southwest will grow which should help the overall growth rates in coming quarters? You know that Southwest is one of our smaller regions and it’s only made up of few markets including Phoenix and you are right that our community count is impacting their sales rate and their community count was down this quarter and their absorptions were up.
But their absorptions were a little bit slower than the company average and at really no point is Phoenix continuing to be a little bit more of a challenging market for us than other parts of the country that are just growing faster.
Phoenix is a great city.
Phoenix is going to be a great housing market again it’s not there right now but we have big expectations for Phoenix down the road.
Okay great and then you have grown Express from 13% to 18% of sales sequentially.
You also talked about getting into more -- most markets I guess by the end of the year.
With your land pipeline in your sort of near-term how do we think about Express from a mix I mean is it 20% 25% 30% I mean how big of a component of the business does it become in the foreseeable future? Yes we certainly would expect to get up into the high 20s exactly where that lands for the long-term is hard to say but it wouldn’t surprise us if it got to the high 20% to 30% in terms of units and that may translate to 20% of revenues but really we are focused project by project market by market expanding where it makes sense and where locations are good and then we will see where it lands.
And we are laying out a plan and just kind of thinking about the business long-term we would expect at some point Emerald to be about 20% of our revenue Express to be about 20% of our revenue and the core Horton brand to be the balance of 60%.
Great that’s helpful.
That’s good balance gives us coverage in every market that’s kind of the long-term plan.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question today is coming from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Just quickly on the inventory impairment can you provide any color on what drove that and how that split between options walk away cost and anything one time or community specific? Jade we had I believe $8 million of impairments this quarter that was primarily related to one community in South Florida that we have owned for a long time that the opportunity came to sell it and we thought that was a better use of cash to be able to reinvest the cash with some current investment opportunities.
There were about $4 million of option write-offs and earnest money due diligence cost that we rolled off during the quarter for projects we are not pursuing.
And Jade we have said consistently for a while that we are sort of working through actively on our former land held for development or moth balled communities and that’s a source of cash for us and we are trying to turn those inactive unproductive assets into productive ones.
So most of the projects that we have pulled out of mothball we put into production we are building houses on and we haven’t had any impairment charges but there are the occasional projects we have had and we might have a few more that the best answer is to sell it and those have a higher risk or higher likelihood of having some impairment chargers but I would tell you in general our expectations for charges going forward are definitely lower and we expect fewer charges again going forward over the next year then we have seen over the past 12 months.
Great thanks.
And regarding the orders growth I was wondering if you anticipate a moderation in the year-over-year pace of orders growth from the strong 30% level just given last year’s strong comps in the second-half of the year.
Jade we have really just guided to what we expect to do this year in terms of closings.
I don’t think we want to make any educated guesses on sales but clearly we have to drive a good sales pace to hit the closings guidance that we went ahead and updated this quarter.
So high 20s to 30% is our guidance for year-over-year and we have to sell at that pace to close at that pace.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ryan Gilbert [ph] from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up on the commentary on land spend you guys said you are largely looking at every place of land the land is being delivered would this indicate a continue deceleration in year-over-year community count openings? Right now we expect it to remain relatively stable.
Our expectations all year have been that we would continue to see relatively stable to slightly up low single-digit on community counts and I think that continues to be our expectation for the short to medium term that’s something we are always evaluating as we are making our investment decisions.
Okay great thanks.
And then just on the overall absorption level absorptions have been increasing at a very rapid pace over the past three quarters.
Are you getting to a level just companywide that you are more comfortable with or do you think there is still room to continue pushing absorption growth higher? I think we have some on communities that we talked about before we do have a limit that we probably hit but there are certainly several communities we have that we identified for increases in absorptions.
So we will continue to look to operate the company on a community by community basis at the right pace for that community to drive the expected returns.
As we look throughout company we always like plenty of opportunities to get better and plenty of opportunities to improve.
So we will keep doing that.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Buck Horne from Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey thanks good morning.
I appreciate the additional color you guys offered on the FHA and VA loan percentages at the mortgage spec.
I was curious though could you may be provide any detail on how many of your mortgage closings are coming from 0% down financing including USDA and/or VA loans any -- and in just a broader sense are you seeing a return to the drive to your qualified type mentality among buyers? What we have seen in terms of VA is pretty consistent.
It ticked slightly down.
So we will have this in our supplementary data on the investor part of our website after the call.
But our VA percentage was 18% and we also saw a slight decrease in our USDA percentage from what we have been running down to 5%.
So those were the two products most likely and to have zeroed down in them I don’t have [indiscernible] are overall zero down.
In terms of driving the qualified we are going to a little further out in some cases for Express to hit that value proposition and people do still want to seem to do that but in terms of where our communities are located today compared to kind of back during the boom we are not nearly back out those areas again and there might some of the those areas we don’t ever go back to.
I appreciate that.
And my follow-up is just going back to the Texas discussion obviously doesn’t look like you are seeing much sign of slow down at the entry level in fact there is a lot of people still going -- migrating into those markets with your numbers but some competitors have noted maybe some softening at the higher price points where you maybe a move up market or white color jobs that might be at risk in those markets.
Have you guys seen any signs of moderation in Houston or otherwise at some of the higher price points in those markets? We are in the higher price points but we are in the higher price points really positioned over the last couple of years and there are locations that for us at least today we are not seeing any slowdown.
Maybe it's there are areas where people were selling higher priced homes that are seeing a slowdown.
But our experience today is that the locations we have chosen and entered in last couple of years are still very high demand.
When we launched the Emerald brand we focused on location.
And that has been a prudent focus.
All right.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
We've reached the end of our question-and-answer session.
I’d like to turn the floor back over to management for any further or closing comments.
Thank you David.
We appreciate everyone's time on the call today and look forward to speaking with you in July.
I'd like to personally thank our people out there for the outstanding results of the last quarter and the way you are positioned for the quarter coming up.
We appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America’s Builder the largest builder in the United States Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It’s now my pleasure to introduce your host Jessica Hansen Vice President of Investor Relations for D.
R.
Horton.
Please go ahead Jessica.
Thank you Kevin.
Good morning and welcome to our call to discuss our financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2015.
Before we get started today’s call may include comments that constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton’s annual report on Form 10-K and our most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For your convenience this morning’s earnings release can be found on our website at investor.drhorton.com and we plan to file our 10-Q later today.
After the conclusion of the call we will post updated supplementary historical data on the presentation section of our investor relations site for your reference.
The supplementary information which we encourage you to review includes historical data on gross margins changes in active selling community product mix and our mortgage operation.
Now I will turn the call over to David Auld our President and CEO.
Thank you Jessica and good morning.
In addition to Jessica I am pleased to be joined on this call by Mike Murray our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Bill Wheat our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our D.R.
Horton team delivered an outstanding third quarter.
Our pre-tax income increased to $334 million on $3 billion of revenues and our pre-tax margin improved 330 basis points to 11.3%.
Our sales absorptions continue to improved during the quarter as our homes sold increased by 22% from a year-ago on only a slight increase in active selling communities.
This reflects strong performance in our core D.R.
Horton communities and growth of our Emerald Homes and Express Homes brands which are enable us to expand our product offerings and our industry leading market share.
Our continued strategic focus is to leverage our operating platform to produce double-digit growth in both revenue and pretax profits while generating positive cash flows and increasing our returns.
During the third quarter we generated $357 million positive cash flow from operations.
With a sales backlog of 12 761 homes at the end of June.
Solid sales trends in July and a well-stocked supply of land plots and homes we are well positioned to finish our year strong and have an even stronger 2016.
Mike? Net income for the third quarter increased 96% to $221 million or $0.60 per diluted share compared to $113 million or $0.32 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Our consolidated pre-tax income increased 94% to $334 million in the third quarter compared to $172 million in the year-ago quarter.
And home building pre-tax income increased 90% to $302 million compared to $159 million in the prior year quarter.
Our third quarter home sales revenues increased 37% to $2.9 billion on 9 856 homes closed up from $2.1 billion on 7 676 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $290 000 up 7% compared to the prior year driven primarily by an increase in our average sales price per square foot and to a lesser extent of larger average home size.
Bill? The value of our net sales orders in the third quarter increased 25% from the year-ago quarter just $3 billion.
And homes sold increased 22% to 10 398 homes on 1% increase in active selling communities.
Our average sales price on net sales orders in the third quarter increased 3% to $289 400.
The calculation rate for the third quarter was 22% compared to 24% in the year-ago quarter.
The value of our backlog increased 15% from a year-ago to $3.7 billion with an average sales price per home of $293 400 and homes in backlog increased 12% to 12 761 homes.
Our backlog conversion rate for the third quarter was 81%.
We expect our fourth quarter backlog conversion rate to be in the range of 81% to 84% up from 76% in the fourth quarter of last year.
Jessica? We are experiencing strong growth in revenues and profitability in our D.R.
Horton branded communities which accounted for the substantial majority of our sales and closings this quarter.
We also continued to be pleased with the progress and performance of our Emerald Homes and Express Homes brands.
Emerald Homes our brand for higher-end move-up and luxury communities is now available in 46 markets across 18 states.
In the third quarter homes price greater than $500 000 accounted for 16% of our home sales revenue and 7% of our homes closed.
Our Express homes brand which is targeted at the true entry-level buyer focused primarily on affordability is currently being offered in 44 markets and 14 states with the significant majority of our Express sales and closings to-date coming from Texas Florida and the Carolina.
This quarter Express accounted for 19% of our homes sold 16% of homes closed and 10% of home sales revenue.
The average closing price in an Express Home in the third quarter was $188 000.
We are striving to be the leading builder in each of our operating markets with all three of our brands and we plan to maintain consistent broad diversity in our product offerings over the long-term.
Bill? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the third quarter was 19.9% up 20 basis points from the second quarter.
The consistency in our gross margin in the first three quarters of the year reflects the stability of most of our markets today and the normalization of housing market conditions we have seen over the last year.
We are raising price or reducing incentives when possible in communities where we are achieving our target absorptions and we are working to control cost increases.
These factors have enabled our gross margins to stabilize within our normal historical range.
Our general gross margin expectations remain unchanged from what we have shared the past several quarters.
In the current housing environment we continue to expect our average home sales gross margin to generally be around 20% with quarterly fluctuations that may range from 19% to 21% due to product and geographic mix and the relative impact of warranty and interest costs.
As a reminder our reported gross margins include all of our interest costs.
For the upcoming fourth quarter we expect our home sales gross margin will be consistent with our margins for the first three quarters of the year in the high 19s to 20%.
Mike? Homebuilding SG&amp;A expense for the quarter was $258 million compared to $222 million in the prior year quarter.
As a percentage of home building revenues our SG&amp;A improved 160 basis points to 9% compared to 10.6% in the prior year quarter as our significant revenue increased this quarter improved our leverage of fixed overhead cost.
Based on our projected backlog conversion we expect our SG&amp;A as a percentage of homebuilding revenues in the fourth quarter to be in the range of 8.7% to 8.9% which would be a year-over-year improvement of 100 to 120 basis points we are very pleased that our homebuilding SG&amp;A in fiscal 2015 will be below our longstanding targeted 10% and we believe we will further improve our SG&amp;A leverage in fiscal 2016.
Jessica? Financial services pre-tax income in the third quarter increased 140% to $31.7 million from $13.2 million in the year-ago quarter.
88% of our mortgage company’s loan originations during the quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operation.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 49% of the mortgage company's volume compared to 43% in the year-ago quarter.
Borrowers originating loans with our mortgage company in this quarter had an average FICO score of 716 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 89%.
Mike? At the end of June we had 21 200 homes in inventory of which 1 600 were models 9 400 were spec homes in all stages of construction and 3 600 of these specs were completed.
Our construction in progress and finished homes inventory decreased by $100 million during the quarter while our number of homes in inventory remains relatively stable.
Our completed specs declined by 12% during the quarter.
Our third quarter investments in lots land and development totaled $575 million of which $311 million was to replenish finished lots and land while $264 million was for land development.
Our residential land and lot inventory increased by $82.5 million during the quarter.
David? At June 30 2015 our lot portfolio consisted of 120 000 owned lots with an additional 54 000 lots controlled through option contracts.
65 000 of our lots were finished of which 32 000 are owned and 33 000 are options.
Our 174 000 were total loan lots owned and controlled provide us a strong competitive advantage in the current housing market with a sufficient lot supply to supports strong growth in sales and closings in future periods.
Although our housing inventories will fluctuate if we manage each of our communities to optimized returns we expect our land and lot inventories to remain relatively stable during the remainder of 2015 and in 2016 which will allow continued positive cash flow from operations.
In the third quarter we generated $357 million of positive cash flow.
For the nine month period ended June we generated $189 million an improvement of $762 million from the same period in the prior year.
Bill? During the third quarter we recorded $3.7 million in land options charges for write-offs of earnest money deposits and due diligence costs for projects that we do not intend to pursue.
We also recorded $11.7 million of inventory impairment charges of which $7.4 million were in our West region primarily related to a long-held inactive land parcels that we intend to sell to improve our returns by redeploying the capital into more productive assets.
Our inactive land held for development of $235 million at the end of the quarter represents 12 800 lots down 25% from a year-ago.
We continue to formulate our operating plans to work through each of our remaining inactive land parcels to improve cash flows and returns and we expect that our land held for development will continue to decline.
We also will continue to evaluate our inactive land parcels for potential impairment which may result in additional impairment charges in future periods but the timing and magnitude of these charges will fluctuate as they have in the past.
Mike? During the quarter we acquired the homebuilding operations at Pacific Ridge Homes for $70.9 million of cash of which $2 million was paid subsequent to quarter end.
Pacific Ridge operates in Seattle Washington.
We acquired approximately 90 homes in inventory 350 lots as well as control of approximately 400 additional lots through option contracts.
We also acquired a sales order backlog of 42 homes valued at $18.7 million.
Bill? At June 30 our homebuilding liquidity included $767 million of unrestricted homebuilding cash and $881 million available capacity on our revolving credit facility.
We had no cash borrowings and $94.3 million of letters of credit outstanding on the revolver.
Our gross homebuilding leverage ratio was 37.5% and our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash was 31.6%.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at June 30 was $3.3 billion.
We have no debt maturities for the remainder of fiscal 2015 and we have a total of $543 million of senior note maturities in the next 12 months.
At June 30 our shareholders equity balance was $5.6 billion and book value per share was $15.35 up 13% from a year-ago.
Jessica? Looking forward to the fourth quarter we expect our number of homes closed to approximate the beginning backlog conversion rate in the range of 81% to 84% and then average sales price in the range of $285 000 to $290 000.
We anticipate our home sales gross margin in the fourth quarter will be consistent with the first three quarters of the year in the high 19s to 20% subject to potential fluctuations from product mix warranty and interest costs.
We expect our fourth quarter homebuilding SG&amp;A to be in the range of 8.7% to 8.9% of homebuilding revenues.
We estimate that our fourth quarter financial services operating margins will be in the range of 35% to 40%.
We expect our tax rate in the fourth quarter to be between 35% and 36% and our fourth quarter diluted share count to be approximately 371 million shares.
Our projected revenues and profitability for the full year of fiscal 2015 are inline with the expectations we’ve been communicating since the beginning of our fiscal year.
Our expectations are based on today’s housing market conditions.
Our current preliminary expectations for fiscal 2016 also our consolidated revenues to grow by approximately 10% to 15% and for our consolidated pre-tax margin to be in the range of 10.5% to 11%.
We also expect to generate positive cash flow from operations of approximately $300 million to $500 million for the full fiscal year which we expect these primarily towards debt maturity.
We anticipate our tax rate for fiscal 2016 will be between 35% and 36% and then our diluted share count next year will increase by approximately 1%.
David? In closing our third quarter growth in sales closings and profits is a result of the strength of our operating platform and we are excited about the opportunities ahead.
With the expectations Jessica shared for the fourth quarter – we believe our closings for the full year of 2015 will increase by approximately 27% representing an increase of 8 000 homes.
And land right in the middle of the range outlined in the start of the year of around 36 500 homes.
We remain focused on growing both our revenue and pre-tax profits at a double-digit pace for generating positive cash flows and increasing our returns.
We are well positioned to do so with our solid balance sheet industry leading market share broad geographic footprint diversified product offerings across our D.R.
Horton Emerald and Express brands.
Attractive finished lot and land positions and most importantly our tremendous team across country.
We made considerable progress this year toward our goal of producing sustainable positive cash flow from operations.
While still growing the business we generated $189 million of cash in the first nine months of the year an improvement of $762 million from the same period of 2014.
We expect continued positive cash flow in 2016.
We’d like to thank all of our employees for their continued hard work.
In my opinion the best of the industry.
Now go forth and finish the year strong.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We will host any questions.
Thank you at this time we will be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Good morning Ken.
Good morning Ken.
David you talked about FY16.
You didn't have to go there no one even asked you.
Can you walk us through the process of why you wanted to do that now? Your revenue top line of 10% to 15% what type of community count does that involve or absorption or just talk about how you kind of get there and the confidence around your EBIT given a very strong fourth quarter SG&amp;A guidance? Kind of a broad question but take what you want.
Well right Ken.
No I guess I’m excited because I think we just delivered a great quarter.
But I think the positioning we did or have done over the last 12 18 months has set us up for a good run.
And we just see general solid markets across the country nothings exploding but everything seems to be getting a little better on the month to month quarter to quarter basis.
And a waiver position and what we’re focused on right now and what we’ve accomplished leveraging the SG&amp;A and just controlling cost I think it sets us up to containing what we’ve been doing.
On the community count front Ken the 10% to 15% consolidated revenue growth that’s really mainly driven by volume coupled with a little bit of price and in terms of community count we would expected to be low maybe top out mid-single digit growth.
So the majority of that revenue growth is coming from further improvement in our absorptions.
And we’re not guiding to the 20% to 30% of next year like we did this year.
So we don’t have to expand our absorptions quite as dramatically as we did in fiscal 2015 but still very confident that we can drive further absorption improvement as we move throughout 2016.
Very helpful.
Now because you had such strong pricing momentum year-over-year you have been right about six.
It sounds like you do not expect your successful mix shift towards Express to result in price degradation realizing there is different mix pricing mix there between your different products.
You said positive price correct? I think it kind of flat to moderate price improvement yes and that’s what we’ve seen thus for.
We came into the year expecting relatively flat pricing due and part due to the expectations of mix shift to Express and while Express that certainly grown shortly as a percentage of our business that impact has been offset by price appreciation and to the extent we continue to see current market conditions as we move into 2016 hopefully that will continue.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes thanks very much guys.
Very encouraging to see your land spend being very disciplined.
It is something that I certainly applaud what you are doing there and I think it is going to be very interesting.
So I guess my first question would be with respect to if you can continue to generate this kind of cash you have already said this year you're looking to do applying it to the paydown what should we expect going forward in 2016? I know that in the past there has been some talk about your wanting to run at a much lower level of leverage than you have in the past but I also know there's been a little bit of conversation about that shall we say at the corporate office.
So I was wondering where your thoughts are right now in terms of where that is going to be in 2016? A very opportunistic excuse me.
We’re going to spend $2 billion plus just replacing what we deliver as we consistently generate and prove at a sustainable.
It’s going to give us a lot of opportunity I guess we’ll sure that when we get there.
And just to clarify Stephen the comments towards debt reduction were specific to fiscal 2016.
We have $543 million in maturities in the next 12 months.
So that would be what we expect in fiscal 2016 and then when we’re looking further out we’ll have more commentary to share later.
But as David said opportunistic.
Got it okay that’s helpful.
That will continue to watch that.
My next question I guess relates to Express.
You know obviously good success over there.
We have observed that your average price within Express has been rising pretty meaningful I think it was up 19% this quarter and it’s been kind of accelerating there.
I was curious if you get sort of share little bit about what is going on there I imagine some of that maybe just geographic mix shift.
But perhaps or something additional going on there where you – in terms of the kind of buyer that you are seeing come out for your profit – just if could share some thoughts there? Steve this is Mike.
Most of what we’re seeing with the Express price changes is mix shift as we’ve introduce it to more markets that have the higher bar for the industry level buyer.
We’re seeing the result of those come through in the closing.
Okay.
Pretty much the same thing.
Level of buyer buying the Express product.
Got it.
And in terms of where the markets are that you’re going to.
What should we be thinking about that? Most of it – where you’re seeing the impact in this quarter’s ASP has been closing from – the state of Florida.
Great success in Florida introducing Express over the past year and we’re starting to see a greater proportion of the Express closings coming from Florida with the higher sales prices.
We’re still about 80% of what we’re doing in Express is Texas Florida and the Carolina and the sizes in that order for those states in terms of percentage contribution.
And we’re opening that in a lot of other places but the vast majority of Express sales and closing to-date are in those three states.
All right thanks very much guys.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen East from Evercore ISI.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
When you in your prepared remarks I think everybody believes your volume growth is coming from express myself included but it sounded like more of this was coming from your core Horton brand.
Is that a fair representation of what's going on and could you talk about maybe the trends within the three products and where the gross margins breakout in the three products? Yes Steve this is Bill.
We’re seeing growth really across all of our brands a solid growth solid demand across all of our brands and actually with the roll out of Express being introduced into more and more markets.
It is growing as a percentage of our overall business as we introduced the product in more markets but just when we look at all three brands we’re seeing solid solid growth across all three.
In terms of relative gross margins as we’ve kind of sale all along our expectations and what we’ve seen is the Express comes in a little bit below our average margin for the company but we’ve been encouraged by the margins that we’ve been able to generate in Express and then our expectations for our Emerald our higher end product is that it will generate a bit higher gross margin than the average but our return expectations are the same across all brands.
Okay.
And then geographically you talk some about Florida in the rollout is that what really drove that market that was the Express rollout and could you talk some about Texas what you are seeing any impact with energy in Houston that type of thing.
The Florida market in general is just getting better really across all three brands.
The rollout which impacted for pricing mix on this Express was – initially launched we launched in Central Florida middle part of the state much more price competitive then we’re introducing the product later which is kind of Southeast Southwest.
So you are just seeing a lift from those two various which I think it is a part of the overall increase in pricing in Express.
But now state of Florida we feel very good about that.
And then you mentioned Texas we are seeing solid demand across Texas Texas is so extremely strong for us and we saw essentially our South Central region is largely Texas and so we are very pleased with the performance across the state of Texas.
Okay North Houston dynamics going on right now with oil.
Certainly we continue to watch Houston on a year-over-year basis Houston sales were basically flat saw higher average prices this year than last year in Houston but clearly the Dallas market continues to be extremely strong San Antonio seems to be picking up for us a bit and Houston continues to be solid for us as well.
All right.
We definitely watching Houston but we’re just still be at the level it is it’s still encouraging.
Okay thanks.
We grew very fast in Houston for about three or four years so kind of a flat year-over-year this year it is actually? It take the replenishing community count in that market is that a problem with land pricing moving up? We were very well positioned in Houston 2012 2013 and the community counts in Houston again are very well positioned.
We are still opening communities we’ve been preparing the open for the last year year and a half.
Okay.
The prices mixed actions and so.
Got you.
All right thanks.
Thanks.
Your next question today is coming from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks first question I wanted to ask you mentioned solid sales trends continuing into July there has been some concern obviously with rates rising whether some threats to consumer confidence so I was wondering if you could just take down into that a little bit and you now how things look to from the end of the Spring selling season into the Summer and just your thoughts if any of those specific concerns if you have any perspective on whether or not that – those have affected your trends or not? Well if we get up everyday thinking about sales so yes if we’re up 30% we’re concerned we are not up 50 we’re up 20 we are concerned we are not up 30.
That’s just the nature of our journey.
But we travel in the markets down moving this right now driving sales divisions.
And the general field across pretty much every market is it’s a little better today than it was last year.
And there is a confidence in our operators there is a confidence in our sales in our model homes traffic is steady.
So it’s been a slow recovery but consistent and it just seems to continuing so we feel good about that.
Got it.
So would be fair to say then it sounds like the momentum that we’ve seen so far this year as persisted into the summer.
Correct.
Got it great.
Okay.
And I wanted to also ask about the cash flow very impressive cash flow performance this quarter.
I think you guided to $300 million to $500 million if I got the number correctly for next year and fourth quarter your next quarter is typically pretty big cash flow quarter as well.
Your guidance implied that share count will ride so no share buybacks in your debt paydown.
My question was with cash flow so strong your with your net debt to cap fairly low against the kind of typical to start building norm of 40% to 45%.
Have you given any thought to allocating some to share a purchases because we’re based on what you implying you can have a strong book value growth you get a paydown quite a bit of debt I mean you are going to continue to delever and you are going to be pretty far below that historic norm.
So what your thoughts on share buyback saying a little more balanced about reallocating that cash.
Yes Nishu.
We’re pleased to be in a positive cash flow position.
We’ve been focused on achieving this.
And we’re feel like we’re in a position now to continue to generate sustainable positive cash flow.
And we’re going to take a balanced approach to it.
We will always look first to our business to invest in the business and be opportunistic there to the extent that we can generate returns there and that will include acquisitions as we continue to steadily be in that market.
With over $500 million of debt maturities it coming to next year that is a higher priority for us in fiscal 2016.
But then certainly as we get into 2016 and we look beyond that other opportunities will be out there and available for us certainly we’ve continue to be a consistent dividend payer there is potential with that good increase as our earnings in cash flow continue.
And then share repurchases would be one of those items that we would look at in the balance as we are opportunistic and if we see that is a good return and that’s an appropriate use for our cash it will certainly be considered long side the other things.
Got it.
So the 1% increase in share count that you are talking about that’s a general range but there could be some flexibility around that.
I think there always been flexibility as we stand right now with no Express intent of repurchasing shares in 2016 we would expect our share count to rise by about 1%.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Robert Wetenhall from RBC.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning and a nice job on the quarter.
Just wanted to ask on your preliminary 2016 guidance you are coming in higher than we thought and higher than your pre-tax income margin for 2015.
So I’m just try to understand is the way we should think about the 10.5% to 11% range you gave derive from better gross margin performance or is that a SG&amp;A leverage.
Rob what we’re seeing we showed in the third quarter its an improved SG&amp;A leverage.
Margins were essentially flat throughout this year firmed up nice and stable and we’re seeing some improvement with our absorptions driving up in our communities.
We’re seeing improvements in our SG&amp;A leverage falling right to the operating margin improvements we’re seeing.
And we fully expect to continue that in the fiscal 2016.
Bob it is David.
I continue the general consensus is flat as we hit these absorption targets and as a market stays steady.
I do think there may be a little upside in margin but we’re going to guide to flat and attempt to do what we say we’re going to do.
Okay cool.
Those are ambitious targets I hope you get there.
I wanted to ask about your average order price is up almost 3% this quarter.
And just taking through you know you have easy comp in the fourth quarter but can you talk just about how you are thinking about the trajectory of pricing given mix.
There is some commentary about bigger four plans being a positive to more sales as the entry level product.
And I just kind of want to get a hand to one how you think this involves into 2016.
Thanks very much and good luck.
So Bob in terms of further price appreciation we’ll see ASPs one of the hardest things for us to determine we don’t necessarily look at Q4 is an easy comp though we had a very very strong up last Q4 I think in the high 30s is in reserves.
And so to us that’s not an easy comp.
But we’re going to continue going out and everyday hitting our targets on a community by community basis and continuing to drive sales improvement and it’s a markets there we’ll get the price.
But the markets really going to determine that and from where we sit today with the impact of mix from Express.
We would continue to expect our ASP to be flat to slightly up in fiscal 2016 versus fiscal 2015.
290 000 ASP on deliveries and just shy of that on sales is pretty much in all time record for us.
And with the continued mix impact from Express I don’t think we expect to necessarily move that needle a whole lot further.
It makes a lot of sense.
Good luck thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Eric Bosshard from Cleveland Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Two questions in regards to I guess leverage within the business that community count plan and leveraging SG&amp;A.
Just interested if strategically you’re thinking differently or having a different level of success in both of these areas.
That is one of the factors that’s helping your profitability improve? I think we’ve always – stressed leverage on the SG&amp;A line and getting as much as we can out of our fixed overhead and so what we’re seeing now is low to single-digit growth in our community counts driving greater absorptions from those communities.
And generally we’re probably replacing communities that are closing out with slightly larger communities they’re opening up allowing us greater opportunities for increased absorptions and better leverage at the community level.
For us this business all happens at the community level.
The pace we drive at a given community helps drive improvements in margin efficiencies in the construction processes as well as better leverage of the overhead associated with that community.
And when we look at SG&amp;A leverage to the extend that we drive a good part of our volume growth from increased absorptions.
In existing communities that drives even more SG&amp;A leverage than driving growth from community count increases.
So our focus there on improving absorptions is definitely a big driver for our SG&amp;A leverage and as we look at it – going forward we believe we got more opportunities to improve it.
And if I could one follow-up on gross margin after couple years of progress kind of step down it sounds like stable to – slightly favorable may be gross margin outlook.
Just talk a little bit about the moving pieces you’re seeing within gross margin now and as we project forward over the next 12 or 18 months? On a year-over-year basis Eric we continue to face headwinds.
Particularly on laboring materials and to a lesser extent lands but sequentially those trends have been getting better.
Which is what you’ve seen in the stability in our gross margin and sequentially as we’ve moved throughout this year.
So our gap is between our revenue increased per square foot and our cost increased per square foot this quarter.
With the best we’ve seen in quite some time our revenues per square foot were up 4.1% year-over-year while our stick and brick cost we’re still slightly higher than that but at 5.3%.
So that 120 bps different is one of the narrower we had over the last year year and a half.
And to a lesser extend – as expected we’re starting to see on a year-over-year basis slightly higher land cost on a per square footage basis as well.
But I think we feel really good about – moving into 2016 especially with the trends we’ve seen sequentially.
And hopefully we can see it benefit next year.
You know it’s only July so we’re not going to go out on a whole lot of wins yet as far as gross margins concerned in 2016.
But we feel very good about remaining stable and if we can move it up or we’re going to move it up.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Michael Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thank you.
Couple of follow-up questions.
First on the discussion around Houston I wanted to ask if you could give a little more of a breakdown on what you are seeing across price points obviously some other builders have talked about some weakness at the higher end or mid-to-high end.
And so what are you seeing across the different brands.
Is this really still just being driven by express and then also if the overall orders flat what is the community count like in Houston year-over-year.
Our community count is roughly a similar to what it would have been a year-ago.
Yes I think in general we’ve heard commentary from other builders as well.
We don’t have a huge presence at the high end.
We have a few communities at the higher end in Houston.
And so I’m not sure where a good proxy necessarily there.
But we have clearly continued to see very strong reception at the entry level and first time move up level so in our for express and Horton brands and that’s really where the core of our business is in Houston.
And along that… We are hopeful to get relatively well.
We’re very happy with Houston.
Okay.
So on a – I guess on a positive note then it’s a pretty strong trends in the Southwest.
And then so wondering how much that’s being driven by Phoenix or Vegas and what's the absorption trends in those markets specifically.
I hope we’re seeing out there a pretty much Arizona Phoenix is picking up a little bit seeing some good sales trend there but coming up a pretty small base.
So it shows us a large percentage but the prior year numbers where fairly small.
Las Vegas is actually in our West region.
So it’s not impacting our Southwest numbers at all.
Got it okay thanks.
We just like Phoenix for us has been a very good market in the past on a leading in the company.
And I have every belief that it will be again.
We’re seeing life in Phoenix and glad to see it.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks.
Good morning everyone and nice quarter.
First question I had was just going back to the SG&amp;A for a moment.
Obviously great improvement there and better than expected.
It looks like the full year will be around 9.6 instead of 9.9 to 10.2 your previous guidance.
Just tying to get a sense of perhaps what are the drivers of that leverage or was there any type of cost take outs that that you are able to exact as you kind of moved into back half of the year.
And again just confirming in terms of 2016 the pre-tax margin improvement all effectively at this point you expect to be driven by SG&amp;A as well? SG&amp;A will definitely be a big part of the driver of the improvement in our operating margin next year probably the primary driver at least as we sit here today in July.
SG&amp;A there is a lot of factors that go in there and there is a lot of focus that we spend in the company on it.
We talk a little bit earlier with our improved absorptions in our existing communities that’s clearly a driver of SG&amp;A leverages we’re not having to add the incremental cost with additional community counts.
But also I would attribute to some of our focus on being more efficient with our inventory investments in our housing investments trying to improve our turns there.
That clearly drives more SG&amp;A leverage.
That you will see our specs counts are little bit lower then where they have been here recently and that cuts out some SG&amp;A cost as well.
And I would say there is a just a general focus on the company that as we grow while we continue – have to continue to add overhead to support that growth in our expected growth.
There is a discipline that I think is in place across organization to make sure that we keep our overhead in line with where our businesses and that we don’t get ahead of ourselves there.
I just – there is probably a bit of caution with adding of additional overhead that I think we are now seeing some very good leverage from as we grow right.
I mean just looking little bit past next year when you think about you are at 9.6 this year if most of the improvement is going to be driven by SG&amp;A next year.
Because I believe correct me if I’m wrong but David I think you pointed to an outlook our expectation for gross margins to be flattish that would put you at a SG&amp;A closer to 9% and that’s essentially the best type of level you did.
In company history hit it low 9s in 2004 and 2005 and so.
As you think around that 9% mark is that something that you can actually improve from and what I’m really getting at here is – there is structural difference and how you’re running the business that can allow for SG&amp;A to get into the 8s as you progress into mid-cycle or just any thoughts around that? Mike at this point in July we are not going to guiding to a 9% SG&amp;A in fiscal 2016 as of yet but clearly if we expect to improve from where we are this year.
We would expect to get below 9.5 and into the low 9s next year and we have achieved 9.0 before in the past.
So it’s not all the realm of possibility.
We are focused on just continuing to incrementally improve incrementally leverage it.
And we do believe that if we are able to continue to drive growth for multiple years beyond 2016 that we can continue to drive incremental SG&amp;A leverage beyond that and could that result in us getting below 9 at some point in the future beyond 2016 that certainly possible.
But I think that is a little bit of a longer potential.
And our 10.5% to 11% that we guided to for 2016 was a consolidated margin.
So we could potentially have some upside on our financial services business as well.
We see as we move throughout the year and we’ll have more color to share.
Okay.
So just lastly then if I’m understanding it right a little bit of the improvement you’re expecting from gross margin expansion or is it going to be closer to more stable-ish? We’ve operated this year in the high 19s 19.7 and 19.9 about first three quarters.
We consistently say we expect our margin to be around 20.
So if we come in around 20 that next year that would be a slight improvement in our gross margin from this year.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Susan Maklari from UBS.
Please proceed with your question Good morning.
Good morning Susan.
Good morning.
In terms of your specs you noted that they were down about 12% during this quarter.
Can you talk a little bit about how you’re thinking about that even it such a big part of your strategy and if there is any change there that we should be aware of? We saw our competed specs go down by 12% during the quarter which is a pretty seasonal movement for us through the spring selling season as we’re selling those homes that we build and had inventory available for our customers.
But specs as you said are always have been a big part of our business.
We’re very comfortable building speculative homes and we think it opens up a new buyer to us that we wouldn’t have before just building homes for the customers.
No real change in our strategy there.
We’re tying to operate as efficiently as we can and so our expect percentage is a little lower than perhaps you’ve seen in the times in the past but really there is no change in strategy at all.
Okay perfect.
And then can you just give us an update on what you’re seeing in terms of the mortgage market.
It sounds like things are kind of continuing to maybe incrementally improve there but what do you think? Probably exactly what you just said Sue.
To us the mortgage environment is okay.
Assuming a buyer has decent credit and has a little bit of money to put down which isn’t unreasonable for somebody buying a house.
Buyers can get credit today.
So we’re seeing plenty of traffic come in and that can qualify.
Our cancellation rate has settled out into the low 20s and that still the main reason people do cancel.
They can’t qualify for the mortgage.
But that low 20s rate is not unusually high or something we’re uncomfortable with.
And we haven’t seen much in the way of change but I do think you continue to just see very gradual incremental loosening.
That probably at least all signs point right now that will continue.
I don’t think we expect any broad movements in the market to really open the flood gates again.
But just continued improvement in components then more buyers coming out and feeling better about their ability to qualify.
And whether the standards have actually changed or not.
I think we would point to as more of a positive over the past year.
Then the actual mortgage standards themselves.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Jack Micenko from SAG.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Your FHA VA mix picked up pretty significantly year-to-year is that price cut driven or is that more or some of the expansion you seeing on the VA side just curious what's driving that.
Yes Jack.
It’s not a pickup on the VA side or VA was pretty much flat.
So I think what you are seeing is an impact from the pricing getting more favorable on FHA coupled with a higher share of express.
And coming through our closings which is a higher FHA percentage than our reporting in Emerald buyers.
Okay.
And then just looking back I guess the last couple of months as the 97 GSE return had any impact on demand any of you.
No.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to first if you could provide a comment on the land market where you are seeing overall and where there is a still good opportunities to invest.
I would say yes we’re still seeing good opportunities overall.
I mean even replacing we’ve – just replacing what we use we’re going to spend $2 billion plus this year.
We’re discipline we’re basically underwriting it to two-year cash back program generating a certain level return 20 % and if we can get it in that box and its buy for us.
I can tell you we’re seeing deals we’re getting it done.
No shortage of deals out there available.
Okay.
And then just regarding the SG&amp;A outlook in terms of employee retention and yes sustaining the growth rate in topline what do you see as the risk of having to sort of reaccelerate the amount of dollars been SG&amp;A spent.
The SG&amp;A savings are being driven by revenue increases and efficiencies gained in the operation.
This is not a cut employee program.
In fact some of our highest paid people are in some of our lowest SG&amp;A divisions.
And it’s because of the revenue driven and the efficiencies they operate with.
So it really comes down to driving sales or flag per month.
If you look at our 8 000 additional closings this year on a relatively flat community count that 290 000 per ASP per average sales price and that’s driving a tremendous amount of revenue out of the same store sales.
So this is not a – this model is protecting employees not put them in risk.
Thanks.
I appreciate the color.
Thanks.
Our next question today is coming from Will Randow from Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning and thanks for taking my question.
Thank you.
Hey Bill.
I’m just kind of thinking about in the past you’ve talked about return on inventory on your your loss supply is down I’ll call it close to – a little under four-year supply.
Looking forward to the fourth quarter and looks like inventory growth is slowing down especially with land held for development coming of the balance sheet.
Where the opportunities to improve – I guess returns on asset as well as how do you think about leverage in that context for ROE? Yes Will.
This is Bill.
Yes return just clearly the focus on our end our strategy its balancing our inventory investments and trying to get the right balance of volume and absorptions compared to pricing and margins profitability to drive the best return in each one of our inventory investments and we’ve been saying for a while.
We feel like our land supply was that a sufficient level or our owned land supply was sufficient.
And so we’re maintaining that at around the same level.
We own about 120 000 lots today.
And we’ve been essentially in the range of 120 to 125 or so for two years.
That’s still a sufficient level for our current volume and we expected that it will support continued strong double-digit growth for the remainder 2015 and in the 2016.
And with our growth and improvement profitability with a more stable land supply that’s improving our returns and we expect to continue to drives some more from that.
If you look at our homebuilding ROI on a trailing 12 months.
It’s actually up 100 basis points as compared to fiscal 2014 and we would expect to continue to make further progress on that in Q4 in fiscal 2016.
And I guess as a follow-up is a land bank in market there it’s used to run 50/50 I’ll call it control versus owned in order to improve ROI.
And also on the leverage front do you think about you should be running closer to group medium leverage to hit kind of the group or total of the better ROE? With regard to your first question on the optioning of land and lots we are working continually to increase our controlled lot position and trying to get back more to the 50/50 balance.
That is exactly where we have been in the past and that's where we’re striving to get to today.
That helps us greatly with the return on our invested inventory.
With regard to the ROE as Bill mentioned before our initial use of the cash that we’re looking for in 2016 are handling - the $540 million of debt maturities that we have next year.
As well as continual opportunistic investments in the business whether that’s land and lots deal by deal or whether that’s continued acquisitions as we look to consolidate mortgage and open up the new products and new customers to us.
With that great opportunities – in front of us with the cash flow and we’re always monitoring – the leverage ratio and looking at what we feel is appropriate for where we are in the given cycle and the opportunity that are there.
Thanks guys and congrats on the quarter.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Mark Weintraub from Buckingham Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
A bit of a bigger picture question I guess.
And that’s – we’ve seen multi-family as a bigger percentage of total start for a while now.
I’m curious whether you see that as secular or cyclical.
How was that all might be impacting you in some of your markets even if – indirectly presumably.
And whether in forms that all in any of your medium to longer-term decision making? You know on multi-family something that we look where the demand is in each market and we build some multi-family and it’s not a big percentage of our business at all and so we really look at that market by market I don’t see that being a major driver of our business going forward.
But in certain market it’s only a bigger percentage of business.
And – I guess that - when you think about growth for the single-family business.
Are you – of the view that we’re going to catch back up to prior compositions multi-family and single-family.
Which would presumably you have it extra engine of growth from that change in mix or you to view we’re probably going to stay at these higher levels of multi-family for a while at a national level recognizing that you have your own individual markets obviously have a single-family? Mark I’m sure we really have a view.
I mean our focus is primarily on single-family and we’re not too worried – where that split is going to fall out going forward.
Our goal everyday is to go out and increase our market share and each of the market we currently operate in.
And so we’re going to gain as much of the single-family market as we can.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Alex Barron from Housing Research Center.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning guys.
Good job on the quarter.
I wanted to ask about the outlook for 2016 and towards community count.
Are you guys seeing one of the brands growing more than the other or they all is your outlook pretty much the same across the board in other words are you seeing more demand or more investment going into the express versus the other brands or not.
No not not really pushing money towards a brand we’re allocating money based up on the returns coming out of the markets and then coming out of the underwriting individual projects.
As we continue to open the express brand end markets then it’s growing of a slower platform.
So its going to show percentage higher growth.
Our goal is grow every brand every market every year.
Okay.
And I don’t know if I missed it or you didn’t mention it.
But you gave us the percentage of home sold for Express.
But I don’t think you gave it for emerald you just said closings and revenues.
Sorry.
Alex we’re looking for that.
That’s going to be included in our supplementary data that we will post to the website right after that call.
Okay.
That just for this quarter or you are going to go back a few quarters also? No.
Our supplementary data that’s out on our investor relations site has on trailing eight quarters from its all of the data it may only have one or two shy of that for the brands just because of the brands are newer than that.
But a pretty much has our entire history from a brands perspective.
Okay great thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our final question today is coming from Buck Horne from Raymond James and Associates.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey thanks guys.
I appreciate for the opportunity here.
Most of my questions are answered but I want to go back to just a clarification on Pacific Ridge the acquisition there.
Did any of the reported order totals this quarter include Pacific Ridge backlog and would you expect any sort of purchase accounting drag from the acquisition this quarter? It was a relatively small acquisition to the size of overall closings I would not expected a big purchase accounting drag from Pacific Ridge at all.
It contributed we have 40 closings 41 closings in the quarter for Pacific Ridge largely that will come out of the opening backlog and then 25 net new sales within the quarter from Pacific Ridge.
And but we did not add on their backlog to our reported sales for the quarter.
So our sales number for the quarter was pure Horton with our other brands inclusive of the 25 sales that Mike just mentioned.
That’s perfect.
Okay and my last question just going back to the express home division and just I think one things we are trying to wrestle with what’s the credit profile of that buyer today in terms whether it’s the FICO score or the average down payment they are able to put down on the home.
New home sales under the $200 000 price points are still kind of looking a National number still the weakest of all the category.
But yes you guys are taking any credible amount of share and I’m just kind of wondering to what extend you can share either the secret sauce or how deep do you think that buyer pool really is? Sure in terms of the mortgages I can give you some idea of what that looks like for those buyers that are utilizing our mortgage company.
And in a FICO score is really quite strong as well and it’s close to 700 on average for our Express buyers the loan to value isn’t that for off from our company average it’s slightly higher which was to be expected with our higher percentage of FHA loans being used.
The debt to income is right inline with the average for our overall company and then obviously the loan amount is a little bit lower just because of the lower average sales price.
So I think we still really really good about the depth in the market for that buyer and continue to prove it with the strength in the sales we’re seeing across all the places that we’ve open that Thank you very much Thank you.
Thanks Buck Thank you.
That does conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any further closing comments.
Thank you Kevin.
We just want everybody to know we appreciate your time on the call today.
I want to tell our employees that they are in fact the best in the industry I appreciate what you do everyday.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.
Greetings and welcome to the D.R.
Horton America's Builder the largest builder in the United States fourth quarter and fiscal year-end 2015 conference call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
A question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Jessica Hansen Vice President of Investor Relations for D.R.
Horton.
Please go ahead Jessica.
Thank you Kevin and good morning.
Welcome to our call to discuss our fourth quarter and fiscal 2015 financial results.
Before we get started today's call may include comments that constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Although D.R.
Horton believes any such statements are based on reasonable assumptions there is no assurance that actual outcomes will not be materially different.
All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to D.R.
Horton on the date of this conference call and D.R.
Horton does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Additional information about issues that can lead to material changes in performance is contained in D.R.
Horton's Annual Report on Form 10-K and our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q both of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
For your convenience this morning's earnings release can be found on our website at investor.drhorton.com and we plan to file our 10-K next week.
After the conclusion of the call we will post updated supplementary historical data on the Presentations section of our Investor Relations site for your reference.
The supplementary information includes historical data on gross margins changes in active selling communities product mix and our mortgage operations.
Now I will turn the call over to David Auld our President and CEO.
Thank you Jessica and good morning.
In addition to Jessica I'm pleased to be joined on this call by Mike Murray our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Office; and Bill Wheat our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Our D.R.
Horton team finished this year with an outstanding fourth quarter.
Pre-tax income increased to $339 million on $3.2 billion of revenue.
And our fourth quarter pre-tax operating margin improved 60 basis points to 10.7%.
Our sales absorptions continued to improve during this quarter as homes sold increased 19% on a relatively flat community count.
This reflects solid performance of our core D.R.
Horton communities and our Emerald Homes and Express Homes brands which are enabling us to expand our product offering and industry-leading market share.
For the year while demand for new homes across most of our markets remained relatively stable to moderately improved we generated growth of 30% or greater in both our home sales revenues and home building pre-tax income by successfully leveraging our platform as the nation's largest and most geographically diverse homebuilder.
Our consolidated pre-tax income for 2015 increased 38% to $1.1 billion on $10.8 billion of revenue and 36 648 homes closed.
Our continued strategic focus is to produce double-digit annual growth in both our revenue and pre-tax profits while generating positive cash flows and increasing our returns.
During the fourth quarter we generated $512 million of cash from operations bringing our total cash generated by operations for the year to $700 million.
Our return on inventory defined as homebuilding pre-tax income divided by average inventory improved 170 basis points in 2015 to 12.8%.
With a sales backlog of 10 662 homes at the end of September; solid sales trends in October; and a well-stocked supply of land lots and homes we are well-positioned for 2016.
Mike? Net income for the fourth quarter increased to 44% to $239 million or $0.64 per diluted share compared to $166 million or $0.45 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Our consolidated pre-tax income increased 35% to $339 million in the fourth quarter compared to $251 million in the year-ago quarter and homebuilding pre-tax income increased 27% to $302 million compared to $237 million in the prior-year quarter.
Our fourth quarter home sales revenues increased 27% to $3.1 billion on 10 576 homes closed up from $2.4 billion on 8 612 homes closed in the year-ago quarter.
Our average closing price for the quarter was $288 600 up 3% compared to the prior year due to an increase in our average sales price per square foot.
Bill? The value of our net sales orders in the fourth quarter increased 22% from the year-ago quarter to $2.5 billion and homes sold increased 19% to 8 477 homes while our community count remained relatively flat.
Our average sales price on net sales orders in the fourth quarter increased 3% to $289 500.
The cancellation rate for the quarter was 27% down from 28% in the year-ago quarter.
The value of our backlog increase 10% from a year ago to $3.1 billion with an average sales price per home of $295 100 and homes in backlog increased 8% to 10 662 homes.
Our backlog conversion rate for the fourth quarter was 83% within the range we guided to on our third quarter call.
Jessica? We are experiencing solid demand revenue growth and profitability in our D.R.
Horton-branded communities which accounted for the substantial majority of our sales and closings this quarter.
Emerald Homes our brand for higher-end move-up and luxury communities is available in 46 markets across 18 states.
In the fourth quarter homes priced greater than $500 000 accounted for 17% of our home sales revenue and 7% of our homes closed.
For the year homes priced greater than $500 000 accounted for 16% of our home sales revenue and 7% of our homes closed.
Our Express Homes brand targeted at the true entry-level buyer focused primarily on affordability is being offered in 48 markets in 15 states with the significant majority of our Express sales and closings to date coming from Texas Florida and the Carolinas.
This quarter Express accounted for 22% of our homes sold 21% of homes closed and 14% of home sales revenue.
The average closing price of an Express home in the fourth quarter was $191 000.
For the year Express accounted for 18% of our homes sold 15% of homes closed and 10% of home sales revenue.
We're striving to be the leading builder in each of our operating markets with all of our brands.
And we plan to maintain consistent broad product diversity over the long term.
Mike? Our gross profit margin on home sales revenue in the fourth quarter was 19.9% flat with the third quarter.
The consistency in our gross margin this year reflects the stability of most of our markets today and the normalization of housing market conditions.
We are raising prices or reducing incentives when possible in communities where we are achieving our targeted absorptions.
And we're also working to control cost increases.
All of these factors have enabled our gross margins to stabilize within our normal historical range.
Our general expectation for fiscal 2016 is that gross margins will remain relatively stable with fiscal 2015 levels.
In the current housing environment we continue to expect our average home sales gross margin to generally be around 20% with quarterly fluctuations that may range from 19% to 21% due to product and geographic mix and the relative impact of warranty and interest cost.
As a reminder our reported gross margins include all of our interest cost.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2016 we expect our home sales gross margin will be in the high 19%s to 20% consistent with our margins during fiscal 2015 which were in the high 19%s the entire year.
Bill? In the fourth quarter SG&amp;A expense as a percentage of homebuilding revenues improved 100 basis points to 8.9% compared to 9.9% in the prior-year quarter.
Homebuilding SG&amp;A for the full fiscal year also improved 100 basis points to 9.6% compared to 10.6% in fiscal 2014 as our increased revenues this year improved the leverage of our fixed overhead costs.
We are pleased that our homebuilding SG&amp;A in fiscal 2015 was 40 basis points below our long-standing target of 10% and we expect further improvement in our SG&amp;A leverage for fiscal 2016.
Jessica? Financial services pre-tax income in the fourth quarter increased to $37.3 million from $14.2 million in the year-ago quarter.
And for the year financial services pre-tax income increased to $105.1 million from $45.4 million in fiscal 2014.
Increases in our financial services profits for the fourth quarter and fiscal year were primarily due to improved loan sale execution higher average loan amounts and leverage of fixed overhead costs.
89% of our mortgage company's loan originations during the fourth quarter related to homes closed by our homebuilding operations and our mortgage company handled the financing for 52% of our home buyers.
FHA and VA loans accounted for 50% of the mortgage company's volume compared to 42% in the year-ago quarter.
Borrowers originating loans with our mortgage company this quarter had an average FICO score of 715 and an average loan-to-value ratio of 89%.
Bill? At the end of September we had 19 800 homes in inventory of which 1 600 were models.
9 700 of our total homes were spec homes with 6 300 in various stages of construction and 3 400 completed.
Our construction in progress and finished homes inventory decreased by $314 million during the quarter and our number of homes in inventory decreased by 7% a normal seasonal trend after our strongest home closings quarter of the year.
Our completed specs decreased by 6% during the quarter.
Our fourth quarter investments in lots land and development totaled $590 million of which $305 million was to replenish finished lots and land and $285 million was for land development.
Our residential land and lot inventory increased by $54.5 million during the quarter.
David? At September 30 2015 our portfolio consisted of 174 000 lots of which 118 000 are owned and 56 000 are controlled through option contracts.
67 000 of our total lots controlled are finished with – of which 33 000 are owned and 34 000 are optioned.
Our 174 000 total lots owned and controlled provide us a strong competitive advantage in the current housing market with a sufficient lot supply to support solid growth in sales and closings in future periods.
In 2016 we expect our total owned land and lot inventory balance to be in line with or slightly higher than 2015.
And we also plan to increase our optioned land and lot position.
In 2015 we invested $2.2 billion in land lots and development.
And in 2016 we expect that our investment level will increase by more than 20%.
Mike? Our inactive land held for development of $202 million at the end of the year represents 11 100 lots down 13% from June and down 21% from a year ago.
We continue to work through each of our remaining inactive land parcels to improve cash flows and returns and we expect that our land held for development will continue to decline.
During the fourth quarter we recorded $5.1 million in land option charges for write-offs of earnest money deposits and due diligence costs for projects that we do not intend to pursue.
We also recorded $21.2 million of inventory impairment charges of which $12.2 million were in our East region and $9 million were in our West region.
These charges related to two long-held inactive land parcels that we sold during the quarter and one long-held project in production.
Each of these actions resulted in improved returns and redeployment of capital into more productive assets.
We will continue to evaluate our inventories for potential impairment which may result in future impairment charges but the timing and magnitude of these charges will fluctuate as they have in the past.
Also during the fourth quarter we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $9.8 million related to one of our operating divisions in our Southeast region.
Our total goodwill balance after this impairment is $87.2 million.
Bill? At September 30 our home building liquidity included $1.4 billion of unrestricted homebuilding cash and $865 million available capacity on our revolving credit facility.
We had no cash borrowings and $110 million of letters of credit outstanding on the revolver.
Our gross homebuilding leverage was 36.1% and our homebuilding leverage ratio net of cash was 25.1%.
The balance of our public notes outstanding at September 30 was $3.3 billion.
And we have a total of $543 million of senior note maturities in fiscal 2016.
At September 30 our shareholder's equity balance was $5.9 billion and book value per share was $16 up 14% from a year ago.
Based on our solid balance sheet liquidity and current and expected levels of profitability and cash flow our board of directors increased our quarterly cash dividend by 28% from the most recent dividend paid to $0.08 per share.
Jessica? Looking forward we would like to highlight some of our expectations for next year.
They are consistent with what we shared on our call in July and are based on the current relatively stable to moderately improved market conditions.
In fiscal 2016 we still expect to generate a consolidated pre-tax margin of 10.5% to 11%.
We also expect to generate consolidated revenues of between $12 billion and $12.5 billion and to close between 39 500 and 41 500 homes.
We anticipate our home sales gross margin for the full year of fiscal 2016 will be in the high 19%s to 20% with potential quarterly fluctuations that may range from 19% to 21%.
We estimate that our annual homebuilding SG&amp;A expense will be in the range of 9.2% to 9.4% of homebuilding revenues with the first two quarters of the year higher than this range and the third and fourth quarters below the range.
We expect our annual financial services operating margin to range from 30% to 33%.
We are forecasting our fiscal 2016 income tax rate to be between 35.5% and 36% and our diluted share count to be approximately 375 million shares.
We also continue to expect to generate $300 million to $500 million of positive cash flow from operations.
Our fiscal 2016 results will be significantly impacted by the spring selling season and we will update our expectations each quarter as our visibility to the spring and the full year becomes clearer.
For the first fiscal quarter of 2016 we expect that our number of homes closed will approximate a beginning backlog conversion rate in a range of 75% to 78%.
We anticipate our first quarter home sales gross margin will be in the high 19%s to 20% and we expect our homebuilding SG&amp;A in the first quarter to be in the range of 10.5% to 10.9% of revenues.
David? In closing 2015 was our third consecutive year to generate 30% or greater increases in both home sales revenues and homebuilding pre-tax income.
While significantly growing the business we also generated $700 million of positive cash flow from operations.
And our annual return on inventory improved 170 basis points to 12.8%.
This is a result of the strength of our people and our operating platform and we are excited about the opportunities ahead.
We remain focused on growing both our revenue and pre-tax profits at a double-digit annual pace while continuing to generate positive cash flows and improved returns.
We are well-positioned to do so with our solid balance sheet; industry-leading market share; broad geographic footprint; diversified product offering across our D.R.
Horton Emerald and Express brands; attractive finished lot and land position; and most importantly our outstanding team across the country.
We'd like to thank all of our employees for their great work and tremendous accomplishments this year and we look forward to working together to continue growing and improving our operations in 2016.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We will now host questions.
Thank you.
We'll now be conducting a question and answer session.
Our first question today is coming from Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed with your question.
Mr.
Wetenhall your line is now live.
Perhaps your phone is on mute.
Please pick up your handset.
Sorry.
This is Collin filling in for Bob.
Thank you for taking my questions.
So prices were up by about 3.4% on a consolidated basis.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on what prices were doing on a brand basis and how much of a headwind the change in the product mix was.
In general across the board community-by-community is where we're seeing pricing.
On a brand basis mix is a big factor.
On our Express brand as we've been rolling it out into more markets the more recent markets we've rolled it into are at a higher ASP.
So we have seen an increase in our average ASP in Express as we've expected to see.
On the Emerald brand again as we're rolling that out across the country we've seen that have a fair amount of fluctuations from quarter to quarter.
But in the current quarter we're in the mid-$500 000 range.
Collin this will be in the supplemental information we'll put out after the call but our closing ASP for the quarter on a sequential basis was up across all brands.
It was mix that brought the overall down sequentially slightly.
And on a year-over-year basis we were essentially flat in Emerald but up substantially in Express and Horton.
Great.
Thank you.
And then as you look forward into 2016 how do you see your portfolio on a brand-by-brand basis kind of as a percentage of total deliveries? And what are your expectations on gross margin for this? We continue to expect both Express and Emerald to grow as a percentage of the business as they did this year.
As we roll them out into further markets we would expect by the end of fiscal 2016 that we would have Express into most of the markets that we expect it to be in.
And in terms of percentage of revenues certainly could be nearing the 20% level.
And Emerald in terms of percentage of revenues would start moving up – further up into the higher single digits.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Stephen Kim from Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Strong quarter.
Good job in the quarter.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Had two questions for you.
First of all it seemed like your cash flow guide was a little low and your cash balance at the end of the year was a little high.
By my reckoning even if your land spend were to increase 25% – I think you said more than 20% is what you thought – your cash flow could still be pretty similar to what we saw in 2015 if my numbers are right.
And I think you got about $550 million or something that we're looking for in debt paydown next year which is going to leave your cash balance pretty elevated.
So I was curious first of all if you could talk about why your cash guidance is sort of so much lower than what you did this year.
And then secondly sort of where you feel comfortable with your cash balance residing? As we look forward – Steve this is Bill – a lot of the level in which we will reinvest or the level in which we will invest depends on what we see in the sales environment in the spring this next year.
So at this point as we look forward we feel comfortable that a $300 million to $500 million range will occur even with a reinvestment level north of 20%.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
It's possible we might invest even higher than that if we see sufficient strength in the market or the need.
But if we stay at around that 20% level yes your calculations are in the ballpark that we could be at the higher end or maybe even above that range on cash flow.
But we're certainly in a flexible position and we'll adjust our investment decisions based on what we see in the market as we get into calendar 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
So my next question relates to M&amp;A.
We did an analysis and it looked like over the last 15 years that Horton's pretty much – you guys are the only ones that have really grown your business outside of acquisitions or at least grown your market share outside of acquisitions.
And at the same time there's a pretty wide gap in price-to-book valuations among the public builders.
And my question is what's your opinion on the M&amp;A opportunity that you see over the next year? And is there any reason you might prefer privates or publics when you look at the opportunity set? Steve this is David.
We're continuing to look at opportunities.
We're in the position we're in because we've been disciplined about it and trying to find the right cultural fit when we do combine.
If you look at our history of merger and acquisitions the culture and fit has typically been more important than the assets that we're acquiring.
So we're going to be disciplined and opportunistic.
But yes we are looking continuously and believe that where we find a good fit at the right price it's an additive to our company.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks very much guys.
Good job.
Thank you.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Stephen East from Evercore ISI.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you and congratulations on a nice quarter.
Just to follow on Steve's question a little bit.
You will have a lot of cash sitting on the balance sheet Bill even in your scenario and paying down the debt.
So if you could talk a little bit about with that excess cash what you would like to do with it and a bit more generally your capital allocation for 2016.
You gave the land spend guidance.
But where is it happening and what percentage of these communities are 24 months or less? Is that still a big focus for you? And just where you expect that community growth to be next year? Sure.
The level of community growth.
Sure.
Steve this is Bill.
I'll start at the back end.
We are still working with our 24-month cash return as our base underwriting guidelines.
And vast majority of the land we're buying will fit within that.
We're certainly in a flexible position and occasionally strategically we might go outside that box.
But vast majority of the time we're staying within 24-month cash return.
In terms of community count growth we've stated we expect it to be relatively flat to slightly up.
Low to mid-single digits would be probably the top end of the growth expectations.
Really we're looking across our business.
We've seen significant increases in the Southeast over the last couple of years but we're seeing a few markets perhaps starting to show some signs of life further north and in the Southwest as well that perhaps we could – it may be time to show some growth there.
So really looking across the breadth of our business.
As we look at our cash flow expectations for the year of course we did announce an increase in our dividend a 28% increase in that so that's already out there as far as the use of our cash.
We are going to remain flexible and opportunistic around investments in the business.
Great position to be in with $1.3 billion $1.4 billion of cash today heading into the spring.
And then we want to see what the spring demand is and decide our level of reinvestment in the business there but still feel comfortable with that and still be able to generate $300 million to $500 million of free cash flow next year.
The debt maturities of $543 million are certainly a priority for us.
Again flexible position.
We certainly have the cash to be able to pay it all in cash if we were to so choose.
Our current expectations is that we would refinance a portion of that and pay off a portion of that in cash so that our net balance would decrease a bit.
Past that really our mantra is remain opportunistic while remaining disciplined.
And all things could be on the table but we want to keep our options open.
Okay.
Thanks.
Very thorough there.
And then if you look at what all the other builders have been talking about the labor the costs et cetera maybe you all could frame how much costs are up year over year both labor and on the land side.
And then just what you're seeing on the labor side.
Some of your peers have said they expect it to get a lot worse before it gets better and what you all are seeing and how you're going to offset it moving forward.
Stephen this is the first quarter that we did see on a year-over-year basis our revenues tick up in – per square foot – in excess of our stick-and-brick costs which would be both our labor and materials.
Our revenues per square foot were up about 4% whereas our stick-and-brick per square foot was up 3.5%.
The sequential trend was good as well.
Our revenues outpaced our stick-and-brick.
You didn't see that flow through as an increase to our margin because we do have slightly higher land costs today.
But as we mentioned our margin's stable in spite of higher land labor and material costs and we were able to offset the majority of that with pricing this quarter.
So we've been working on that this entire year to get that back in check and happy to say that we got there by the end of the year.
In terms of labor I mean David will probably speak to how we feel about labor overall.
Stephen David.
No question; labor is tight.
The reports coming out of other builders – I mean we're not immune to it.
I think we have mitigated it by having the best operating team in the industry.
And the relationships that our people have with vendors suppliers put us at the front of the line.
So it flows back to the time with a company time in a market.
Okay.
And what I believe is the number one competitive advantage which is our people.
David do you expect it to get worse in 2016? I don't think it's going to get any better.
Okay.
I do think we're approaching – the market continues to improve.
The latest jobs report did show 30 000-plus construction jobs being added.
Why it's taken this long to start adding those jobs I'm not sure but hopefully that's a trend of something that's going to take place.
And we will re-staff our production so that we get back to a normal national building environment.
All right.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Mike Dahl from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your questions.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Wanted to go back to some of the market discussion and I think Bill you mentioned there may be some areas that are showing some signs of life and maybe deserve some more investment.
So I guess if you guys could give us a little more color on where some of those markets are and just the overall cadence that you're seeing in some of the key markets in your footprint because you've described it as relatively stable to slightly improving.
I think some of your peers have seen a bit more volatility as of late.
So any color there? And also if you could quantify October sales being solid what's that actually mean relative to what we were seeing this quarter? Mike going backwards October sales were – we're happy with our October sales level in line with our expectations but as we always said one month does not quarter make.
And looking at individual markets we've been very happy with our Texas performance which is our South Central external region primarily.
Continue to see good performance in the Southeastern part of the country.
And as (31:14) in the communities we invested in there we've built a great presence.
And perhaps some of the markets out west in Arizona are starting to show some encouraging signs as well.
But it's hard to really quantify market by market when we look at this.
Got it.
Okay.
And then second question just around the goodwill impairment.
So in the Southeast just curious is that related to a legacy position or is that one of the more recent acquisitions? Can you talk about the factors that drove that and if there are any other implications we should be thinking about on a go-forward basis whether it's what that means for margins or sales out of that region? That related to one division within our Southeast region.
That was the Huntsville market that we entered as a result of the Breland acquisition in 2012 and that was as a result of some challenging market conditions in Huntsville.
And I don't look for any read-through to any other markets or margin effect anywhere else.
And Huntsville is a relatively small division in terms of our overall platform.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Ken Zener from KeyBanc.
Please proceed with your questions.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
Good morning Ken.
Morning Ken.
Inc.</span></strong> So David kind of wrapping up this year and I wonder if you could comment.
I mean obviously under your tenure you kind of just started disclosing information a little differently than Don did in the past.
The question I have for you is about seasonality in your business because you guys with the release that you give after this conference call we can see kind of the trailing-three-year seasonality in orders.
And when you look at your year-over-year results what it shows is increasing absorption.
But that actually occurred all in the first quarter seasonally.
You didn't go down like you normally did.
Can you talk to or kind of address if when you think about the cadence of your business which I assume you look at it seasonally do you still expect that kind of slightly higher absorption rate which is new the last few years to unfold in kind of that first quarter? Or do you expect it to go down like it did historically about 20%? Because it seems like you guys kind of changed the cadence of the business a little bit in recent years.
Yeah.
We would still expect to see normal seasonality in the business which would infer a decline in Q1.
Sales – we don't guide to sales for a reason.
It's really hard for us to estimate what our sales are going to be.
We did give guidance for the full year on closings.
So clearly we have to sell at least that many homes if not more.
So we do feel like we're going to close between 39 500 homes and 41 500 homes for the full year.
But as you saw in Q4 and as we've talked about we're not going to be at a 30% growth rate moving forward.
We did that for three years straight and – going to be hard to do that again.
But we do think our consolidated revenues will be up 10% to 15%.
And Q1's typically our softest quarter and we do expect to see normal seasonality in Q1 and really not know what the year holds until we get to the spring.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And Ken this is David.
I'll also say that weather did impact kind of the process last year.
And we had a great year because we have great people.
But tight labor and weather conditions are a reality in this industry.
So that kind of made some things shift around a little bit.
But yes we're a seasonal business.
We plan to build sell and close based upon what the historical seasons have been.
Inc.</span></strong> Good.
And I appreciate that.
I just was asking because the last two years in the first quarter your pace actually went up modestly.
So I just wanted to understand how you thought about that.
But it sounds like it's somewhere between what we had in the last few years and the usually down 18% sequential pace somewhere in that broad range.
Can you talk – David you said you don't expect labor to get better but I mean you are I believe the largest homebuilder.
And it would seem that that issue would impact you most.
But closings et cetera et cetera you've been able to navigate it.
I mean is it that you're paying people more perhaps? Because it really – all the smaller builders' issues would seem to be magnified.
Can you just explore that a little bit more because it really does seem to require a little more explanation how the largest person is navigating this issue while the smaller guys can't do it? I don't think we're paying people more.
Actually I think we got a lot of efficiencies and benefit from our overall market share and presence.
You guys are going to get tired of me saying this but it really is the people.
We got the – one of the toughest markets toughest weather conditions toughest labor markets is our Dallas-Fort Worth area.
And those two guys because they have been in the market for 20-plus years because they have a direct relationship with the vendors and suppliers make a call and get people to show up.
And you just can't put a – you can't quantify that and put it into a model.
And they're both also perfect examples of where local market share and building specs on a consistent basis really comes into play.
So that coupled with their experience is really why we think we've been able to not have that show up as much in our results as it has in others'.
But it's not just Dallas-Fort Worth.
We've got people like that in every market.
So.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And could you just comment on the gross margin between spec and backlog if that's relevant now? Thank you very much.
Thank you.
A word about our normal relationship between spec and overall.
Spec margins are a bit below – 100 200 basis points below the company average which is about normal.
They were about 200 basis points below build jobs.
Below build jobs yeah.
Yeah.
So the company average is slightly...
Much closer probably about that.
Yeah.
We feel about 70% of what we closed this quarter was a spec.
So the margin we reported is essentially a spec margin.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Michael Rehaut from JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your questions.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone and also nice quarter.
Thank you Michael.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Thanks Mike.
First question I just had was on guidance and just wanted to make sure – it appeared that essentially you reiterated all the components of fiscal 2016 guidance with perhaps the exception of giving a little more clarity to SG&amp;A.
Before I think you said below 9.5% of consolidated revenue and now you're saying 9.2% to 9.5%.
Do I have that right? Mike we actually on our last call only gave the consolidated pre-tax margin as official guidance.
We had some sidebars as we got into the Q&amp;A.
But our official guidance in July was just for the 10.5% to 11.5% consolidated pre-tax margins so we did reiterate that on this call.
And then our SG&amp;A guidance for fiscal 2016 which is – this the first time we're giving what we would consider to be our official SG&amp;A guidance – is for 9.2% to 9.4% of homebuilding revenues.
Right.
And then – I appreciate that.
I think that sounds right.
Yeah some of that was on the Q&amp;A I guess.
And just to be clear also on the SG&amp;A.
You're talking about the homebuilding revenue inclusive of land sales.
Is that right? And that's also how you're describing it for 1Q? Is there a way for us to get a sense of what you're anticipating land sales to be? No.
As you indicated to me earlier today our land sales are choppy and we do know that.
But when we look at our SG&amp;A we look at it all in as a percentage of our total homebuilding revenues.
And that lines up with our income statement with – "total homebuilding revenues" is actually our line but is inclusive of both home sales revenue and land sales revenue.
Okay.
Yeah.
Just – obviously creates a slight incremental challenge with modeling but I guess we can talk about that later.
Also on the fiscal 2016 outlook I think Bill you mentioned expecting community count to be up low to at most mid-single.
I would presume given that it looks like at least from a trend perspective Express 4Q activity stronger than the full fiscal year that that would – that the fiscal 2016 should have a higher proportion of Express versus 2015.
Would that then result in sales pace improvement of at least 5% to 10% just from that continued shift alone? Yes.
Obviously with our guidance of 10% to 15% revenue growth with low to mid-single digit community count where we are anticipating incremental absorption improvement and part of that – one driver of that – is the continued rollout of Express.
As it has been this year as a contributor to some absorption improvement we do expect further absorption improvement driven by Express as well as our efforts to continue to be more efficient across all of our brands across all of our communities in the company.
Great.
And then just one last one if I could.
The land investment north of 20% obviously a pretty strong number and certainly we're not at mid-cycle levels yet.
Although I would think that at this point at least from your peers maybe not growing that incremental investment as aggressively not all have reported that yet.
But when you talked about the 20%-plus growth is that reflective of more development versus finished lot type of takedowns or just from a bigger-picture perspective you're also talking about lots growing I would assume not at the same rate as the 20%-plus.
So just kind of give us a sense of what's the drivers there because obviously there are other builders out there that are maybe taking a slightly – I would presume – slightly more conservative view as you get deeper into the cycle.
Right.
Mike yes there is a distinguishment we need to make between the level of investment we're going to make versus the level of our inventory balance – our land inventory balance on our balance sheet.
We do expect to grow our spending our investments by more than 20%.
We do expect some increase in our development spend in that expectation and then some increase in our absolute spending for land acquisition.
Our percentage of our land acquisition spend has been pretty consistent and around half of that spend has been for finished lots.
And we would expect that to continue especially as we increase our option lot position and continue to add to that and buy finished lots there.
So there's still a very strong element of finished-lot purchases in that.
But even with an increase in our spending or investment level of greater than 20% we only expect our balance sheet – our land inventory balance to be relatively stable to slightly grow.
So what we're essentially doing is replenishing our lot position and that's kind of what we've been doing for the last year to two years is essentially replenishing our owned lot position but to do that at an increased closing level requires an increase in investment.
Perfect.
That's very helpful.
Appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Nishu Sood from Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
I wanted to ask about the backlog conversion ratio which you guided for for the first quarter.
I think you said 72% to 74% kind of low to mid-70%s.
Nishu – Nishu hang on a second.
We guided to 75% to 78%.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay okay.
Sorry.
Sorry 75% - I just wanted to make sure everybody got that and didn't write down your 72% to 74%.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure sure.
No no appreciate that.
You folks have had eight quarters in a row of your backlog turnover ratio being higher on a year-over-year basis.
I mean that's a terrific achievement in light of the pressure that the industry has been facing and obviously have been discussed here in the Q&amp;A already.
This would be the first quarter where you would be down on a year-over-year basis.
So I just wanted to understand that a little bit better.
Is this just a reflection of the issues that you were discussing the delivery and the labor challenges? Are you changing in terms of the sort of units that you're building – less specs maybe? Just wanted to understand the drivers of it being lower year over year.
Yeah.
Nishu I think you hit on it.
We did touch on some of the factors that are affecting us.
There was – it rained in a lot of places.
Not making any excuses for that but we still looking for next year the full year to revenues to be up 10% to 15%.
And we're going to see our first quarter conversion rate we believe to be a little lower than it was last year.
I think there were 24 inches in - Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
– 24 inches in our major markets in Texas in May.
And so we lost about two months of starts and that's – we were able to drive the conversion at the end of the year because those houses were started.
But it – right now today if we had more houses we'd be at a higher conversion rate.
First quarter was our lowest quarter (46:09) Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
So then it's more temporary issues as opposed to changes to operating procedures such – let's say building less specs or (46:20) Absolutely.
Our primary goal is to continue to improve the efficiency metrics of this industry and of our company.
And conversion rate is a major goal for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Which is why it was improved eight quarters in a row.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then the second question – and Jessica I won't say the number because I'll probably get it wrong again – but (46:46) I think you guided to in the low 30%s on a margin basis.
A lot of folks expected at the beginning of this year the margins in that business being very high for them to converge back to normal.
From your 4Q which was very strong it certainly doesn't look like that's the case.
But – so what are you thinking about when you guide to the financial services margins being down year over year? It doesn't seem like any of the momentum has been lost there.
Is that just a view that look longer term this doesn't look to be sustainable? Are you seeing anything in your business now which led to the low-30%s expectation? And yeah – so what are your thoughts behind that? Sure.
A couple of things Nishu.
Our financial services team has done an outstanding job the last couple of years – well and really longer than that – but the last few years they've seen outsized operating margins as what we would've expected from them historically.
They continue to have just better loan sale execution and higher loan amounts this year which helped them leverage their SG&amp;A better.
But we also had a slightly unusual item this year in terms of a $10 million reduction in our loan loss reserve.
We were actually successful in some negotiations with mortgage purchasers for amounts lower than we originally anticipated.
So we did lower our reserve amount in Q4 and the full-year amount was $10 million.
So that was a slight pickup to their margin this year which we aren't expecting to repeat in 2016 coupled with – we just don't know if we're going to be able to sustain the higher operating margins that they've been running for the last two years.
So they'll continue to operate as efficiently as they can and do as well as they can.
And as we move throughout the year we'll update that guidance if that 30% to 33% doesn't look right.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Appreciate the thoughts.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Eric Bosshard from Cleveland Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Two things.
First of all I think Jessica you pointed out that the revenues per foot ahead of the cost per foot ex-land for the first time in a while.
I guess the two questions in that – what's changed within that and is that sustainable? That's the first thing I wanted to ask.
We'll see if it's sustainable.
We're guiding to essentially flat gross margins next year.
So that would infer that we do expect labor to continue to be a challenge.
But our goal next year is going to be to continue to keep those in line.
If we're able to get more pricing and improve our margin as we move throughout the spring we will.
But where we sit today in November we feel pretty comfortable that we can offset any labor and material and land increases with our sales prices.
Now the progress with sales price kind of moderated through the year and I understand there's moving parts within mix.
Is there a belief that with a better demand environment there's more of an opportunity with price in 2016 than you experienced within 2015? In an improved demand environment I would say yes.
But where demand conditions are today we feel comfortable at our absorptions and our community levels.
And so we have a kind of a balance if you will an equilibrium at the community level we're comfortable guiding to right now.
And then in terms of our overall ASP obviously as Express continues to become a bigger mix we're not going to expect our ASP to continue to climb at the same rate because we do have mix impact impacting that as well.
Okay.
And then the second question – I appreciate – you commented you want to wait to see the spring to determine some of the land spend and some of the overall spend also talking about growing 20%.
I guess from a bigger strategic picture at this point of the cycle are you still trying to grow the overall inventory or are you trying to match the spend to what you sell or are you trying to spend a little less than what you sell? Where are you at this point of the cycle in terms of your investment relative to what you're selling through? I would say we still think that there's legs left in this cycle.
I mean we're not even close to what is a historical demand.
So we're trying to be very judicious and value the capital we have.
So I'd say some kind of balance.
One quarter it may look like we're – didn't buy enough.
The next quarter it may look like we bought too much.
But it's a balanced approach to drive efficiency throughout the entire company.
We don't want too much land.
We don't want too little land.
I think Eric to follow-on what David said that we would expect that to be at a replenishment level to slightly higher.
But all the while looking to be more efficient with our capital.
More efficient with our inventory to drive a higher turn.
A higher backlog conversion a higher rollover of our assets to be better stewards of that capital.
To drive the return on our invested inventory up.
That's why one of our major goal is to substantially increase our option land position where we're at a balance today at 68% owned.
Obviously our long term we'd love to be much closer to 50%/50% split there and so to the extent that we can increase our option position much more efficient with our capital lower risk as well we'd like to do that.
So it's still a goal.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Susan Maklari from UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Sue.
You guys have talked a lot about how you have already expanded Express and sort of the future of that brand.
And yet it sounds like the bulk of that business remains focused in Texas and the Carolinas and Florida.
As you think about it moving further and getting into increasingly more markets should we expect that the core will remain focused in those areas or to what extent do you expect to diversify to these other markets? Well we opened 24 new markets with Express in fiscal 2015.
That puts us in 48 markets out of the 70-plus we operate in.
So - Florida was a major entrance this year.
And as we add to other markets we're starting to add markets in the West now that's adding to our presence.
That starts to change the mix a bit and we'll diversify a bit from where we are.
But I think still our long-term expectation is really Texas across the Southeast including the Carolinas and Florida will still remain the core of Express might even remain the majority of our overall volume.
But we do continue to diversify as the rollout continues.
Okay.
And then you saw very strong order trends in the Southeast.
Was a lot of that driven by Express? Or can you talk a little bit about what you saw there? A lot of it was driven by Express Sue.
We've opened a lot of new communities because of a lot of new investments all across the Southeast in all of our brands.
So we saw a very nice pickup in our absorptions coupled with an increase in our community count that really drove their order increase this quarter.
But when we look at our home sales revenue on a year-over-year basis across all three of our brands all three of our brands increased at a strong double-digit pace.
Clearly as we've expanded Express and Emerald they've grown at a higher percentage as we rolled them out.
But all three of our brands grew at a strong double-digit pace.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Jack Micenko from SIG.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Wondered if you could put a little context around the absorptions? Obviously you've seen a companywide improvement.
But when I think about Express versus Horton versus Emerald how should we think about community absorption per brand? Is it like 8-4-2? Is it 10-6? (55:27) Is there a way you can sort of rule of thumb give us some context on how to think about that as a follow-up to the prior question given Express is driving such order growth and absorption improvement? It's less about brand than it is about return on investment and the pace of absorption to drive the highest return.
It's a balance of margin sales base and deliveries.
So that's something we look at project by project market by market to maximize the return to the company and the shareholders.
Okay.
Thanks.
We have Horton projects doing significant absorption.
And it really is all across the board.
Okay.
So community by community not brand by brand? Correct.
Yes sir.
Yep.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up to some of the – it looks like you're going to probably delever further next year.
You talk about a cash number that sounds conservative potentially next year and then you're increasing your option versus your owned to mix presumably as well.
Saw the dividend raised this quarter.
Where is the right leverage ratio? I know you've bought back stock in the past to offset some dilution.
What do you think about buybacks? Just kind of where do you think the balance sheet and capital looks like sort of a year from now from a leverage ratio and what else do you do with your cash? We do expect incremental improvement in our leverage I think as we move each year into the cycle I think we think that's prudent and a prudent management of our balance sheet.
So what that gives us is a lot of flexibility.
And it gives us the potential to be very opportunistic.
So to the extent that a great opportunity comes along we've got of plenty of room on our balance sheet and plenty of liquidity to be able to take advantage of it.
So from our standpoint that's really what we're trying to maintain: this flexibility and the ability to be opportunistic.
I talked earlier in one of the responses to the previous question about our priorities for cash flow around we increased our dividend we're going to continue to invest in the business and we'll adjust that based on what we see next year.
We do expect incremental reduction in our debt.
And then past that our mantra is opportunistic but disciplined.
We certainly have done some limited share repurchases in the past.
I would say that's not near the top of our list right now given the opportunities that we see to invest in our business and generate a strong return in our business.
At this point in the cycle we believe having flexibility and liquidity is a good thing and will give us an opportunity to take advantage of investments that – we'll be the only one bidding.
So we like that environment.
Okay.
You guided to 375 million on the share count next year.
Is that the right number? Yes.
Yes.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question today is coming from Jade Rahmani from KBW.
Please proceed with your question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is actually Ryan Tomasello on for Jade.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just going back to the labor costs I was wondering if you could provide a bit more color on what trades in particular that you have been seeing the most pressures in and if these labor constraints have been more concentrated to certain markets than others.
Hey Ryan.
It's David.
It depends on the market – framing labor Sheetrock labor electricians A/C.
I mean every major trade in certain markets have been stretched very very tight.
So – this is the last weather comment I'll make that when you can't start a house for two months concrete labor and material becomes very very tight.
So it's a market by market trade by trade.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
And then just on the land market you guided to the 20%-plus incremental spending.
Can you just give a bit more color on the growth in the level of competition? We've heard certain peers saying that competition has been decreasing slightly.
What markets are currently more attractive than others and have the labor constraints caused you to change your underwriting on new land purchases? Thanks.
The labor's not going to impact our – I mean we're going to deal with labor and we're better positioned to deal with it than anybody else.
So that's an advantage to us.
Where we're going to invest where we're looking at it changes quarter to quarter.
And right now today we have markets we're underinvested in and are working hard to drive – to get a level of investment there that allows us to grow at what we think the market will give us.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our final question today is coming from Susan Berliner from JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just one quick question and Jessica and Bill you may laugh.
But after reporting a quarter like this and seeing your ratios can you update us with your conversations at least with S&amp;P and Fitch with regards to an IG rating? Certainly.
We have active communications with them in-person meetings with them as well.
And certainly the progress that we're making in our business the improvement we're showing in our liquidity and in our leverage are all positive things that rating agencies love to see.
From our standpoint if we continue to improve and continue to show the progress and do what we've said we're going to do we certainly believe that our metrics and the way we're operating our company are consistent with an investment-grade rating.
The actual decision and timing of when that will be is certainly out of our hands.
From our standpoint though the decision point or the goal of being investment grade isn't the end.
What our goal is is to be in position and once it has been achieved that it can be sustained over the long term through the cycles.
And so from our standpoint when it happens doesn't really matter.
It will happen and it will be sustained.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Sue.
Thank you.
We have reached the end of our question and answer session.
I'd like to turn the floor over to management for any further or closing comments.
Thank you Kevin.
We appreciate everyone's time on the call today and look forward to speaking with you again in January to share our first quarter results.
And to the D.R.
Horton team listening in out there congratulations on an outstanding year.
You are the best in the industry.
Thank you for what you do every day.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
We thank you for your participation today.