Please stand by.
Good morning.
My name is Casey and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call our first quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulations G.
relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investors section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Earnings and will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of this call will be archived in the Investors section of the website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived 'til our next quarterly call.
The replay of this call will also be available until April 26.
The replay number is (888)203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719)457-0820 internationally.
The confirmation code is 8183339.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the accompanying slide presentation our earnings release our first quarter Form 10-Q and other related presentation materials supplementing today's call for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
As announced on January 18 we reached an agreement to sell our Pacific Scientific Aerospace businesses.
For the current quarter the results of this business are reflected as discontinued operations in our statement of earnings as required by generally accepted accounting principles.
In addition our historical audited financial statements for the 3 years ended December 31 2010 we revised to reflect this business as discontinued operations.
We'll be filing these financial statements with the SEC later today under our Form 8-K.
All references in these remarks and accompanying presentation to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's businesses unless otherwise noted.
I'd also like to note that we'll be making some statements during the call that may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities law including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
It is possible that actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made.
We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I'd like to turn the call to Larry.
Matt thanks.
Good morning everyone.
We've gotten off to a great start in 2011 and I'm pleased to report an outstanding first quarter for Danaher.
We grew 10% organically in the first quarter with all of our segments reporting mid single-digit growth or better.
We feel very good about where the portfolio is today in terms of how our businesses are performing how they are positioned in our served markets and the macro drivers in these markets.
Over the last several years we've aimed many of our investments at the emerging markets which positions us well in the fastest-growing parts of the world.
Those investments are paying off as we grew nearly 20% in the emerging markets this quarter with China and Brazil leading the way.
We were also encouraged by the continued strength in the developed economies which grew to high single-digit rate in the quarter.
I want to provide a special word of thanks to our associates in Japan who in the face of great strategy have shown tremendous spirit and resilience.
In addition to our go-to-market initiatives we've also been making significant investments in innovation and new product development.
In the quarter R&amp;D as a percentage of sales was up 50 basis points year-over-year to 6.5%.
This level of investment is much higher than where we were just a few years ago and is indicative of our long-term trajectory.
Our R&amp;D efforts have led to a number of exciting new products throughout the portfolio which in turn we believe are helping drive market share gains in many of our businesses including Leica Videojet Fluke Radiometer Hach Lange and Kollmorgen with other important product launches scheduled for later this year.
During the quarter we delivered strong operational performance as evidenced by the outstanding margin performance with our core operating margin improvement up 245 basis points year-over-year.
Each of our segments delivered at least 200 basis points of core margin improvement.
So with that as a backdrop let me move to the details of the quarter.
Today we reported first quarter diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.61 representing a record first quarter for Danaher and a 33% increase as compared to our adjusted EPS last year.
Revenues for the quarter increased 11% to a record $3.3 billion with core revenues up 10%.
The impact of currency translation increased revenues by 1.5% while the impact of deconsolidating the Apex revenues more than offset sales growth attributed to acquisitions resulting in a net decrease of revenues of 0.5%.
Our year-over-year gross margin for the first quarter increased 390 basis points to 52.7% largely due to leverage from greater sales volumes productivity improvements and the higher gross margins of our newer businesses.
This is the third consecutive quarter that our gross margin has exceeded 50%.
Overall our operating margin in the first quarter increased 370 basis points year-over-year to 17.7% with our core operating margin up 245 basis points.
Included in the operating results was a $14.5 million in equity earnings contributed by Apex.
Absent the Apex contribution our operating margin was 17.2%.
First quarter operating cash flow was $434 million a 10% increase notwithstanding a $100 million increase year-on-year in income tax payments made during the quarter.
We expect the timing of our tax payments to normalize during the balance of the year.
Free cash flow was $385 million.
During the quarter we completed 2 acquisitions with aggregate annual revenues of approximately $250 million to strengthen our Product ID and Water Quality platforms.
We also announced the pending acquisition of Beckman Coulter.
Based in Brea California Beckman is a leading supplier of in-vitro diagnostic systems including instruments consumables and software for the biomedical laboratory market.
Its clinical diagnostic systems are found in hospitals and other clinical settings around the world and deliver critical information to physicians to diagnose disease make treatment decisions and monitor patient care.
To date we have received U.S.
anti-trust approval and expect to close the transaction late in the second quarter.
We are looking forward to sharing with you more details after the closing.
Turning to our 5 operating segments Test &amp; Measurement revenues increased 27.5% for the quarter with core revenues up 14%.
Our core operating margin for the first quarter increased 270 basis points.
Overall our operating margin increased 170 basis points to 20.7%.
Fluke core revenues grew at a mid-teens rate in the quarter with solid demand in all major geographies and product categories.
Emerging market revenues were up more than 20% led by Brazil where we are expanding our market presence with investments in feet on the street and a series of mid-priced core service and installation test tools.
At Tektronix core revenues were up mid-teens in the quarter led by sales of oscilloscopes and logic analyzers which were both up over 30% partially offset by continued softness in the video end markets.
The strength was broad-based geographically led again by the emerging markets.
We've been particularly pleased with the sales of our new mid-range line of oscilloscopes the DPO/MSO4000 and 5000 series which we launched last quarter.
Core revenues from our Communications businesses also grew at a mid-teens rate in the quarter with healthy demand for both our core enterprise tools and our network management solutions.
During the quarter Verizon Wireless selected Tektronix Communications to provide monitoring solutions for their next-generation LTE platform.
This was an important and exciting win for the team who were chosen in part due to the versatility and scalability of their products to provide deep end-to-end visibility into LTE network and service performance for Verizon.
Environmental segment revenues increased 9% in the quarter with core revenues up 7%.
Our core operating margin was up 240 basis points in the first quarter.
Overall our operating margin increased 230 basis points to 19.3%.
Water Quality core revenues increased at a high single-digit rate.
At Hach Lange the demand was solid for our core lab and process instrumentation in all major geographies.
Industrial and food and beverage verticals in the U.S.
Latin America and China were particularly robust during the quarter.
Hach continues to focus on expanding its service capabilities which have more than doubled in the past 2 years and currently account for about 10% of total revenues.
Trojan core revenues increased at a low double-digit rate in the quarter driven by robust growth in its industrial applications.
ChemTreat's core revenues also grew low double digits in the quarter.
ChemTreat continues to expand outside the U.S.
and their Canadian revenues have more than doubled in the last 2 years as they've invested in feet on the street initiatives to expand our penetration there.
During the quarter Hach expanded its direct sales and service team in Australia and New Zealand with the acquisition of Accurate Group enhancing our ability to provide local training and personalized application support in that region.
This acquisition represents another example of Hach Lange expanding its direct go-to-market capabilities.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's first quarter core revenues increased in a mid single-digit rate with robust shipments of dispensers and automatic tank gauges in North America and Europe partially offset by slower global sales of payment and point-of-sale systems.
During the quarter Gilbarco launched 2 new dispenser platforms specifically designed for Eastern Europe and India.
We expect these platforms to help capture additional market share in these fast-growing economies.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics revenues for the quarter increased at 21.5% compared to the prior year with core revenues up 9%.
Our core operating margin was up 220 basis points in the first quarter.
Overall our operating margin was up 730 basis points from the prior year to 14.4% primarily due to the first quarter 2010 acquisition-related charges that did not repeat in the first quarter of 2011.
Radiometer's core revenues grew at a high single-digit rate for the quarter.
This performance has been driven by healthy demand in Europe China and Japan for both the ABL90 and ABL80 blood gas analyzers which bodes well for future consumable sales.
We also continue to build AQT's installed base outside of North America with placements up more than 30% in the quarter.
Leica Biosystems' core revenues increased in excess of 10% in the quarter with strong demand in North America and Europe for our advanced staining systems which grew more than 20%.
We believe that we continue to take share in this market.
During the quarter we launched our HER2 fully automated breast cancer diagnostic test for the BOND system in Europe.
This is a critically important addition to our companion diagnostics reagent offering as we are now able to aid in the selection and identification of specific targeted therapies for breast cancer patients.
Leica Microsystems core revenues grew at a mid  single-digit rate during the quarter which we were particularly pleased with given the difficult year-over-year comparison as a result of Japanese stimulus activity in 2010.
Sales of compound and confocal microscopes into the life science research and industrial markets were particularly strong.
During the quarter we launched several of new research products including the SDAF inverted microscope with integrated spinning disc technology for high-speed comparable sectioning and 3D reconstruction addressing the high-growth live-cell imaging market.
We look forward to hosting investors at our Leica facility in Wetzlar Germany in a couple of weeks to share with them more Leica success stories.
And core revenues at AB SCIEX grew to high single-digit rate in the quarter with robust demand from the academic proteomic and applied markets.
Our new Triple TOF 5600 led the way.
Proteomics Researchers are selecting the 5600 because it is able to deliver both qualitative and quantitative analysis effectively on a single platform.
Customer acceptance and feedback on the new product continues to be outstanding.
Now full year into the acquisition AB SCIEX is clearly seeing the benefits of new products a much more focused go-to-market effort and the implementation of DBS.
Turning to Dental segment revenues increased 7.5% in the first quarter with core revenues up 5.5%.
Our core operating margin was up 275 basis points in the first quarter.
Overall our operating margin was up 220 basis points from the prior year to 10.7%.
KaVo revenues increased at a mid single-digit rate in the quarter with solid demand in all major geographies for our instruments and imaging products.
KaVo launched a record number of new products in the quarter at 2 of the largest dental industry trade shows the Chicago Midwinter Show and The International Dental Show or IDS held in Germany.
Doctors are particularly excited about the new OP300 a hybrid digital imaging system which integrates three imaging modalities; cephalometric using orthodontics along with 2D Panoramic and 3D Cone Beam on a single unit giving dentist a truly adaptable flexible imaging platform.
As the digitization of the dental practice continues the OP300 provides general practitioners for the first time with the range of technologies to perform more complex procedures such as implants in their own operatories instead of referring patients to the specialists.
Sybron core revenues grew at a mid single-digit rate in the quarter with good growth in general dentistry consumables infection prevention and orthodontic solutions.
Sales in the emerging markets were again strong as we continue to invest together with KaVo and go-to-market initiatives in those high-growth areas.
During the quarter we launched SonicFill a new composite filling system that combines Kerr's composite technology with KaVo's hand piece technology.
Customer feedback on this new product launch has been very positive.
Moving to our Industrial Technologies segment revenues increased 16% for the quarter with core revenues up 14.5%.
Our core operating margin increased 200 basis points in the first quarter.
Overall our operating margin was 21.3% a 210 basis point increase compared to the same period last year.
Product Identification core revenues were up mid-teens in the quarter with broad-based global growth across all major product categories including the Videojet's full suite of CIJ printers where we believe we continue to capture share.
Demand from electronics customers for our parts marking instruments was again strong this quarter.
During the quarter we launched a new suite of large character marking or LCM systems for barcode graphics and alphanumeric printing and packaging applications.
While still early we've been pleased with customer feedback thus far.
And in March we closed on the previously announced acquisition of EskoArtwork a leading full service solutions provider for the digital packaging design and production market based in Belgium.
With revenues of about $250 million Esko is an attractive adjacency to Videojet and our Product Identification platform.
Our Motion businesses' core revenues grew in excess of 20% in the quarter.
The momentum we saw build last year continued as we experienced significant growth in all major geographies and end markets.
The investments we've made during the last few years in our new AKM and AKD motors and drive product lines continue to pay off with robust demand in the quarter particularly among industrial automation customers.
We believe we continue to capture market share with AKM and AKD with volumes there up over 100% year-over-year.
So to wrap up the first quarter 2011 was an excellent start for Danaher.
Our portfolio of businesses is well-positioned.
The investments we've made in innovation and emerging markets continue to drive growth and share gains.
We are pleased with our team's performance which led to outstanding core revenue and earnings growth in the quarter.
We expect the global economy to continue to improve in 2011 led by the emerging markets with the developed markets also growing albeit at a lower rate.
We believe we are well-positioned with DBS driving our focus on our performance.
We are initiating second quarter 2011 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations guidance of $0.62 to $0.67.
Due to the broad strength we are seeing in our businesses we are increasing our full year adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations guidance from the prior range of $2.55 to $2.70 to a new range of $2.65 to $2.75 for the full year 2011.
This includes $0.04 of anticipated net dilution resulting from the impact of the Pacific Scientific Divestiture and the EskoArtwork acquisition.
This updated guidance excludes the impact of a pending acquisition of Beckman Coulter.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal comments.
We're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
The gain on the sale of the Aerospace business did you guys disclose the size of that before? That was $0.30 in the 10-Q? We think it hasn't closed it's eminent and it will be about $0.30 after tax.
Okay.
So what are you -- you're going to restructure that away obviously? We'll call that out separately.
Okay.
Will there be restructuring? Will there be incremental -- will you use that for incremental restructuring or no? I think they'll be restructuring through the year but we're not going to use that gain to offset it.
Okay.
So the numbers will be clean there? Yes.
Okay.
And then the core growth moving throughout the year -- sorry I got a lot going on this morning core growth for the second quarter what do you think there? And have you updated the core growth number for the year? Steve we do not envy your challenge today with everybody reporting.
On the core growth side I think with what we saw in the first quarter we come in to the second quarter here working against our toughest comp.
But I think we're looking at 6% to 8% core in the quarter and frankly I think probably looking at that rate for the year but feeling very good as we get going here in April for sure.
Okay.
So you'll be exiting the year at more of a kind of a 4% to 5% rate then? No I think if you look at where we would expect to be in the second quarter I think we'll be in that 6% to 8% range.
I suspect we'll be at the higher end of that range given what we see right now.
I think for the full -- for the remaining 3 quarters of the year I think we'll be in that 6% to 8% range.
And even with the 10% of first quarter we probably could be in that range for the year.
I don't think we'll be that muted come year end but we got a long way to travel.
It's still early in the year between now and December.
Sure.
And then orders just the book-to-bill one last question for the quarter? We're a little bit north of 1 and it trended nicely during the quarter.
Okay thanks a lot.
Appreciate it.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Scott Davis with Morgan Stanley.
Everybody handles earnings releases differently I choose to eat doughnuts and drink lots of coffee and generally abuse myself.
So on another note your gross margin was just fantastic and be on kind of probably the most bullish of models.
Talk about what drove that? I mean obviously you must be getting price out there because clearly you couldn't have had any headwind on price cost with that kind of gross margin.
I mean how much of it is mix how much of it is price give us a little granularity on that? Sure.
Well I think we -- while we do see some of those inflationary pressures and price was a positive we nearly had a point of price.
And I think that price-cost balance is in a good place Scott because as a 50% gross margin business we don't have a lot of those core commodity exposures that some other folks obviously will.
I think that with the core growth being better particularly with some of our newer and/or higher gross margin businesses that certainly helped.
And I think we've just had very good execution from a cost and from the other variables in the gross margin calculation.
I'm just obviously very pleased with the execution across-the-board in that regard.
I think you saw that really in all 5 segments.
Okay fair enough.
As a follow-up you've got a big one to bite off Beckman.
But are you still out there looking at deals? Is there capacity to look at deals? I mean just talk to us about how you think about forward M&amp;A and forward cash for investments? Scott I think we're very much in the position that we said we would be when we announced Beckman.
Obviously that transaction is still pending but we're much in the deal game not as much we typically would be.
But you saw us announce another small acquisition here for water we're looking at a number of things.
We probably are talking about a deal envelope barring other sources of capital in the $300 million range for the rest of this year.
But I think by and large we get back into probably the $2 billion range in 2012 which at this point is only 9 months out.
So I don't think at this juncture we're feeling unduly pinched by obviously the implications from the Beckman deal.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Good luck guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Scott.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Bob Cornell with Barclays Capital.
I'm surprised nobody answered that Beckman Coulter yet.
So there is a press release talking about any delays in the FDA address so the high throughput machine maybe you could give us some color on that and what it means? What Beckman put out earlier this week was an update I think really for investors given the delay in their submission to the FDA for the approval or the re-approval of the Troponin test on their 2 major testing platforms.
I think we want to respect the company's primacy on commenting on those sorts of matters in great detail but I think given the work required they basically wanted to make sure investors and their customers understood that they were going to be submitting to the FDA later than they had initially flagged.
I don't think we were wildly surprised by that.
There is a lot of work to do in preparing for those submissions.
And it's work obviously that the company is very focused on.
But in terms of the big picture relative to Beckman I don't think the delay that they have announced is material.
Given your comment that it's a second -- late second quarter close I mean could you update us on the accretion dilution comments for '11 and '12? Bob it does appear that as opposed to closing and we may be having the business for 2 months in this quarter it's more likely going to -- it could well be towards the end of June and we won't have much of an impact here in the quarter.
We'll come back and update as we get to closing or if we close the end of June maybe we'll do it in the third week of July with earnings.
But it could have some modest impact here in 2011.
But given the things that we're working on we have planned I don't see that impacting our sort of 2012 outlook her.
Well I mean did you guys at one point that this could be $0.05 to $0.10 accretive this year and $0.25 to $0.30 accretive next year just my memory may be failing me? That's correct Bob.
And given the delay here that obviously could have some impact on this year but we don't see that impacting next year at this point.
Not next year.
Final point bigger picture point you guys mentioned a couple of times the lower price point products and the variety of the end markets I mean could you just address the broad opportunity for Danaher to get into the local products at lower price points and make good margins? I mean you mentioned that at a couple of points and I'm sure that's a part of the R&amp;D boost and so forth and so on and is that strategy going to impact gross profit margins? I mean how is that all low price point emerging market development going to reflect itself in the results? Well Bob I think that when we talk about our emerging market product strategy we really want to play up and down the price point continuum for two reasons.
The first thing of course the deeper we penetrate those markets the faster we plug into the underlying growth in those markets.
And secondly the further we go down that price point continuum is by and large we really have started at the high-priced-point segment with our western brands.
The tougher we make it for local competitors to come up the experienced curve and take that volume into the developed markets.
I think when you look at what we've done in building the China businesses and are now really trying to drive in earnest in India and Brazil.
We really start not with the high-priced point products and taking their prices down but really putting together product specifications building material cost targets and the like so that we're geared towards meeting that differentiated customer need at a cost position that allows us to drive margin maintenance and hopefully we often aim for this margin expansion.
So I don't believe there is an inherent tradeoff in humming down that price point continuum and your gross margins if the products back and the cost targets are designed upfront with that market reality in mind.
Yes thanks.
That's all for me.
Very interesting.
Thanks Larry.
Thanks Dan.
Thanks Bob.
We'll take our next question from Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> So just first question on maybe at this point working capital and your cash conversion which was -- looks like still healthy 90% plus 92% but down.
And as you build for all this growth what was your experience? It looks like your receivable days up inventory days up a bit.
I mean how did that go or any issues? Steve it's Dan.
The build we had at working capital was very consistent with what they've had in sort of prior years than the first quarter.
The biggest driver of the year-on-year on the sub-100% still 90% sub-100% conversion was we had a $100 million increase in tax payments year-on-year in the first quarter.
Probably have pretty heavy tax payments here in Q2 but then that will flip in the second half.
So I think from the broader issue on cash flow conversion I think we're going to have a very strong year particularly as we get in the second half with likely lower tax payments as compared to the second half a year ago.
On the working capital side as we did last year with double-digit core growth we had a very modest increase in working capital.
And I think if we are in that 6% to 8% range though that could suggest a multi-$100 million increase in working capital we don't expect that at all.
We think it will be -- working capital by the end of the year will be flat to slightly up.
Inc.</strong> Okay all right great.
And may be on dental margin increase which has been a long road.
Can you comment about what the dynamics were in that business and how much is sort of the result of initiatives versus maybe just sort of tailwinds? Well I think with KaVo being up nearly 400 basis points they would -- they'd argue they earned more of that.
Obviously the growth helps both at KaVo and at Sybron but I really think Steve it's fundamentally the story that you're well aware of and we've told many times in terms of the efforts just to get that cost structure right and to make sure that we're driving growth that's accretive both in terms of our market share positions and our growth in operating margins.
Inc.</strong> Okay all right.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Jon Wood with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> So Larry could you talk about Test &amp; Measurement the book-to-bill in the first quarter and just talk about the year.
Is it reasonable to assume that franchise can do double-digit in 2011 at this point or is it too early to go there? Well I think that we look at just book-to-bill for T&amp;M.
They -- where that matters most I think is at Tek and they had north of 1.0 on a book-to-bill basis and we were very pleased with that.
I think if we look at TEK we see a very good stream of new products forthcoming which we're excited about.
I mean given the -- our sense of the market we'd probably have maybe a little more market risk in the wake of the Japan tragedy and T&amp;M than we do some other businesses but by and large I'd suspect even with the tough comps that T&amp;M will be one of the lead businesses for us this year relative to our core growth.
I'd certainly expect them to be in the double-digit range here in the second quarter and certainly would not rule it out for the full year.
They are very well positioned not only at TEK but frankly across that segment.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
One last one on SCIEX and this is another big year for product introductions feasibly.
Do you need another major product line turn this year to maintain kind of that high single-digit trajectory in your view or is the TripleTOF really in the early innings of penetration? Well I would say that first of all we were very pleased with the performance at SCIEX.
Really the first full quarter outside of the transition arrangement because we obviously anniversaried that deal.
So to see the top line performance and the bottom line performance at SCIEX was reassuring and they frankly they did better than we would have anticipated in part because there has been so much work done but also they probably had one of the tougher comps given the Japan stimulus of any of our businesses.
Clearly the 56 [TripleTOF 5600] has been impactful.
I think we are in the early innings.
But that said there are other things forthcoming and we're looking forward to being at ASMS in Denver come June and talking about the next wave of innovation at AB SCIEX.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thanks for the comments.
Thank you Jon.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from John Inch with Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
We'll start with Japan.
Japan I think is about 5% of your total revs.
And I think you guys had called out roughly a point of top line expectation drag from Japan this quarter which I guess sort of implies Japan all else would be down about 20%.
What did you actually see and what are you seeing there? And maybe you could comment on if you've seen any sort of supply chain issues and how you're dealing with that? Yes I think that -- first of all John what we saw since the earthquake is just an incredible level of strength of character of leadership on the part of our team.
I don't think I've ever been more proud of our people particularly given the circumstances that I have been with our Japan team.
What we were flagging obviously immediately following the quake was some concern that we could have some immediate revenue impact.
We did not see that.
That really didn't materialize in any meaningful way in the quarter.
As you know Japan's year end is March so it was an important time and there was real revenue at risk -- thrilled that it didn't materialize.
I think what we like most companies at this point are trying to sort through is just what happened as the ramifications from everything that has transpired here work their way into the Japanese economy.
It's less than 5% of sales.
It's obviously important but it's not like it's going to have I think a significant impact for us going through the rest of the year as best we see it in terms of our sales in Japan.
But I would characterize the situation as being a bit fluid at this point.
I think our greater concern again like most companies is how supply chains come back online during the course of the year.
We haven't really baked in anything here relative to negative effects but it's probably one of the variables in our outlook and certainly getting a lot of management attention because it only takes 1 specialty material.
It only takes 1 IC that may come from a Northern Japanese facility obviously to ricochet through the -- a particular product line on a global basis.
But at this point I think as each day passes the news in that regard becomes more encouraging.
But again I think it's a dynamic that's getting a tremendous amount of work on this end.
And we'll know -- we'll be smarter about things as we go through the course of the year.
I don't think we can wholly categorically rule out some risk in that regard as we look out to the last 9 months of the year.
Yes well Larry understanding the broader risk I'm just wondering I mean a lot of your products have some kind of electronic content in them right? So have you identified...
They do.
Yes have you identified the one area that may be an issue? I'm just trying to think -- you wouldn't want to kind of hit a quarter and one of your segments sort of skips simply because you couldn't have supply chain issues.
I'm just wondering if you thought about -- well if there's anything it's probably this area and it's pertaining to this.
And right now we're trying to dual source or do something like that.
I mean have you identified anything in that regard yet or not really? Well John I think we're well aware that we can't ship product if we're missing a particular component.
I think given the nature of our products and the diversity of our portfolio the risk that we're talking about here could crop up anywhere.
I think what you really have to do and what we're doing and I get an update on this every 48 hours is you literally have to go to the component level right? This isn't about Northern Japan.
It's not about a particular company or a commodity category.
You've got to go to that SKU and understand the current inventory position where that supplier is relative to their own production capability and verify that.
So we are at that point where we think we have risk even a potential risk.
We are working through sourcing inventory in other locations looking at resourcing options availing ourselves of all those array of options.
I think if you look at what we've been able to do over time in terms of holding on-time delivery in the face of growth driving margin expansion in good times and in bad we've got an outstanding procurement materials management team standing up to that test right now.
But again I think that there's still a lot of work to do to work through our supply base to make sure that we have no disruptions to our customers let alone our investors as we look through to the rest of 2011.
Yes that's fair.
Can I ask you about China? You called China out as a continued source of strength along with Brazil.
China has obviously been trying to reign in growth to a degree and obviously Japan is a big trader with China.
What are your folks on the ground saying Larry with respect to kind of the runway or trajectory for the rest of the year? Do you think kind of macro tightening is going to have much of an impact in your businesses and clearly like Beckman has got a pretty good position in China as well.
I'm just wondering if there are implications for Beckman as it pertains to China? John while we don't have a macroeconomist on staff in China Dan and I did have the opportunity just 2 nights ago to do an in-depth review with the China team.
On the back of an outstanding first quarter despite the very real policy direction that you referenced our team see nothing but very robust demand across the portfolio.
It was striking.
Their level of conviction and confidence given the start of the year and what they are hearing from customers.
Again I think we need to be very mindful of the issues that the Chinese Government are trying to bring to the fore.
But right now we're very excited about the year we could have in China.
And for a number of us those our companies over there we've had a very significant year-on-year increase in feet on the street and sales people over there.
So in some cases where they are seeing some modest slowing we've got much better coverage.
And we think we can kind of grow through that at these sort of rates.
And just lastly Larry the big picture delay with respect to Beckman and the FDA that you called out you said it was not material.
Can you just help us understand with respect to you guys why is it not material? Meaning just again from sort of very high level isn't there a risk that this kind of gets further delayed? Like at what point does it really become material or is this simply because the deal is based truly on cost synergy and you're not really that concerned about sort of this testing stuff getting into market on a timely basis? John just to be clear what I intended to convey is that the delay here is not something that in our view is unanticipated I think we didn't assume as I think we referenced back in January that we were planning for perfection here relative to the resubmissions.
So the slippage a bit here as long as they get that application in and it's approved and again you go back to their 8-K their caveats there but given the planning assumptions that are in place on this end I think we're still going to be in a very good place.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Deane Dray with Citi.
Thank you.
I wasn't planning on asking a question about motion but when you go across the businesses and motion stands out as really upside performance you said 20%-plus growth all geographies all end markets.
So if you just take us through some additional color here on was it retrofits or new capacity being added with the customers share gains any further color will be helpful? Deane thanks for asking because they really had a terrific performance on the back of I think of an excellent 2010.
I think that there really is no one silver bullet here.
In essence what we referenced in the prepared remarks is very important.
These new product introductions have really helped us with design wins.
I think that we are doing a much better job not only investing but executing on the ground in the emerging markets particularly in China.
But that said overall the commercial execution on the part of the Kollmorgen and Thomson teams Dan and I were just with them as well the other day I think has dramatically improved vis-a-vis where it was just a few years ago.
So you've got technology you've got better commercial capability you've got more emerging market exposure and obviously you've got a market dynamic where the tailwinds are strong put all that together they're leading the way right now for us on the core growth side.
I know Motion does not have much in the way of backlog but in terms of visibility quote activity how sustainable does this look over the next couple of quarters? Well obviously the comps get tougher for them and I think we'll see their core growth taper a bit as we go through the year.
But I would still expect them to be a growth leader for us this year.
While they don't have maybe booked backlog per se Deane I think as you look at their design wins and their likely shipments assuming certain build rates on the part of their OEM customers they're looking at a good 2011.
Great.
And then Just last one from me regarding the 2011 guidance increase.
If my -- looking at the incremental margins based upon what we've talked about in December 35% to 40% looks like you could be tracking towards the upper end of that range.
Is that still your outlook for the year on incrementals? Yes I think that's a fair assessment Deane.
Obviously with a range of 265 to 275 if you dialed in the high end of that core growth range for the year of 6% to 8% with a mid to high 30 ECM you kind of get to that – you get into that zone.
I think again I think one of the things we want to make sure we share with folks is that we had an outstanding first quarter great start for the year.
We are mindful the Japanese risks that are out there maybe more so on the global supply chain than local sales but they are both real still fluid.
Clearly some inflationary pressures out there.
And I think with all that said we certainly want to make sure that in a year like this we are investing ahead both with respect to growth and margin expansion.
So we've already begun some of the dialogue here about what are some of the things we might have thought were really 2012 initiative that we might be able to action this year.
That's part of what we want to do here to make sure we've got the latitude not only to deliver a good 2011 but also continue to build for '12 and '13.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
We'll make our question from Mark Douglass with Longbow Research.
We can talk through margins a little bit very strong moving industrial TEK margins.
Do we see these fairly sustainable given the continued strength that is going to be likely in the Product ID in Motion or is it going to be small drop-offs certainly in 2Q with Esko being folded in now? Yes you'll Mark operationally we expect to see these sort of margins for the balance of the year.
We will have about $25 million of non-cash expenses related to Esko acquisition that'll bleed out primarily in Q2 but some in the second half as well.
So the margins we're seeing in Motion Product ID the other businesses Industrial remain quite strong.
We're seeing a little bit of inflation but we're also getting pretty good price particularly at Motion.
And we think absent some of these non-cash charges which will bring the reported margin down the true operating margins we think we can sustain at these levels.
Great.
Thank you.
I was going to ask about the -- with steel prices going up at Motion would be safe as well so thanks for that.
And then as you kind of think about margins on Test &amp; Measurement as you continue to integrate Keithley do you see a pretty good trajectory there assuming T&amp;M stays pretty healthy which it seems that it will at least through '11? Sure.
I mean we clearly -- we had almost 21% in the first quarter.
And I think you'll see some modest sequential improvement maybe to 50 100 basis points over the next couple of quarters in T&amp;M margins as well in part as we partially as we get the benefit of integrating Keithley.
And thanks for bringing Keithley up Mark because that is an acquisition obviously rather recent perhaps overshadowed by Beckman.
That integration that activity has gone exceptionally well.
We're very pleased with the team their embrace of Tektronix.
The opportunities really to partner both from a new product development and technology view but also in terms of leveraging the Tektronix global channels to help accelerate Keithley sales.
Very pleased to have that one on board.
Right.
And was there kind of core sales for Keithley kind of similar to the segment average or are they closer to what TEK put up 5% to 8%.
They were very much in line with the rest of the team.
I think the rest of T&amp;M.
Right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Nigel Coe with Deutsche Bank.
So obviously the delay in the closure of Beckman does this change any way the size of the acquisition? The reason I ask is that you guys are earning roughly $4 million of free cash flow a quarter.
So in theory it just reduce the need to raise cash.
So I mean just any comment on that would be helpful? Nigel I think that our previous disclosure of around $1 billion of equity I think that still stands.
We're pleased with the cash flow very strong with our cash position which will hopefully in the coming days as we close Pacific Scientific we'll be north of $2 billion.
And that obviously will go towards the Beckman acquisition.
I think we're still comfortable with equity in that sort of range.
In part we want to give ourselves some latitude here on the M&amp;A side.
Okay and then GVR doesn't get a lot of ad time but high oil prices retail gas prices pushing $5 a gallon I mean how does the investment environment change with high gas prices? Do they tend to spend more CapEx and could that benefit GVR? Anything you've seen in the past that might suggest that? Well I think that there have been some rules of thumb in the past that would suggest at least in the developed markets that retail spend tracks pretty well with retail margin.
But the market has really undergone I think a good deal of change over time.
Obviously the emerging markets are far more important there a bit less sensitive to that regard.
The offering that we have given the automation around the payment POS and card list has also been a driver that has defied some of the underlying economics.
So I think we worry about that dynamic less.
But clearly what we've seen is a real uptick in investment broadly that we think will continue over the next several years.
In the short-term though Nigel as you know we had an exceptional year last year in payment particularly given some of the compliance deadlines.
And that's where we're probably facing some of our stiffest headwind here in the second quarter and through the rest of this year and GVR looking at the second quarter just here in the short-term likely is going to be down low double digits in part because of these tougher comps that will bring the core and environmental down to probably a flattish figure offsetting some good performance in water quality.
But long term I think we see good investment levels around the world and that combined with these automation requirements positions GVR very well let alone of course the uptick in environmental concerns at retail.
Sure.
And then just finally just to clarify your comments on Japan mean it's encouraging that you don't see a major impact on the financials they're down for the year but just to kind of clarify in late March and through April you haven't seen a significant sort of deterioration in your Japanese business? That's right.
When we were together in New York what we were watching twice daily was just what the implications would be from the disruptions to the infrastructure let alone customer operations and the like.
That news got better virtually every day as we went through March and they finished pretty much in line with the original expectation which I thought was simply remarkable.
I think at this point as things evolve we don't see today tremendous negative headwind there.
But I think probably next to some of the specific issues at GVR we are expressing some caution around the situation on the ground in Japan.
But thus far I think we feel like that's manageable.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Nigel.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Richard Eastman with Robert W.
Baird.
Larry and Dan could you address in the Life Sciences LSD segment the operating margin there just on an absolute basis I think I understand the basis point improvement year-over-year with the restructuring cost and things at AB SCIEX but at this 14.4% level is that -- again is that sustainable? Was that helped by mix? It sounds like the TSA is out that probably helps and should be sustainable.
Do we build off of that margin level for the balance of the year? Rick I think at this point we think we'll be in that range.
I mean it was a quirk that everything went right for LSD both the top line and the mix was very favorable.
As you know a year ago that segment margins were 7%.
So we doubled it year-on-year.
Also in part because some of the strength we're seeing there we've ramped up some investments both on the growth side.
We've got some clinical studies at both Radiometer and Leica Bio that will cost some money here in the next couple of quarters.
There's also some restructuring.
So I think we're very pleased where we are.
I'm not sure you'll see movement here in fact I think sequentially in Q2 because some of these growth investments in restructuring sequentially margins will come down a little bit.
Spending will be in sort of the mid-teens range for the full year but we'll be doing things this year that will hopefully get us another leg up in 2012.
Okay.
And then Larry is there any movement that you can kind of mention on the AQT product in the U.S.
in terms of approval? There is movement and that's probably all I should say.
I think what you've seen us try to do is avoid being specific given the process that we're going through right now with the authorities that we continue to make progress.
But in terms of when we'll able to launch I think I'm going to defer that to the day we launch.
But we're thrilled.
I think it's important to recognize that that product outside of the U.S.
continues to be well accepted.
We saw another good quarter of placement globally.
We're up to nearly 500 instruments installed.
That obviously really begins to build I think an exceptional foundation for the consumable stream as utilization picks up.
So we're very encouraged that we've got the right product.
We are going to make sure we address the questions and the needs of the U.S.
regulators.
And once we do we'll be ready to go.
Is it likely this year I mean that we hope this year? I stand by my prior comments.
That's okay.
There is positive movement got it.
And then one other thing it just felt like we maybe took a little extra time to highlight some of the new products in some of the segments and we've got some key major price point products like the 5600 that have come to market now.
Would you look at your growth rate this year thinking 6% to 8% core for the full year? Would you feel like there is maybe a point probably not 2 but a point or 2 of incremental growth that is more than end market recovery and it's a fairly aggressive new product intro this year relative to past? Well I think we're getting better at execution in terms of conception development and launch.
We're obviously spending more money.
You see that in the uptick in R&amp;D.
I think it's really in many respects table stakes in some of these industries and markets that we've entered.
What's really hard to segment Rick is when we drive growth even with tailwind.
How much of that typically while we've got this increased vitality will we attribute to the new products vis-a-vis the improved commercial and go-to-market execution.
It's just very hard.
I don't think we want to try to internally get into that game.
If we're winning we're winning.
We're doing everything we can to do so to try to parse that for ourselves let alone for you.
I'm not sure that's high value-add.
Yes that's fine.
Okay thank you.
Yes thank you Rick.
Thank you.
And due to time constraints our last question will come from Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick ones on second quarter core you guys had talked about a number of different segments.
Just wondering if you could follow up on Industrial and Dental? Sure Terry.
I think Dental we continue to see in sort of that mid single-digit rate.
Industrial probably double-digit 10% 10% plus.
And where is Apex in full year guidance at this point? They came in about -- they contributed about $15 million in the quarter.
We expect that to be about $60 million for the full year good ramp up over last year but they're also doing a fair amount of restructuring which again I think will get another step up in 2012.
Okay and then kind of lastly kind of a follow-up on the last question Larry.
A lot of benefit from new products growth a better margins and really I guess the question is as we move in to 2012 does the curve or the impact of all that sort of start to flatten or do you see the flattening further out beyond 2012? I know it's tough because you have a lot of different segments and products.
But I think -- maybe just touch on that? Sure.
I think we feel very good about those things that we can control both from an innovation and a go-to-market perspective.
I think with all the history that's been made in the macros seen in the last 3 months we're not going to get too far our ahead of ourselves on those calls but I think we like the positions that we have and we like the markets that we're in.
If the global recovery continues the pace we're going to be very well placed.
We're well-positioned going to '12 and '13.
So does R&amp;D stay at 6.5% through the year or should we expect that to come back down? It should be in that zone.
I mean well obviously -- part of the latitude that we want to make sure we retain through the year is to take that up above plan above budget where those opportunities present themselves.
And we had a couple of discussions just this week too in that direction.
Maybe just squeeze just one last one in did you call out Videojet core in the quarter? We did.
It was in mid-teens.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thanks Terry.
Thank you.
And at this time I'll turn the conference back over to Matt McGrew for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Casey.
Just Dan and I are around all day today for any follow-up calls.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is April and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Thanks April.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investors section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Earnings and will remain available following the call.
Because we acquired Beckman Coulter to close at the end of the quarter we intend to file our second quarter Form 10-Q during the week of July 25.
In the future we expect to return to our usual practice and file our 10-Q at the same time as we release earnings.
The audio portion of this call will be archived in the Investors section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
The replay of this call will also be available until July 28 2011.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally.
The confirmation code is 4214214.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the accompanying slide presentation our earnings release and other related presentation materials supplementing today's call and Danaher's quarterly report on Form 10-Q when it is filed for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
All references in these remarks and accompanying presentation to earnings revenues and other company specific financial metrics relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's business unless otherwise noted.
I'd also like to note that we will be making some statements during the call that may be forward-looking within the meaning of the federal securities law including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set out in our SEC filing.
It is possible that actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we might make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn the call over to Larry Matt thanks.
And good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report another record quarter for Danaher.
We look back here on the first half of 2011.
We've gotten off to an excellent start from both the core growth and an operational perspective.
Core growth in the second quarter was 7.5%.
We feel good about where we are today.
Our portfolio of premier brands has never been stronger.
Our businesses are performing well.
We are well positioned in our certain markets and the macro drivers propelling our growth remain intact.
We continue to be encouraged by the current tone of the businesses.
But given the recent economic headlines and macro data points globally we've been paying particular attention to our leading indicators.
We grew at a mid-teens rate in the emerging markets in the quarter with China growing more than 20%.
We've always taken a long view of the emerging markets believing that our businesses can't be leaders globally in the markets they serve without leading in the emerging markets.
The developed markets grew mid-single digits in the quarter with the U.S.
a bit stronger than Europe.
The Danaher Business System enables us to capture market share through innovation new product introductions and go-to-market initiatives.
AB SCIEX Videojet Fluke Kollmorgen ChemTreat Hach Tektronix Communications and Radiometer are among the businesses where we believe we have taken notable share from the competition.
During the quarter we delivered strong operational performance with our core operating margin improving 160 basis points year-over-year with Test &amp; Measurement Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics and Industrial Technologies all delivering over 100 basis points of improvement all the while continuing to invest in growth opportunities and restructuring-related activities for future margin expansion.
So with that as a bit of a backdrop let me move to the details of the quarter.
Today we reported second quarter adjusted diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations excluding the impact of the acquisition of Beckman Coulter of $0.69 representing a record second quarter for Danaher and a 28% increase as compared to our adjusted EPS last year.
Revenues for the quarter increased 15.5% to a record $3.7 billion with core revenues up 7.5%.
The impact of currency translation increased revenues by 5% while acquisitions more than offset the impact of de-consolidating the Apex revenues resulting in a net 3% increase of revenues.
Our year-over-year gross margin for the second quarter increased 250 basis points to 52.4% largely due to leverage from greater sales volumes productivity improvements and the higher gross margins of our newer businesses.
Overall our operating margin in the second quarter increased 80 basis points year-over-year to 16.9% with our core operating margin up 160 basis points.
Included in the operating results was $14 million in equity earnings contributed by Apex.
Absent the Apex contribution our operating margin was 16.5%.
Operating cash flows from continuing operations for the first half were $1.1 billion a 26% increase compared to the first half of last year.
Free cash flow from continuing operations for the first half of the year was over $1 billion and our free cash flow from continuing operations to net income ratio was a healthy 121%.
We are now confident free cash flow will exceed $2 billion in 2011 which would be a first for Danaher.
During the quarter we completed 3 acquisitions including the previously announced acquisition of Beckman Coulter.
Our strong balance sheet and cash flow enabled us to finance the acquisition in a very cost-effective way.
We are just 3 weeks into our acquisition of Beckman Coulter and we are thrilled to be bringing on this iconic franchise in the Diagnostics and Life Sciences base.
We're excited to get started in the level of enthusiasm by the Beckman team and their early embrace of DBS has been outstanding.
Over time we'll strengthen Beckman's competitiveness through enhanced quality innovation and commercial execution.
We will also take full advantage of cost reduction opportunities and the strategic synergies in clinical and research applications that we see at Beckman with our Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics businesses.
So turning to our 5 operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement revenues increased 24.5% for the quarter with core revenues up 9.5%.
Test &amp; Measurement's core operating margin for the second quarter increased 120 basis points.
Overall operating margin increased 110 basis points to 22.4%.
Fluke core revenues grew low double digits in the quarter with solid demand for our industrial products including our 190 Series II handheld ScopeMeter and our 810 Vibration Tester.
We saw growth in all major geographies led again by the emerging markets which grew in excess of 30% during the quarter.
We are confident that Fluke is outperforming the market.
At Tektronix core revenues were up mid-single digits in the quarter with orders up low double digits.
Sales of oscilloscopes and video test equipment were particularly robust in the emerging markets.
TEK continues to invest in innovation and in the second half of this year we'll introduce a new category of mid-range oscilloscopes to address evolving industry and engineering challenges.
Additionally the introduction of a new oscilloscope capable of greater than 30 gigahertz bandwidth across multiple channels will further enhance our product scope performance portfolio and will help meet electronic designer's needs for more accurate characterization of high-speed serial data beyond currently available platforms.
Core revenues from our communications businesses grew to mid-teens rate led by healthy demand for our network management solutions in North America.
We continue to see good momentum from our LTE offering as evidenced by several significant new customer wins during the quarter.
We've launched a series of new products across the businesses during the quarter including Fluke Networks' OptiView XG network analysis tablet designed for automated network and application analysis in the deployment and troubleshooting of new technologies as well as Arbor Networks' Pravail Availability Protection System designed to ensure application availability for data centers and in cloud computing.
Environmental segment revenues increased 5% in the quarter with core revenues declining 0.5%.
Despite essentially flat core growth and continued growth investments the segment core operating margin was up 20 basis points in the second quarter.
Overall operating margin increased 10 basis points to 21.7%.
Water quality core revenues increased at a high single digit rate.
And Hach Lange the demand continued to be healthy for core lab instrumentation particularly for industrial applications.
During the quarter we did see a slowdown in demand from our municipal customers though overall municipal growth was still positive.
On a positive note we were encouraged by Hach's strong order book that saw orders improving sequentially each month through the quarter.
Trojan core revenues increased at a mid-single digit rate in the quarter driven by robust growth in industrial applications particularly in the emerging markets.
Those of you who were with us in December will recall Jon Clark's presentation on the $1 billion ballast water opportunity which would require cargo ships to monitor and disinfect ballast water prior to discharge at port.
Currently 28 countries representing 25% of the world's deadweight tonnage have ratified the agreement and full ratification is widely expected to occur this year.
Trojan's land and ship-based testing program is underway and we're starting to see order activity there.
ChemTreat's core revenues grew low double digits in the quarter their third consecutive quarter of double-digit core growth with particularly solid demand from industrial customers in boiler applications.
During the quarter we expanded our Water Quality Group with the acquisition of ADCON Telemetry a leader in low power wireless telemetry systems for environmental monitoring and in drinking in wastewater operations.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's second quarter core revenues decreased at a low double digit rate due largely to difficult year-over-year comparisons resulting from enhanced industry security standards last year.
We continue to see strong demand for dispensers in North America and Europe and continued double-digit growth at Veeder-Root.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
Revenues for the quarter increased 30.5% with core revenues up 8%.
Our core operating margin was up 390 basis points in the second quarter.
Overall our operating margin decreased 110 basis points from the prior year to 4.9% primarily due to acquisition-related transaction costs change in control charges and fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue associated with the Beckman Coulter acquisition.
Radiometer's core revenues grew at a high single digit rate in the quarter driven by continued success over ABL90 and ABL80 blood gas analyzers and consumables across all major geographies with particular strength in Europe China and Japan.
The rollout of AQT is progressing well with over 25 units placed in emerging markets alone during the quarter.
Leica Biosystems' core revenues increased at a mid-single digit rate in the quarter driven primarily by healthy demand for our core histology systems in China Japan and North America.
During the quarter we equipped the University of Southern California's new outreach lab with a complete histology system including BOND-III advanced stainers core histology instruments reagents for both advanced and core staining and our first Cerebro sample tracking system to help their lab identify and track patient samples through the histology workflow.
With this placement USC will now serve as a key reference site for Cerebro here in the U.S.
Leica Microsystems' core revenues grew at a mid-single digit rate in the quarter driven by strong sales for confocal and surgical microscopes in China and Latin America.
Core revenues at AB SCIEX grew at a mid-teens rate in the quarter.
Demand was broad-based with research applied and pharma markets all growing in excess of 10%.
We continue to be very pleased with the tremendous success of TripleTOF 5600 which has exceeded expectations and more importantly is making a significant impact in the market with customers.
At the ASMS show in May we had over 20 scientists including many key opinion leaders to present their results at AB SCIEX's user meeting which speaks to the impact the technology is having on the scientific community.
At ASMS as well we launched SelexION an innovative differential ion mobility spectrometry technology quantitative and qualitative analysis for use on the QTRAP 5500 and the TripleTOF 5600 to improve data quality and accelerate sample preparation.
As we mentioned at the outset during the quarter we closed on the previously announced acquisition of Beckman Coulter.
While it's still early we have been pleased with the customer and associate feedback we have received thus far.
Our initial operating reviews have been positive and we look forward to sharing further successes with you in the coming months.
Turning to Dental.
Segment revenues increased 18% in the second quarter with core revenues up 6.5%.
Our core operating margin was up 25 basis points in the second quarter.
Overall our operating margin was up 10 basis points from the prior period to 10.9%.
KaVo core revenues increased at a mid-single digit rate in the quarter.
Our imaging products have grown low double digit thus far this year due in part to the continued success of the DEXIS Platinum intra-oral sensor and our recently introduced OP300 hybrid digital imaging system.
Demand in North America was robust in the quarter and we continue to build momentum in the emerging markets where KaVo and Sybron are collaborating more intently and investing together in go-to-market initiatives.
Sybron core revenues grew at a high single digit rate in the quarter led by orthodontic solution and infection prevention products in North America and the emerging markets generally as well as the absence of inventory de-stocking that occurred in the prior year period.
Customer response to Kerr's recently launched composite filling system SonicFill continues to be very positive helping drive high teens core growth in general dentistry consumables.
So moving on Industrial Technologies revenues increased 32% for the quarter with core revenues up 14.5%.
Our core operating margin increased 190 basis points in the second quarter.
Overall our operating margin was 21.7% a 100 basis point increase compared to the same period last year.
Product Identification core revenues were up low double digits in the quarter with broad-based growth across all major geographies and product categories.
Demand from electronics customers for our parts marking systems was again strong this quarter and we believe we continue to capture market share.
During the quarter we also launched the 1610 DH a dual head version of our 1000 series CIJ printer.
This high-speed continuous inject printer is designed for applications requiring printing in 2 locations on the same product or on multiple lanes of a web application and is ideal for food and beverage pharmaceutical and building material applications.
While still early we've been pleased with the customer feedback with this new product.
Our Motion businesses' core revenues grew at a mid-teens rate in the quarter.
The momentum we saw late last year and earlier this year continued as we experienced significant growth in all major geographies and markets.
Kollmorgen's AKM and AKD motors and drives continues to capture share and we are on track to double AKD drive revenues this year compared to 2010.
So to wrap up a good start to 2011.
We're obviously excited to have Beckman on board and from what we've seen thus far DBS is going to have high impact at Beckman and that gives us a lot of confidence not only to tackle the challenges in the business but also in our ability to take advantage of both the growth and cost reduction opportunities.
Our business has continued to perform very much in line with expectations that we laid out in December.
With DBS we have the potential to drive organic growth and margin expansion and with our increased exposure to higher growth emerging markets we believe we are well positioned to continue to outperform with the remainder of 2011 and beyond.
We are initiating third quarter 2011 adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations guidance of $0.66 to $0.71.
We are increasing our full year adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations guidance from the prior range of $2.65 to $2.75 to a new range of $2.75 to $2.82.
The new full year range includes approximately $0.05 of accretion related to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal comments.
We're now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll first hear from Steven Winoker of Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> So glad to see Beckman Coulter finally in the fold.
And I want to actually though lead off with a couple of questions on just the overall impact that you're seeing on the macro basis from the China deceleration and other emerging market concerns overall across the business.
I know you mentioned you were up 20% but are you seeing any signs of weakness at all? Well I think you see signs of weakness all the time Steve but having been with the China and India teams earlier this week albeit telephonically I would characterize the general tone and outlook is quite buoyant and we clearly are working to get some very tough comps.
I mean we've seen some signs in China for example of a slow start in a couple of businesses water being one on account of the timing around the 5-year plan maybe a bit more so than the tightening.
I think some of our businesses are on the outlook for signs of credit tightening where they deal with that smaller customers.
But by and large I think their mood was quite upbeat with respect to second half.
India is obviously dealing with a couple of different issues.
But I'd say by and large we expect a little of the froth to come off but still think as we look at the third quarter and certainly the second half the emerging markets will lead the way.
Inc.</strong> Okay all right.
Well it's always hard to reconcile that with some of the deceleration in the government's action in interest rate.
But okay that's good to hear.
Just on the growth within Environmental that the negative 0.5% I mean obviously that's all -- it looks from Gilbarco Veeder-Root.
Are you expecting that to turnaround or what should we expect going forward there? Yes.
Steve I think that that's exactly right just to make sure we're all in the same page.
We certainly saw Gilbarco play out in the first half very much as we would have anticipated in large part because of the tough comps on the payment schemes here in the first half.
That obviously gets easier for us as the year goes on and we would expect them to be more of a contributor here as we go forward.
As we talk about your conference not that long ago obviously we've also seen a little bit of pressure in the muni world at Hach Lange and to a lesser degree Trojan.
So we're watching that carefully.
But as we look at the third quarter I think that when we talk about the guidance for the quarter I think the Environmental segment won't be leading the way here.
And we talk about our growth guidance for the quarter or for the second half being in that 6% to 8% range as we've talked I suspect Environmental will probably be south of that midpoint but specifically I think on the GVR we'll begin to improve from here.
Inc.</strong> And are you expecting additional acquisition-related transaction costs from Beckman or are we finished in the numbers you took this quarter? Steve we will have about $0.14 or $0.15 a share in the second half primarily related to inventory step-up and deferred revenues.
So of that $0.15 that we'll call out in the second half probably 85% 90% of that will be noncash in nature.
There will be a little bit of cash cost to take out the Beckman bonds here in the third quarter and we expect to be done with all that by the end of the year.
Next we'll hear from Deane Dray of Citi Investment Research.
It sounds like we're getting closer to the time to revenue on this ballast water opportunity and it does sound like it could be a big deal for an extended period and I've seen much higher estimates for that $1 billion.
I know that's the addressable market but -- for Danaher but if you just take us through what you think the gating factors are.
From my understanding it's the coast -- U.S.
Coast Guard has to ratify it.
That's considered to be the more stringent standards.
And then from a technology standpoint it sounds like Trojan has to partner with someone and just give us a sense of where you are in terms of what product will be assembled and available for -- on these ships? Sure.
Well I think the -- from a regulatory point of view this is a global initiative.
It's not a U.S.
effort as I know you know Deane and I think that our read of the political landscape and I don't think we necessarily have a unique perspective here is that the global agreement will come into force here this year as the folks that aren't yet on board are indeed that signed up.
I think that will really trigger this market in earnest.
In anticipation of that as you've indicated we have been investing heavily at Trojan to really take their disinfection technologies which they deploy in a whole host of if you will land-based applications primarily it's waste and drinking water treatment facilities but also in industrial and commercial applications to these cargo ships to basically help them disinfect the water used as ballast before it's dumped at port.
That I think is a product capability that we have.
We can by and large do that ourselves but obviously we don't really have a shipboard capability.
So we're partnering there Deane really from a sales and service perspective to make sure that the technology and the packaging we have is well deployed and obviously a very new vertical for us.
So as I indicated in the prepared remarks we're in the process of a rigorous test protocol for this disinfection equipment that occurs both on land and in situ on board ships.
The order book is beginning to percolate here.
I really don't think this is a needle mover for us with respect to revenue in 2011 but I suspect by the time you see more let's say at year end we'll be talking about 2012 revenue and we're going to stick to that $1 billion band.
That's a big number.
And it's still very early in this regard but again obviously flagging it here we're very optimistic about this being a meaningful growth driver for Trojan and for the Environmental segment going forward.
Great.
And just as a follow-up and also still in the water sector you called out some softness in the municipal side and I know this was something discussed last quarter.
We're not surprised to see it but is the nature of the softness? I would trust it's not on the consumable side.
Is it more new project-related delays and push-outs? Yes.
I think that's a fair read particularly in the developed markets.
I think that China has obviously been a big growth driver for us.
I think the team's prediction that the new 5-year plan would cause projects to be a little unclear with respect to timing in 2011 has played out.
But I think China gets better for us as we move forward all things being equal and who knows what's going to happen with respect to some of these municipalities given some of the political headlines of late but still good growth.
It's all relative here.
A little bit of the top has come off at Hach Lange in the wake of these pressures but they're still performing very well and we think they will in the second half of this year.
Next we'll hear from Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
Could you just maybe talk about the trends at Tektronix the revenue there was a bit light relative to what I was expecting.
Can you maybe talk about what's going in the order flow there for the quarter? Sure Steve.
I think what we saw at TEK was a strong finish following a light start to the quarter.
I think we were pleased to see as we indicated in our prepared remarks orders north of shipments at a double-digit rate very encouraged by that.
I think as we saw that build through the quarter and even here early in July TEK would appear to be in good shape and obviously some of the technology end markets that we serve are showing some signs of softness.
So we're watching that carefully but I think given the book-to-bill dynamic there given the sequential progress through the quarter and frankly the new product introductions that we commented on that are coming to market here in the second half we feel very good about where TEK is right now.
And Steve I would add to that that dynamic of orders being better than shipments was also true at Fluke and at TEK Communications as well.
We had a very good order book across Test &amp; Measurement in the second quarter.
So what was the book-to-bill at T&amp;M? It was -- order -- the shipment growth in Test &amp; Measurement was 10%.
Our order growth was mid-teens.
That's going to be 1.04 1.05 or something I guess.
Okay.
Maybe just a high-level question are you guys at all thinking about contingencies? I mean I know Danaher always has some sort of hedge and restructuring in there but I mean have your antenna picked up anything in the last couple of months that kind of changes the behavior of telling your managers to maybe put a little bit more of contingency in place? How are you looking at that? Well I think it's a balance right now Steve because again we had a very strong core growth quarter in the second.
I think our outlook for the second half is still quite positive.
So we don't want to head for the bunkers prematurely.
That said I think we're always in a mode this time of year to make sure that we're taking a sober look to second half not only with respect to this year but also making sure that where the structural opportunities are that those are being identified so we can continue our quiet restructuring and we would anticipate doing that here in the second half.
I think you've heard us for a while now say that we're not seeing dramatic impact from the headlines in the businesses.
That's good but we're taking nothing for granted right now so we're watching things very carefully and the businesses now to not only watch as leading indicators but also to be ready in the event that a more dramatic storm comes ashore here.
And then one more question are you guys ready to do a -- do you think you have the capacity to do another I don't know $5 billion plus deal if something kind of comes along in the next couple of months? Another $5 billion deal the next couple of months? Yes.
I think we're on record of saying our second half deal envelope is probably in the $300 million range so that would suggest wrecking the balance sheet beyond recognition.
Steve I don't think we'll be going there any time.
Okay.
So the low end of that $5 billion range? Yes.
I think our appetites are doing a very large deal and having to issue a substantial portion of that deal with our equity.
It's a very very tough time.
Next question from Jon Wood of Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> So Larry can you just comment on Beckman the core outlook there following what you guys have seen from that business in the second quarter is a flat assumption for the year or the back half of the year for that matter still relevant? And then going to the accretion side for Dan is that deal going to be accretive in the third quarter? Jon I would say that we were pleased with the second quarter performance at Beckman.
If you kind of look at the last 2 quarters there they've been up low single up call it 2%.
Obviously not where we want to be but I think very much where we thought they would be.
And that's I think -- and then you saw second quarter we saw the second quarter in line pretty much with the last couple of quarters in that regard.
So I think we're comfortable with the state of affairs there.
You know that we've tried to keep expectations around revenue very modest here given that there are some other issues we need to work through but I think as we look at the second half of '11 as we look at 2012 right now we're right where we've been assuming a flattish revenue outlook ahead of the real impact that we're going to have on the top line by improving quality getting past some of the regulatory challenges making sure that we are aggressive from a competitive perspective in terms of how we get out and take care of our customers let alone what we want to do from a new product perspective over time.
So no real change but we much prefer being here today on the other side of closing because we're able just to operate differently and build the momentum we had albeit the planning momentum over the last 4 or 5 months.
Jon in terms of accretion in the back half our expectation is that all that nickel will come in the fourth quarter.
We anticipate pretty substantial quiet restructuring.
We don't plan to call it out in the third quarter.
We will have additional restructuring and realignment cost in the fourth quarter as well as into 2012.
That's all factored in there but we have a lot of actions we're going after as we speak.
There will be a big impact of that in Q3.
We think we can absorb that and have it be neutral to EPS.
It would be the right thing for the business to position it and then start to be accretive in the fourth quarter.
Inc.</strong> All right great.
That's very helpful.
And then my follow-up on the Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics core business obviously SCIEX continues to gain momentum here.
Larry can you just comment on your view qualitatively of that mid-teens number? How much of that do you think is a market share phenomenon and how much do you think is just the mass spec market if you will? Jon I think it's a tough line to draw here in the back of obviously a couple of quarters of very good growth.
I think we are encouraged by our performance with the 5600 from a new product perspective.
I think there are a number of geographies particularly North America where we're very pleased with the improved commercial execution of the organization.
But clearly as you know as well as anyone the market has been upbeat.
Pharma has been I think better in the first half of this year than anyone might have anticipated but I think that this business is doing well.
We'll see where some of the other folks come in here.
But I think in the first half of this year we probably took a little bit of share in certain corners.
I was up in Boston with the team yesterday.
I think they are feeling very good about the response today at ASMS around some of the add-ons the 5600 feeling very good about some prospects for the second half let alone the product the new product development pipeline.
So all in all it's still only 18 months in right with SCIEX but we really like where we are with this business.
And next we'll hear from John Inch of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
So just so I understand the guide you beat by $0.04 your midpoint this quarter you're raising by -- effectively the year by all of the Beckman contribution.
If there's no sort of spillover from whatever beat it in this second quarter to the rest of the year based on your positive commentary it kind of looks like you've got the third quarter flat right? So what sort of -- why isn't there a little bit more optimism from the second quarter reading through to the rest of the year? John I think the -- I think the headlines given what they are obviously have us tempering our thinking here but I think all in all as we look at the top line and the BCM here for the second half as well as the nickel from Beckman I think we feel very good about that guidance.
Certainly as we look at some of the things that we want to make sure we work through beyond the obvious whether it's the muni the muni headwinds that we talked about a moment ago.
Obviously Japan from a supply chain perspective was something we said we'd like to see through though I think the signs there are all positive and some other items there.
But I think all in all we feel very comfortable about where we are in the second half.
And John as you know we like to have some latitude in the second half to pull forward some cost actions we would typically budget.
We're in the process of budgeting for 2012.
I think if the top line continues you may see us some take some actions here that in otherwise would occur -- cost actions that would have otherwise occur in 2012.
Now that make sense.
I'm just trying to make sure there isn't some implied message of obvious slowing in some aspects of your business but it seems like that's not what you're suggesting at all? Yes.
Now again I think we're talking about 6% to 8% core for the second half and that should be from what we see today balanced between the third and the fourth.
Larry what do you think the risks are that Beckman next year possibly puts up organic growth that's negative? Is that -- like is the over or under kind of equally weighted if you're looking at sort of a flattish outlook? Or do you think the balance be over sort of tips to more positive versus negative? I think you've got a number of swing factors there John but I'd take a balanced view there given where we are which is why I think it would show [ph].
I would say we'd take a balance view as to the over/under on that that flattish outlook which...
So in other words if it's negative it's not going be negative by much is the point you're making? That would be our current view yes.
What's your outlook Larry still for the cost side as you've kind of gotten into Beckman? And how much of the -- is there any sort of the cost synergy baked into the $0.05 this year or just more that kick in next year? Well the cost synergy efforts really works against us this year as Dan highlighted because we're going to be putting some of that investment into the business ahead of pulling out that $0.25 billion dollars of cost that we've talked about.
I think John we are very confident given the planning that has been underway for many months now that we can safely reduce their cost structure by that amount and do that.
And when I say safely what I'm referring to and have that come out without impairing the business' ability to grow to improve quality to invest in innovation and the like.
So I'm highly confident that as we move forward we're going to find other opportunities.
I think for today we're going to stay with that $250 million cost out number.
Yes now that make sense.
And then just lastly can I ask you about industrial obviously you sort of saw how the quarter progressed from a macro perspective right? It looks like there had been a bit of pre-buying in March systematically and then -- I'm not talking about Danaher I'm talking about overall economy and then May was obviously a little softer and June seems to have been a bit better.
What happened within your industrial businesses not maybe specifically defined to Industrial Tech? But just as you look at sort of your industrial production related types of businesses what happened in the quarter and what's your outlook? I mean the 14.5% is obviously very strong.
So it suggest that there wasn't much of a trend but maybe what was going on under the surface? Yes.
No I think it was strong and certainly as we look at the third quarter I'd say that Industrial Tech the segment probably going to be on the high end of that 6% to 8% growth range though it certainly be above the midpoint.
I think your question is -- I think properly framed if we just look the industrial landscape but not limited to our Industrial Tech businesses I think what we saw whether it's the Thomson where we sell through distribution be it the Fluke industrial business Our POS was by and large pretty good and I think the distribution by and large was fairly upbeat.
And I think as the quarter wore on things were stable things were solid.
Where we did see I think a little bit of softness John was more of the OEM side of the business and that's another one of these second half areas that we're going to have to watch.
Certainly at Kollmorgen we saw that and that was primarily in our technology end market.
So no surprise there but obviously something that we want to watch given the supply chains and the build rate risk factors that we would have in our limited OEM facing business.
Right.
But did that sort of -- was that trend throughout the quarter or did it kind of see a blip in May and get some sort of bounce back in June? I mean it sounds trite but it is sort of -- people are very concerned about kind of monthly progression here that's all.
Yes.
No and nobody more than me and Dan here so we understand the question.
I would say that it was a bit -- it was kind of -- it was bumpy as we went through May and June.
So it's really hard to discern an exact trend and we certainly didn't see a dramatic falloff in our leading indicators but we did see a softening order but maybe a little softer than we would have anticipated.
So again that's why we want to make sure we're on our toes here come the second half.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura Securities.
So Larry on the FDA issues just kind of troponin and sodium and glucose things like that how are you feeling about them in terms of an update and what you're thinking for the second half? Well I think that from a regulatory perspective Shannon we feel very good about the progress the business is making.
Obviously troponin is probably the single assay under question that gets the most attention.
Certainly plenty of work ahead of us in that regard so no news this morning in that regard.
But again I would just remind maybe the broader group that the regulatory challenge at Beckman Coulter is not strictly one born of 3 specific assays where they've had issues historically.
It also incorporates a broader quality system effort that has been I think well documented and that's going to be a -- that is a significant undertaking.
We're pleased with the progress that the company has made.
We've had obviously a lot of visibility not only on the plans but the progress that we're knee-deep in that with them now.
That's our #1 priority here in the short term.
Obviously it will be in the long-term as well.
But I'm very encouraged by the trajectory that the Beckman team is on in that regard.
But again a lot of work to do.
I think more broadly the integration planning has gone exceptionally well Shannon.
The transition team is probably on a full-time equivalent basis almost 25 people strong from a Danaher view in terms of our folks spending virtually all their time at Beckman.
We have made some organizational changes there.
We have begun to exit the public company structure and in turn the publicly cost that go with that.
We have split the business formally into 2 halves a Diagnostics and a Life Sciences business to provide appropriate focus around each of those businesses.
We've made a few changes as a result of those 2 moves which have included the insertion of a Danaher CFO as well as one of our group execs as the in essence the Chief Transition Officer for the business.
Tom Joyce continues to oversee all of this.
Bob Hurley the Beckman CEO is a full partner in that effort with Tom and we're feeling very good about the outlook.
Again a lot of long days and weeks ahead to be sure.
Yes good luck with that.
On dental what do you think about the margins there? I guess as you look into the rest of the year into '12.
And what's happening there from either a mix or cost standpoint as we look from this kind of 2Q run rate? Right.
Well there -- they need to be much higher.
Let's make no mistake about that.
I think what you saw in the second quarter Shannon was really a function of a couple of things.
Certainly we had a -- this plant that we're taking out has impacted margins as we would have anticipated call that quiet restructuring.
We certainly have stepped up the growth spending there largely around the second half ramp for the new imaging products that I referenced as well as in light of the traction we have the emerging markets with the collaboration between KaVo and Sybron long overdue and now well underway.
And I think the third issue there was really some of the negative mix we had in certain product categories that certainly didn't help.
The team understands that they ought to be a 15-plus percent OP business.
They have a roadmap that they are executing in that regard and we would anticipate that nothing less from that business.
And we'd expected a meaningful sequential improvement of those operating margins Q2 to Q3 here.
As we saw in the second quarter right because they were up 100 basis points sequentially from the first.
Okay but getting to the 15% -- getting to the 15% plus is that going to take a little more time into next year or...
That won't happen this year Shannon.
Sorry if I suggested that.
No you didn't.
I just concluded it.
I just want to make sure I was hearing it right.
No I think the path to 15% plus at dental is a multi-year effort obviously more of the work resides at KaVo than it does at Sybron but that progress continues and they need to deliver more of it obviously given where they are versus that target.
But we're confident we'll do that.
[Operator Instructions] Next we'll hear from Jeffrey Sprague of Vertical Research.
Can we just spend a little more time on understanding kind of how the FDA issues play out for you? And one element of my question is obviously there's substantial costs involved with kind of making this right and getting on the right track with the FDA.
Is that cost push that's required fully already embedded in kind of Beckman's cost base or is there another kind of step up that needs to happen now as you guys take the reins to really make sure this gets fixed? Jeff I would say that the effort that has been underway is a considerable one here for the better part of the year.
As a result you're certainly seeing an increase spend in RA/QA type activities across the company but I don't think that we see a dramatic step up from here relative to what they need to do.
It really is more just executing on the plan that has been laid out that has been staffed that has been funded over a multi-year period to make sure that we are as good as any company with respect to fulfilling our regulatory obligations not only to regulators but obviously in turn to our customers.
And I assume there's some significant outside help and expertise involved in doing this currently? That's exactly right Jeff.
And Larry can you give us a sense then and perhaps its embedded in the 250 but once this is set right so to speak I mean the effort never ends but once we're kind of past the fire drill what kind of costs come back out on kind of the FDA correction? Jeff our planning assumption is that cost does not come out.
Maybe it does but our -- that 250 savings is not -- none of that includes the benefit of reducing their quality costs.
Maybe that's conservative but I think it's a good planning assumption.
Right but in actuality there is some meaningful nut there that likely comes out? Jeff I don't think that's what we're saying.
I think what we're saying is we've assumed a level of spend there that takes a number of different forms that we think is important.
And while a lot of that activity maybe in what you might think of is remediation mode that will transition into maintenance mode as we move forward.
So again I think we see tremendous cost reductions at Beckman.
We see strong margin expansion potential.
But first things first quality and RA/QA top that list.
So we're not assuming any reductions there.
Is there anything that we should be looking at kind of from the outside looking in to gauge how this is going or should we kind of expect it just kind of comes in your regular quarterly updates of kind of the acquisition integration and the like? Yes.
We were -- we would anticipate Jeff I think using these calls to give you as much of an update as we can as we move forward.
It will be hard to report the Danaher quarter from here on out without a significant amount of time on Beckman but we'll also obviously be talking about Beckman at different conferences and the like as part of our normal IR rounds.
Right.
And just one unrelated follow-up.
Product ID orders can you give us a little color there and how that's looking into the back half? I would -- as we think about the back half here again with the 6% to 8% range for core I think we would anticipate that industrial will be above that with Product ID playing a significant role albeit without the new acquisition Esko being in that calculation.
They're off to an outstanding start by the way.
So we would -- we have a strong outlook here in the second half with the ID.
I mean Jeff they have a lot of momentum.
I mean they did have a very very strong second half last year.
So from a reported basis their core numbers probably aren't going to be quite as high as they were in the first half but that doesn't really -- sequentially there's just -- so a lot of strength in the business right now.
Mark Douglass of Longbow Research.
What was -- currency had a bigger impact on the top line versus expectations and probably what you were guiding.
And what are you expecting for the rest of the year? And what was the impact on EPS or net income in the quarter? Mark I don't think we figured it in our guidance.
When we issued earnings in the third week of April the euro was 1.45 and that actually averaged a little bit less than that for the balance of the quarter.
So it wasn't a surprise to us given where the euro was when we announced earnings and gave guidance in April.
It obviously was a benefit of about 5%.
I think it will be slightly less a couple of points here in -- maybe 3 to 4 points here in the back half assuming the euro stays kind of in the low 1.40s clearly there have been some volatility there but it's in that range.
Okay.
I guess I was thinking 2% for the year but likely a little more than that? Yes.
Okay.
And then just lastly on the Fluke Networks TEK Communications even TEK some things in comm at least for the equipment space service providers it seems to have gotten more negative more recently.
What is your outlook for the comm space right now going forward? Has it changed materially? Well I think what we saw in the second quarter was very encouraging.
I again as I think Dan indicated across T&amp;M and certainly in the comps group positive book-to-bill good strength.
Some of the comps that are out there that you maybe referring to aren't necessarily the best comps.
We don't have a lot of exposure in certain verticals typically around financial services and with the government the federal government here in the U.S.
that some other folks do.
Our exposure tends to be more with the carriers certainly on the mobile side where we're seeing very strong growth at TEK Comm and much of that net is really an enterprise play where we've seen with our portfolio very good performance and that coupled with a good emerging market exposure is why I think those businesses have fared very well relative to some other companies that maybe comps but really aren't competitors.
And next we'll hear from Richard Eastman of Robert W.
Baird.
Larry can you speak to maybe just a minute or 2 you talked a little bit about industrial maybe orders were a little bit bumpy during the quarter.
But if you look at kind of order trends and maybe tone of business in Europe specifically across maybe IT and then also the Test &amp; Measurement business any discernible slowdown or change in inflection in the tone of business in Europe during the quarter? I think the short answer is yes.
Certainly as we look at the geographies emerging markets led the developed markets and the U.S.
was ahead of Europe so it was really the first time we saw that differentiated performance out of Europe.
I would say it was by and large broad-based and certainly didn't necessarily get better as the quarter wore on and the hanks and the like from the headlines grew.
Rick I would add that the business in Europe that probably held up the best in the second quarter was Test &amp; Measurement.
But we did as Larry alluded to we did see some weakness in the other industrial businesses a little bit in Med Tech as well in Europe.
Okay.
And so if we think geographically and we're thinking about this core 6% to 8% obviously emerging above that U.S.
maybe towards the 6 number and Europe stays positive in low singles I mean if we try to split this geographically.
I think that's about how it played out in the second quarter and it's probably not a bad sort of rough planning assumption.
Okay.
And then just general question when I look at the T&amp;M piece of the business and also the Industrial Tech piece of the business given the very significant core growth rates that we saw in both businesses I was a little bit curious the incremental margin in both businesses was kind of in a 27% range maybe a little bit below 30%.
Is there a concerted effort there maybe to kick up any quiet restructuring or should that incremental have been a little bit bigger on that type of core growth? Rick there's a little bit of noise in both of those incrementals because of both the Keithley acquisition and one-time charges there and the recent Esko acquisition in Industrial Tech.
If you look across Danaher you don't have quite this visibility but if you strip out acquisitions and also currency our fall through across the businesses were close to the 40%.
That was true in Test &amp; Measurement.
Now Industrial Tech was a little bit low because of Motion.
We are seeing some significant inflation in areas like magnets and the rare earth issue in China where some of the magnets we're buying are literally 10x the price we paid at the beginning of the year.
Now they're getting a fair amount of price they're still doing well their margins are consistent with where they were in the first quarter but we're not seeing the kind of seasonal improvement we see in -- more typically see in margins.
And that's really in Motion that's not the other pieces it's not Product ID but that's one area where inflation is hitting us very hard.
Okay.
And so the core fall through for all of Danaher or for those 2 pieces was closer to 40%? All Danaher was closer to 40%.
Test &amp; Measurement was right in there.
Industrial Tech was lower because of the dynamic I just talked about with Motion.
And ladies and gentlemen due to time constraints our final question for today will come from Jason Feldman of UBS.
So at AB SCIEX the TripleTOF has been very successful and by all accounts it gained a fair amount of share.
At ASMS there were a couple of new product introductions from some of your competitors.
Do you still see runway from a market share perspective? Or is it time to think about the next generation of products at some point in the not-too-distant future? Jason I think we see a lot of runway.
We have not yet been shipping the 5600 for 4 quarters yet.
So that coupled with all the KOL support and we feel good about that but it's always time to think about the next-generation products.
And again I was up with the team.
We did an R&amp;D review yesterday.
There's always -- this is always the part of a new acquisition integration that takes longer to affect but I think we're very encouraged about what you'll see AB SCIEX rollout over the next several years by themselves and obviously over time you're going to see some of those synergies I referred to at the outset come into play there as well.
So we're thrilled about what they've done here in the first half and just have a very upbeat outlook as we think about that business going forward.
Okay.
And lastly on Beckman I think you've been very clear from the very beginning about how that will be initially dilutive to your overall organic growth rates and I understand that the immediate concern is the cost synergies and the integration and to focus on those issues.
How long does it take do you think before you're really able to get focused to working on structurally improving their underlying core growth rate whether it's sales synergies with other businesses or improved innovation? Is that a 2013 kind of phenomena or some other point? Jason our efforts thus far both in planning and here in the last couple of weeks with respect to execution had been focused again first and foremost on quality and I'd say second on growth.
So we're already spending a lot of time in a whole host of ways trying to help the top line both in the near term and the long term.
So I think what we've tried to suggest is that despite that activity given the context of flattish revenue outlook is probably the sober frame for the rest of this year and through next year.
I think our hope and intent is that come 2013 and beyond you'll begin to see the impact of Danaher and DBS on Beckman's core growth.
I think the nature of the work is just more straightforward as Dan highlighted.
You'll see that impact with respect to cost out far sooner but that pairing that timing of those activities is I think by and large typical and certainly appropriate for this situation.
And Mr.
McGrew at this time I'll turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing comments.
Thanks everyone.
Dan and I are going to be around all day for follow-ups.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Dave and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call our third quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all provided in the Investors section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information and will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investors section of the website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until October 27 2011.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
(719) 457-0820 internationally and the confirmation code is 4721216.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the accompanying slide presentation our earnings release our third quarter 10-Q and other related presentation materials supplementing today's call for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
All references in these remarks in the company's presentations to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's businesses unless otherwise noted.
I'd also like to note that we will be making some statements during the call that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
It is possible that actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
We are pleased to report an outstanding third quarter result for Danaher.
The quarter largely played out in line with expectations the expectations we shared with you both in July and when we were together with many of your in early September.
Our core growth in the third quarter was 7.5%.
While we are cognizant of the macro concerns we continue to feel good about where we are today.
The Danaher business system continues to be a competitive advantage helping our businesses capture market share through innovation new product introductions and go-to-market initiatives.
We had a number of exciting new product introductions in the quarter most notably at Tektronix where we launched 2 game-changing oscilloscopes which I'll talk about more later.
From a geographic perspective what we've seen thus far is again very much in line with what we saw in the second quarter: The emerging markets leading the way followed by the developed markets.
While China remains healthy third quarter revenue grew at a slower rate than what we saw in the first half.
Those of you who did join us last month in Chicago saw our numerous examples of how we're building our premier global enterprise by investing in go-to-market initiatives in country leadership and localization of products in the emerging markets.
Sales from the emerging markets grew at a low double-digit rate in the third quarter and this was the first quarter in which we surpassed $1 billion in total revenue.
Sales from the developed markets grew at a mid-single-digit rate in the quarter with the U.S.
doing better than Europe.
During the quarter we delivered strong operational performance with our core operating margin improving 130 basis points year-over-year and 4 of our 5 segments delivering over 100 basis points of core margin improvement all the while continuing to invest in growth opportunities.
We were particularly pleased with the operating margin performance at Dental and Test &amp; Measurement as well as the better-than-expected operating margins at Beckman Coulter.
So with that as a backdrop let me move to the details of the quarter.
Today we reported third quarter adjusted diluted net earnings per share of $0.73 representing a record third quarter for Danaher and a 26% increase as compared to our adjusted EPS last year.
Revenues for the quarter increased 46% to a record $4.5 billion with core revenues up 7.5%.
The impact of currency translation increased revenues by 3.5% and acquisitions contributed 35%.
Our year-over-year gross margin for the third quarter decreased 330 basis points to 48.8% while our operating margin in the third quarter decreased 340 basis points year-over-year to 14.5%.
These decreases were primarily due to lower margins at Beckman Coulter and the impact of noncash acquisition-related costs related to Beckman Coulter partially offset by leverage from greater sales volumes and some early productivity improvements.
Our gross margin in the quarter excluding the impact of the noncash acquisition-related costs for Beckman was 50.9%.
DBS continues to drive outstanding cash flow performance.
Our operating cash flows from continuing operations for the first 9 months of 2011 were $1.9 billion a 28% increase compared to the same period last year.
Year-to-date free cash flow from continuing operations was over $1.6 billion.
And our free cash flow from the continuing operations to net income ratio was a healthy 120%.
During the quarter we reduced our debt by over $600 million and expect that free cash flow will exceed $2 billion in 2011 which would be a first again for Danaher.
During the quarter we completed the acquisition of 2 smaller businesses with aggregate annual revenues of about $25 million to strengthen our Environmental and Test &amp; Measurement segments.
We remain optimistic about our ability to deploy capital in this environment and are encouraged by the opportunities in our acquisition funnels.
So turning to our 5 operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement revenues increased 23% for the quarter with core revenues up 12.5%.
T&amp;M's core operating margin for the third quarter increased 240 basis points.
Overall their operating margin increased 320 basis points to 24%.
Fluke core revenues grew low double digits in the quarter with solid demand in industrial automation and calibration end markets.
Emerging markets growth remained strong in the quarter up over 20%.
Fluke has been leading the DBS digital marketing effort.
That work was recently recognized by the Electrical Distributor Magazine as the best of the best in the digital marketing campaign category for the company's online promotion for its iFlex clamp meter.
This is a great example of DBS using the web to build brand awareness and preference to help drive growth.
At Tektronix core revenues were up mid-single digits led by demand for our oscilloscopes which saw greater than 20% growth in the quarter.
During the quarter we launched 2 significant new products the MBO4000 is the world's first mixed domain oscilloscope which delivers the functionality of both an oscilloscope and a spectrum analyzer in a single instrument.
The mixed domain allows engineers to see time-correlated analog digital and wireless signals at the same time deriving quantum gains in test productivity.
We also launched the 70000 D Series oscilloscope with an industry-leading combination of 33 gigahertz bandwidth and 100 gigasamples per second.
This groundbreaking new product provides the industry's highest level of measurement accuracy for today's fastest electrical signals across multiple channels.
Core revenues from our communications businesses grew over 20% led by healthy demand for our network management solutions in North America and our network security and analysis solutions globally.
The strong third quarter growth also benefited from some earlier-than-expected installations of new systems on customer networks which will in turn negatively impact fourth quarter results.
During the quarter Tektronix acquired Optametra a provider of fiber optical test systems used in telecommunications and applications.
Environmental segment revenues increased 8.5% in the quarter with core revenues increasing 4.5%.
The segment operating -- core operating margin was up 35 basis points in the quarter with overall operating margin increasing 50 basis points to  21.6%.
Water quality core revenues increased at a high single-digit rate.
At Hach Lange the demand continues to be healthy for our core lab instrumentation particularly in North America and Western Europe.
The North American and Western Europe municipal business grew at a solid mid- single-digit rate in the quarter.
However muni growth in China while positive continues to be at lower levels than in prior years and this is first year of China's 12th 5-year plan.
Trojan core revenues increased at a low teens rate in the quarter driven by growth in all major geographies.
Large municipal-based UV systems employing Trojan's new Solo Lamp technology will be delivered over the coming months to Vancouver Canada for a drinking water application and Melbourne Australia for a water reuse application.
Both of these municipalities selected Trojan's technology in part to take advantage of the sustainable features including reduced power consumption a smaller footprint and lower carbon generation than competitive products.
Since the introduction of the new Trojan Solo Lamp technology over $100 million of new opportunities from around the world have been quoted with market interest being particularly high in the North American wastewater market as plants consider replacing their existing chemical disinfection systems with Trojan's new product.
ChemTreat's core revenue grow at a low double-digit rate in the quarter their fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit core growth as they continue to aggressively invest in sales activities and grab market share throughout North America.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's third quarter core revenues increased slightly.
We continue to see healthy demand for dispensers in North America and Europe and double-digit growth at Veeder-Root offset by a difficult year-over-year comparison resulting from enhanced industry payment security standard in 2010.
During the quarter we expanded GVR's global footprint with the acquisition of Stratema a manufacturer and distributor of dispensers in São Paulo Brazil.
Stratema strengthens GVR's position in Brazil by providing them with manufacturing and service capabilities and localized products for the Brazilian market.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
Revenues for the quarter increased 180%.
As a reminder Beckman Coulter's operations are reported in this segment and contributed to overall revenue growth but are not yet considered core.
Core revenues were up 6% in the segment for the quarter.
Our core operating margin was up 120 basis points in the third quarter.
Overall our operating margin decreased 900 basis points from the prior year to 3.3% as a result of lower operating margins at Beckman Coulter due partially to restructuring and integration activities as well as noncash charges related to fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue.
We expect these adjustments will be completed in the fourth quarter of this year.
Radiometer's core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate for the quarter driven by continued success for our ABL90 and ABL80 blood gas analyzers and consumables across all major geographies with particular strength in China.
The rollout of AQT continues to go well with year-to-date revenues doubling the prior year.
At Leica Biosystems core revenues increased at a high single-digit rate in the quarter.
We saw strength across all major geographies which was led by demand for our advanced staining instruments and consumables which grew in excess of 20% in the quarter.
Leica Microsystems' core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate in the quarter in most major geographies driven by continued strong sales of confocal microscopes used for research applications.
Core revenues at AB SCIEX grew at a low double-digit rate in the quarter driven by continued momentum from our TripleTOF 5600 and from the new products launched at ASMS including new food testing and clinical research solutions.
Demand was broad based with academic applied and research markets all growing in excess of 10%.
We've now owned Beckman Coulter for just over 3 months and have completed our first full quarter of integration.
As we have mentioned before there's still a lot of work ahead of us but we are genuinely excited about where the business is today.
The leadership team is fully engaged in driving improvements on all fronts including sustainable quality improvements.
We remain very comfortable with both the financial and strategic opportunities inherent at Beckman Coulter.
Turning to Dental.
Segment revenues increased 11% in the quarter with core revenues up 4.5%.
Our core operating margin was up 200 basis points in the third quarter.
Overall our operating margin was up 160 basis points from the prior year to 14.5%.
KaVo core revenues increased in a mid-single-digit rate in the quarter with solid demand for instruments in North America and Europe.
Customer feedback on our recently introduced 3-in-1 digital imaging system for TD Panametrics [ph] Supplametrix [ph] and 3D imaging continues to be very positive.
In addition to the solid organic growth core operating margins were up meaningfully both in year-over-year and sequentially and we continue to execute on the structuring activities and invest in go-to-market programs.
Sybron core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate in the quarter led by sales of our Damon Clear orthodontic solutions infection prevention products and general dentistry consumables across all major geographies.
Moving to Industrial Technologies.
Revenues increased 21.5% for the quarter with core revenues up 9.5%.
Our core operating margin increased 130 basis points in the third quarter.
Overall our operating margin was 21.6% a 40 basis point increase compared to the same period last year.
Product identification core revenues were up high single digits in the quarter with broad-based growth across most major product categories and geographies.
During the quarter Linx launched the CJ400 a self-service portable continuous inkjet printer designed for easy movement across multiple production lines.
Customer response for this new product at PACK EXPO in Las Vegas earlier this month was extremely positive.
While it's still early we've been very pleased with the customer and associate feedback we have perceived to date at EskoArtwork.
Our initial operating and strategic reviews have been very positive and we look forward to sharing future successes with you in the coming months.
In motion core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate.
The momentum we experienced in the first half of the year has slowed particularly in the industrial automation technology and solar markets.
However demand for Kollmorgen's engineering solutions and Thomson's linear and mechanical products remains healthy.
So to wrap up Danaher clearly had a very good third quarter.
We're excited to have Beckman on board and the integration remains very much on track.
We were particularly pleased with our team's execution across the Danaher portfolio.
We're certainly mindful of the environment that's likely to get more challenging as we go forward.
Given our strong performance to date we're in a position and believe it prudent to accelerate further our structural cost reductions during the fourth quarter.
As a result we anticipate increasing of our previously announced fourth quarter quiet restructuring efforts from $50 million to approximately $100 million.
This excludes the ongoing restructuring efforts at Beckman.
Our focus on gaining market share while also accelerating cost actions in a slowing macro environment coupled with a potential more attractive acquisition marketplace positions us well for the balance of 2011 and beyond.
We are increasing our full year adjusted diluted EPS guidance from continuing operations from a previous range of $2.75 to $2.82 to a new range of $2.79 to $2.84 which includes both the $100 million of fourth quarter restructuring as well as the ongoing Beckman restructuring efforts.
Our fourth quarter 2011 adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations guidance is now $0.75 to $0.80.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal comments.
Dave we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> What's the core growth for the fourth quarter? Steve I think the guidance that we just shared you would assume mid-single-digit core growth call it 4% 5%.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then obviously you're upping the restructuring.
I think one of your higher-quality competitors in Europe also talking about incremental restructuring today.
Do you worry that you're pulling the trigger here too soon given what we're seeing out there? Obviously there's a lot of macro crosscurrents but the micro for most seems to be somewhat holding in.
How convinced are you that you kind of need to do this in the fourth quarter? And then kind of how does this -- if you're growing 4% to 6% in the fourth quarter how does this kind of play out into kind of early next year? Are there comp issues where that accelerates or is that kind of a good way to think about the ongoing kind of is that more of trend line rate in the medium term? Well I think we'll speak to the top line outlook for 2012 when we get everybody together in December.
We've just literally kicked off our budgeting process having wrapped up our annual strategic reviews with the businesses.
Steve I would say that first off we come to the fourth quarter restructuring with a view that it's always time to take out costs that you don't need.
I think we're pleased with the performance thus far.
I think -- and the momentum we have going in the fourth quarter that gives us the opportunity and ability to go after the programs inherent in the $100 million of spend.
So that's going to be split roughly 50-50 between the U.S.
and Europe.
Dental's going to get a big chunk of that as well the Industrial businesses both at motion and PID as well as in T&amp;M.
So it's a broad-based effort both by business and by geography I think very characteristic of the way we always operate.
Clearly we're seeing some moderation in the economy.
We all read the headlines.
It certainly is prudent at any time in the cycle.
But I think our view is particularly so right now given the uncertainties around 2012 better to be prepared and ready for what may come than to postpone what we think is a very prudent action here.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more question.
In September where did you see -- if you did see deceleration which sounds like a little bit towards the end of the quarter maybe a little bit of deceleration what was kind of the -- what was the worst business from a deceleration perspective? And did you have any businesses that were negative? Steve I would say that if you look at the third quarter I think what we were particularly pleased with is that it was steady pretty much start to finish in that regard.
We didn't see a dramatic tail off in September in the -- with all the headlines out there and whatnot.
Clearly we had some businesses that had I think just gangbuster quarters.
AB SCIEX being one ChemTreat another looks like PID did well here again.
But clearly I think what we saw in the businesses works [ph] pretty well with what others are saying.
You mentioned one competitor in Europe here this morning I think the last several weeks in the papers relative to China still growing nicely but at a slower rate.
We clearly saw certain of our technology end markets that we serve both at motion and Tektronix soften up a bit.
And I'd say in the industrial world particularly with some of our OEM exposure at Kollmorgen softened up.
Now there's some overlap there between both China frankly and some of the end markets but those are probably the 3 pools with some overlap where we saw slowing through the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And that's mostly tech not industrial automation right? Well when we say technology end markets we'll feel some of that at Tektronix and we'll feel some of that particularly at Kollmorgen where we serve those end markets from the OEM side not the test bench side as we do at Tektronix.
And next we'll go to Scott Davis with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> You've had 3 months of time to dig into what's going on at Beckman.
I mean where is your view now versus where it was 3 months ago? I mean is the opportunity bigger is it less is it the same? I mean is there any kind of change in what you think you can get out of it? Scott I would say that 3 months in here we've been pleased by the absence of surprises on both sides of the ledger.
I'd say at 90 days in we're very pleased with the performance of the business.
I think the integration has gone very well.
And we're really having I think significant impact on the way we run the business.
You look at just the third quarter performance top line very much in line with expectations so no surprise there.
Margins came in a little bit better than we expected.
They were up about 100 basis points sequentially.
Some of that is the faster traction I think we've gotten on the headcount reductions.
A little bit more disciplined on the G&amp;A spend.
And on the cash flow side we said we'd get after working cap and CapEx.
That's happening so good early results in that regard.
I think with respect to the integration that is going well.
We had an excellent reception there throughout the organization and they are rapidly adopting DBS.
I think we've kind of split the company largely into 3 discrete businesses: The diagnostics business being one the molecular effort being a second and the life science area being a third.
The public company costs are out now.
Tom Joyce one of EVPs has got overall leadership and partnership with Bob Hurley there so that is setup I think just as we had intended.
From a talent perspective there's a lot of good talent there.
We knew that to be true and they're showing us their capability.
We put in now 10 full-time Danaher folks in senior roles including the CFO spot the head of operations the head of service and as well as the head of marketing in addition to a chief transition officer.
We've actually been pleased with the response we've gotten inside the industry.
We're getting a lot of inbound inquiries about folks wanting to join the team and we're pleased to recently announce a new head of U.S.
sales who is an outstanding industry veteran.
DBS team fully deployed there with probably about 25 full-time equivalents working with the Beckman team to get DBS laid in.
In terms of the way the business is changing its day-to-day cadence and rhythm I think if you look quality you look at growth you look at costs again real good progress here.
I mean obviously quality is job one.
We're being very aggressive in this regard.
A lot of work to do and I think you see some of the early signs perhaps primarily where we're getting after some of the customer-facing issues.
We got the sodium issue behind us now that's closed out.
I think we're progressing well with glucose and troponin.
Obviously we've gone public now with a new submission timetable for the troponin assay looking at our first quarter 2012 filing.
Feel like that's a prudent -- it's a marked timetable that we'll deliver on.
Lots of work internally on quality.
But as we continue to look at that work plan in the wake of a warning letter that we got out at Brea I think we feel like we're working on the right things and making progress.
Clearly from a growth perspective getting sodium behind us helps.
Getting a 510(k) approval for lactate I think helps demonstrate to customers that we're making good headway here.
You look at retention rates they've been steady the last couple of quarters.
We are winning in competitive situations as well.
So I think that while we've got clearly some headwinds in front of us relative to the top line this year and next there's no reason to think this isn't a mid-single-digit grower at least for us and that's before the molecular contributions kick in.
And on the cost side as you I'm sure pick up in the margins we're more than 3 quarters of the way through the 1 000-person headcount reduction that we had laid out early on.
That's helping us in a whole host of ways beyond just the P&amp;L.
And again continue to feel very very comfortable about our ability to take at least $0.25 billion out of the overall cost structure.
So again lots to do.
Sorry to run on here a bit but I think we're excited about the opportunity and we'd make the same decision given the opportunity today.
Research Division</strong> Sounds complicated.
But anyways the restructuring the $100 million that you're going to spend now I mean how much of that is Beckman related and kind of a pull forward of you know what you need to take out in costs and now you're able -- business conditions are good enough that you can kind of afford to do it? I mean how much of that is Beckman versus just general Danaher? Yes Scott the $100 million is all outside of Beckman.
So in Q3 we spent about $50 million of restructuring on Beckman.
We'll probably spend another $25 million maybe north of $25 million on Beckman here in Q4.
So our total restructuring will be probably north of $125 million in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So where is the restructuring at? Is it SCIEX? Is it TEK? I mean where is the delta I guess the $50 million to $100 million? The $100 million is in all 5 segments.
The 3 segments that are probably getting the biggest share of that would be Industrial Test &amp; Measurement and Dental.
But they're all getting pretty healthy chunks of restructuring here.
Our next question will come from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Did you -- could you maybe just parse out the 7.5% organic between major territories: North America Europe and maybe emerging markets? Sure Nigel.
It played out pretty similar to Q2.
Emerging markets grew low double digit.
As you mentioned China which was growing 20% the first half of the year with kind of low teens in Q3.
We actually saw faster growth in Brazil than we had -- in Latin America than we had seen in the first half.
So overall quite comparable to Q2.
The U.S.
was right about 5%.
And Western Europe was about 2% 2.5% again pretty consistent with what we saw in Q2.
Okay and then I guess I'll just follow on this.
The 4% to 5% you -- that Larry threw out at 4Q I mean how does that look by geography? I'd say for all the regions slightly less.
We think we'll see a similar distribution between emerging markets being the strongest the U.S.
in the middle and Europe the weakest.
Though we're not looking for a particular outlier from those 3 at this point.
Okay and then again just looking at 4Q we saw some weakness -- some weakening coming through in motion and a little bit within Test &amp; Measurement the rest of technology verticals.
But in 4Q do you expect any of your businesses to go negative maybe motion or perhaps KaVo? No no.
I think on the contrary Nigel I think if you look at mid-single digit 4% to 5% fourth quarter I think we're going to have 4 of the 5 segments very much in that zone.
I think what we would expect is as I think Dan just alluded to Environmental Dental and Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics to be fairly steady.
We are seeing a little bit of pressure in motion and in Industrial but I think all 4 of those are going to be in the zone.
T&amp;M's probably the outlier.
They'll probably be in that low single-digit band largely because of the timing on some of that TEK Comms projects.
We are seeing again some slowing in the technology end markets and in China at Tektronix on the core instruments side of the business but to have T&amp;M as the outlier there is largely going to be a function of the timing at TEK Comms.
Elsewhere in distribution at Fluke for example they continue to do very well.
Okay that's really helpful.
And then just finally fantastic job on the delevering during the quarter.
Does that change at all your timeline for coming back into the M&amp;A market in any meaningful way? Well sure.
I mean clearly paying down over $600 million of debt in the quarter really puts us in a good position here.
We think we'd probably have a $4 billion to $5 billion envelope over the next couple of years.
As we've talk about we were a little discouraged by the industrial M&amp;A market and the prices being paid up to about May or June of this year.
I think we've been encouraged that you've seen very little industrial M&amp;A.
To me that's kind of a first sign that maybe things are getting better.
And I think we're going to be very well-positioned and we're gearing back up as we speak.
Okay and the $4 billion to $5 billion you're still looking at $2 billion for next year? Correct.
And next we have Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Larry so SCIEX again over double -- over 10% despite you lapping the 5600 launch.
Obviously a lot of consternation out there about the government research budgets.
Can you just kind of parse out what you see from an end-market perspective going forward in the SCIEX business? Sure.
Well keep in mind Jon we're lapping the launch.
We really began to ship that product in earnest in the fourth quarter of last year but -- in fact I was up in Toronto with the team yesterday and they've come a long way in really just a 1.5 years.
I think if we look at just Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics more broadly it's important to keep in mind that pro forma with Beckman that's about $6.5 billion segment for us right? About 25% of that is geared toward research applications.
And of that call it $1.6 billion just under $1 billion is probably what we would frame as kind of classic academic research government-funded sort of activity.
I think if you look at size as well as some of the other businesses be it Leica be it Beckman they're certainly seeing some pressure this year really as they try to comp the U.S.
stimulus from a year ago.
But I think by and large they are certainly reading all the negative outlooks that are out there but are of the view that you if go back to say '06 to '08 when at least in the U.S.
we saw flat funding we were able to grow at a double-digit rate really by focusing on where innovation was occurring and in turn where money was being spent.
So I think if you look at some of the correlation studies in microscopy obviously stem cell ultra high solution for Leica for example there are just a number of different ways in which the businesses I think are positioned to not be wholly dependent on the top line budget trends.
And you have some dynamics -- we were talking with the SCIEX team yesterday for example about what's happening in Germany.
Obviously a lot still to be sorted out but you have some countries that are decidedly taking a pro-investment stance particularly with respect to scientific research and innovation.
Well-positioned in those countries well-positioned around those applications.
So I think all in that hopefully frames the exposure that we have but also provides a little bit of color as to why we're going in with I think optimism to whatever the funding environment may be in '12 and '13 in Life Sciences.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Great.
One last one if you look within T&amp;M you talked about the low single digits in the fourth quarter being largely a result of the comms side.
What do you expect from kind of the core Fluke and core Tektronix businesses in the fourth quarter? I think Fluke we're looking kind of a mid-single-digit growth rate.
TEK could be a low single-digit growth rate but would expect the book to bill still be north of 1.
And next we'll go to John Inch with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> China didn't really sound like there was a lot of change.
Is there anyway Larry or Dan to provide a little more color? Are you seeing sort of changes in terms of intentions in the part of customers? Is there a regional difference say between the west versus the coast or are you just being somewhat cautious ahead of what's obviously an attempt by the government there to slow things down because of inflation? John I think that we certainly grew at a lower rate in the third quarter than we did the first half.
So I think we certainly saw the government's actions or whatever else is happening there.
I think for us that was principally in some of the technology end markets that we serve many of which that have obviously migrated heavily to China the last several years.
We also had -- and again we have that exposure at Tektronix and Kollmorgen principally.
I'd say we also saw some of the municipal pressure that we've talked about through the year.
They're just getting off to a very slow start in this regard relative to the 12th 5-year plan.
But in that regard we saw some frankly some encouraging signs.
We also have some exposure primarily at Kollmorgen to some of the clean tech efforts that the government has put in place and we saw those OEM customers slow considerably during the course of the quarter.
So still one of the best growth markets we've got.
We've got excellent competitive positions there but it is what it is.
And again I think that as you alluded to the government is trying to manage a number of different competing objectives there.
But I think long term we want to be there to see these leadership positions continue to grow and that's what we're going to do.
Research Division</strong> I guess where I'm going Larry you would expect China to slow not even just that the emerging markets meeting but before then.
I mean there is comparison issues and just natural trends as your base gets bigger.
Over the course of the quarter did it appear and may be based on your exit rates what you're looking at to date has it slowed a little bit beyond expectations or is it in line? That sort of was the context of what my question was.
No.
I think we're very much in line in that regard.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's where I was going okay.
I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> No no.
That's okay.
Beckman are you guys still thinking Beckman is up a little bit next year? Or is it still a little too early to tell in terms of the organic trajectory? John I don't think we're going to change our top line outlook for Beckman today.
We said that I think from the outset that this year and next would be challenging top line given the issues we were inheriting and that a flattish performance is what we're expecting.
And in turn you should expect.
So far we're in line with those expectations and really no reason to alter that course today.
Research Division</strong> And is Beckman in China which is a big contributor is that still sort of the same or has that changed at all? No Beckman China is a high-performing business a real growth catalyst for the company.
And they continue to be I think very well-positioned in obviously an exceptionally important market.
Research Division</strong> Lastly Larry obviously there's a pretty obvious risk of a European recession some big slowing here that's sort of reflected in the actions you were taking.
Could you comment on your -- how you're sort of thinking about your playbook maybe in contrast to '08? And I don't know maybe if you could comment sort of around how you're thinking about Dental for example and the performance then versus heading into a possible mild recession this time or perhaps some of the other businesses.
I mean I think your portfolio looks a little more defensive especially with Beckman but I'd like to hear your thoughts.
Well certainly you bring on a $4 billion book of business that's 75% in the aftermarket that creates a lot more ballast in the hull here if tough times are ahead.
But I don't think that we would see anything like an '08 '09 collapse of the economy as we all saw just a few years ago.
But I think your frame John is a good one relative to the playbook that we intend to use going into next year.
I mean regardless of what the macro scene ultimately is I think you're going to see us continue to be aggressive in and around our investments to grab share and that's both investments in technology and sales and marketing.
I think you will continue to see us be equally aggressive on the cost side of things.
You see that partially in the $100 million spend here in the fourth quarter.
Obviously as Dan just highlighted we're spending almost that much at Beckman this year to get that cost structure straight.
And that just gives us both I think earnings protection as well as frankly latitude to invest in growth -- organic growth at a time when others won't.
You couple that with the I think positioning we're going to have both strategically operationally and financially to be an active acquirer at a time when all things being equal our valuations are probably more reasonable and attractive for a strategic acquirer.
I think that means we're set up for 2012.
And again our crystal ball is no better than anyone else's but I think that playbook very similar to the playbook we had a couple of years ago but modified given again we don't expect to see that sort of paralysis next year is going to serve us very well.
Research Division</strong> Yes in other words it sounds like a mild recession maybe to a degree it might actually play a little a bit to your long-term strategic hand in terms of share gains and some other investments in M&amp;A.
John we would never wish for a downturn but if you go back to '08 '09 go back to '01 '02 in an odd way perhaps they have served us well.
And next we'll hear from Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> When you think about that $4 billion to $5 billion of additional M&amp;A spend over the next 2 years given how human resource constrained you probably are in Life Sciences and Diagnostics you have acquisitions I'm sure throughout the pipeline everywhere in all the divisions how confident can investors be that should the right big good ones come up in LS&amp;D or the medical side of the business that you'd actually still hold those off and wait for the industrial side over the next 2 years or is it kind of -- could it come out more balanced? Steve I think what we've said in the past is obviously we've got our hands full at Beckman Coulter.
Again pleased with where we are 90 days in.
But investors should expect us all things being equal to deploy that capital elsewhere in the portfolio.
And if you look at T&amp;M you look at Environmental a couple of things in Industrial could be interesting particularly around product ID.
I think that Dan and I this morning don't talk about that $4 billion to $5 billion envelope without conviction that those opportunities exist.
We can get at those investments in ways that I think will generate real returns for shareholders.
So I don't think there's any change in that regard.
And again as I think Dan alluded to the better valuations in the industrial world at least today and going forward than maybe we'd seen in the last couple of years are certainly conducive to the effort that we intend to lay in T&amp;M Environmental and Industrial.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And you didn't mention Dental there.
I take it intentionally would that fall into the same category as Life Sciences even though you don't have as much acquisition work going on there? Yes I think that Dental again a hyper fragmented market by and large.
Don't be surprised if we do small thing here or there but in terms of big bets I think they're going to be elsewhere.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a couple of follow-ups.
One the capacity -- sorry the comments on $100 million restructuring spend just to be clear is any of that being directed at capacity reduction as well? I don't mean sort of shifting footprints.
I assume you're getting more productivity out of other areas I mean -- or should we think about you're taking capacity out? Net capacity out? I think we're making structural costs out.
We don't view it as capacity.
And these are basically projects that would've been in -- that were in the 2012 budget that we're starting to go through.
And I think given the progress we have with the Beckman margin the very strong core margins we had in Q3 we just felt we sort of had the room to kind of pull it forward and get it done here.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally on price/cost could you give us some flavor in terms of how that dynamic progressed through the quarter across the businesses maybe? Well it hits us both in industrial.
We got about 20 basis more price this quarter versus Q2.
Clearly there's been a fair amount of inflation probably through the -- probably the end of July.
We've seen some of that subside obviously in spot rates but we haven't really seen that benefit yet across the businesses.
Hopefully in Q4 there's often a lag.
You bring inventory in and then run it through the P&amp;L.
So it's a net and that was probably a slight negative in the quarter the price/cost dynamics.
Hopefully that may be a slight positive for us.
But again given our business mix it's not a huge issue overall for our P&amp;L.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So there'll be a marginal potential upside to the fourth quarter? Yes.
And next we'll go to Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So on Beckman just I guess an update on -- I mean you still thinking the $0.05 of accretion in the fourth quarter and where are you thinking about next year and maybe just give us a sense of kind of milestones that we should be thinking about? Shannon just maybe briefly on the accretion.
Clearly we trended better in the margins through the third quarter than we had forecasted at the beginning of the summer.
I think that puts us in a position where there's probably a couple more cents of accretion in Beckman in Q4.
We're taking some of that and putting that back into that $50 million of incremental restructuring.
I think we'll avoid sort of updating any '12 numbers until December.
I don't know if you want to talk about additional milestones Larry or...
Shannon any particular area of the business that you're thinking about with these milestones? Research Division</strong> Well I mean you mentioned some of the I guess some of the FDA already.
I guess maybe from an organizational standpoint on the cost side of things obviously you've got 3/4 of the 1 000 done I mean what sort of comes next? Well I mean from an organizational perspective obviously we have the remaining quarter for 250 people that we need to transition or will be transitioning out here in the fourth quarter.
So obviously a new structure.
You have a reconstituted leadership team with Beckman veterans and some Danaher folks and again with some industry experience being brought in as well.
Obviously with nearly 10% of the headcount reduced that changes a lot in the organization.
So I think what you're going to see -- well you're not going to see a lot of this.
It will be happening inside the business.
That new structure that new leadership team the new organization is really going to begin to again work more like a Danaher business than perhaps they have in the past.
To Scott's question earlier I alluded to some the progress that we're making with respect to quantity and growth very much the focus here.
And that's just daily work.
That's what we do in transforming and building businesses.
We're thrilled with the progress.
Obviously from a quality perspective there will be some things that you'll be able to see from the outside in terms of some of these public customer-facing issues.
Again I mentioned some of the product recalls that have been widely publicized.
We've got one of those behind us.
We're making good progress on the other 2 and are obviously keen to have all 3 remediated in the not-too-distant future.
Obviously there's a lot more to the quantity challenge at Beckman.
I think that presented itself in the warning letter.
But again to reiterate we really didn't find that there was new news in the wake of that FDA audit.
The work that the company had disclosed previously the progress that they've made all of that combined I think gives us a conviction that we will not only fix the issues of the past but ultimately make quality a competitive advantage for Beckman Coulter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on dental one of the real weak spots I think last quarter and a sharp recovery maybe talk a little bit about what got done and then -- but yet it's still a focused area for restructuring.
So what still needs to happen? Well clearly we've talked about dental in the past as a business that ought to be a 15% to 20% segment OP performer very much in line with some of the other segments.
Shannon it's a long list of different items that constitute what they'll do here in the fourth quarter.
There will be obviously as Dan was alluding to earlier some structural costs that comes out.
That will be fairly well balanced between what we do here and what we do in Europe.
And as we go through the quarter I think we'll be able to give you a little bit more color as to some of the specifics.
But again pleased with what they've done this year certainly you saw that present itself in the third quarter.
And we continue to have tremendous conviction that the Dental segment can and will be an in-line contributor at Danaher.
Our next question will come from Jeffrey Sprague with Vertical Research.
Larry or Dan can you give us Beckman's actual pro forma core revenue growth in the quarter and some color how it's split between equipment and consumables? Jeff it was again basically a flattish performance at Beckman on the top line.
And I would characterize that as fairly well balanced between the split between the 2.
And could you give us a little bit more color on what you're seeing in muni markets both in the U.S.
and Europe? Yes I think if you look across where we have that muni exposure it's been steady in both places.
I think as we -- and we're certainly having a very good year at Trojan in that regard I think on both sides of the Atlantic again very much in line with the headlines.
The teams are maybe a bit cautious thinking about next year particularly with some of the bigger ticket products.
But be it on the drinking water side or on the wastewater side I think we saw good growth here in the third quarter expect to do same in the fourth quarter and see no reason why that -- I was going to say same in that [ph] platform isn't a grower for us next year.
But again we alluded to the more significant muni softness has been in China but what's in Europe and U.S.
is held in pretty nicely.
And the signs in China again are encouraging as we get towards the end of the year here that is slow start to this new 5-year plan is perhaps fading a bit on us which will be welcome.
Do you actually see Larry any sign from this kind of the chatter or people you talk to over there that the foot starts coming off the break from a credit standpoint or other kind of economy cooling types of initiatives that it had in place? I have heard that from a number of people who have I think thoughtful perspective on China.
The exact timing and the magnitude is a bit perhaps a bit of a guessing game.
But yes I have heard that.
And then finally just on tax Dan how much more of these type of opportunities do you think you have? And it looks like they're starting to push down your structural tax rate even a little bit lower.
As we roll into next year should we think that the underlying structural tax rate it's still kind of on a southward trajectory here? Well I think it appeared that with Beckman coming in it's probably taking our effective rate down maybe about 100 basis points from 25 and change to 24 and change.
Absent any changes out there whether it's U.S.
or internationally I think we're probably in that zone probably in that sort of 24% 25% rate which is below obviously what we're kind of running at the first half of the year.
Our final question will come from Deane Dray from Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on the comments earlier about the opportunity in network security analysis.
And it seems like every day there's another part of a security breach or hacking or so forth but what is the commercial opportunity both at the enterprise level local area networks for Fluke Networks and then broader from the carriers with TEK Communications? Dean as you just highlighted we see a breadth of opportunities both on our Tektronix Communications and our Fluke Networks and Arbor brands that plug in to both the physical security challenges that are out there for network operators both on the enterprise and the carrier -- more on the enterprise side.
But also in terms of some of these so-called hacking or cyber security threats.
Clearly we acquired Arbor for TEK Communications to give them an outstanding position in that application with the carriers.
That business has been probably one of the top 3 growers for Danaher this year.
They continue to be just choc-full of opportunity in their sales funnel and we expect them to have a very strong run here going forward.
That's not the only play in and around TEK Communications.
Obviously much of what we do in the network management space is akin to what Arbor does most directly as networks tackle the challenge not only of growth but security.
Clearly part of what we've done at Fluke Networks particularly with a recent acquisition called AirMagnet it improved our wireless test capability with again a strong slant there with respect to enterprise security.
So that's a very hot topic that courses through all the businesses.
So whether we're talking about the carriers whether we're talking about corporate IT we think we're well-positioned and the good growth we've seen this year is in no small part because of that exposure to cyber security broadly defined.
Research Division</strong> Is this still -- do have all the right pieces to be able to address the market opportunity? You had the Arbor acquisition but will this be homegrown from here or are there still pieces that you might need? Well Dean as you well know and this is a rapidly evolving space I think we really like not only what we have today but the R&amp;D capabilities we have in those businesses.
So it's hard for me to say that we have everything we need for all time given that we'll certainly be relying largely on our organic bets but I wouldn't be surprised and you shouldn't either if you see us make some other inorganic bets to complement what we have currently going forward.
Research Division</strong> And then just last question would be on TEK Communications.
What's the quote activity like on the carrier network your next-generation systems and any change in the competitive dynamics there? I wouldn't say we've seen any marked change there over the last 90 days Dean.
They are exceptionally busy as you can imagine given the wireless growth and the challenges that they help carriers tackle.
It can be at times a bit of a lumpy business but they came into the third quarter thinking they were going to have a good quarter.
They had a very good quarter given the urgency certain customers had around installations.
That will soften them up a bit here in the fourth quarter.
But I think if you look long term that part of TEK Communications really perhaps in many respects the unsung hero in the Tektronix acquisition should continue to be a strong growth contributor to Danaher.
And at this time I'd like to turn the conference back to the presenters for any additional or closing comments.
Thanks everyone.
Dan and I are around all afternoon today for follow-ups.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Tricia and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings Release Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to Sir Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release slide presentation supplementing today's call and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investors section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information and will remain available following the call.
As you read -- as our year-end Form 10-K have not yet been filed we have included as part of the earnings release the fourth quarter and full-year income statement year-end balance sheet and full-year cash flow statement.
In addition we've included data in the release reflecting our business segment results to facilitate your analysis.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investor section of our website later today under the headings Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until February 7 2012.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the confirmation code is 4407361.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the accompanying slide presentation our earnings release the other related presentation materials supplementing today's call and our annual report on Form 10-K when it's filed for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
All references in these remarks in the accompanying presentation to earnings revenues and other company specific financial metrics relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's businesses unless otherwise noted.
I'd also like to note that we'll be making some statements during the call that are forward-looking within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
It is possible that these actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks.
Good morning everyone.
2011 was another outstanding year for Danaher.
For the full year we saw high single-digit core revenue growth core margin expansion of 160 basis points adjusted earnings per share growth north of 25% and $2.4 billion of free cash flow.
However the numbers only tell part of the story.
During the year we continued to capture market share through both innovative new product introductions and our go-to-market initiatives.
For the first time in 2011 our R&amp;D spend exceeded $1 billion.
And this continued investment has played a significant part in the share gains at many of our businesses including Videojet Leica AB SCIEX Hach and ChemTreat.
In 2011 we significantly improved the Danaher portfolio.
We announced or closed 17 acquisitions during the year most notably of course Beckman Coulter and Esko while at the same time transitioning out some of our legacy businesses that were no longer considered significant core growth opportunities for us.
10 years ago approximately 50% of our revenues were derived from what we considered to be our strategic growth segments.
In 2012 that number will be nearly 90% reflecting the evolution of our portfolio towards higher growth higher margin more global businesses where our brands are clear market leaders.
Last month at our year-end meeting we talked about seeing strengthening in our businesses in early December.
We saw that momentum carry through December and we finished the fourth quarter with 4% core revenue growth modestly better than we anticipated.
During the quarter we delivered strong operational performance with our core operating margin improving 100 basis points despite investing $40 million in incremental year-over-year non-Beckman-related restructuring actions.
From a geographic perspective emerging markets continue to grow at a faster rate than developed markets although the gap narrowed in the fourth quarter.
Excluding the impact of Beckman Coulter sales from the developed markets grew low single digits in the quarter with the U.S.
doing noticeably better than Europe.
Emerging markets grew at a mid-single-digits rate.
In the second half of last year we grew our emerging markets businesses to the point where revenues now at 23% of our total are equal to those in Western Europe.
This balance provides a natural hedge given the headline risks in Europe today.
And going forward our emerging market exposure will undoubtedly be greater than that of Western Europe.
All in a strong finish to a good and important year.
So with that as a backdrop let me move to the details of the fourth quarter.
Today we reported fourth quarter adjusted diluted net earnings per share of $0.81 which includes $120 million of restructuring representing a record fourth quarter for Danaher and a 26.5% increase as compared to our adjusted diluted EPS last year.
For the full year adjusted diluted EPS was $2.83 a 28.5% increase compared to 2010.
And as we discussed in December we were able to accelerate restructuring across all the businesses with our Industrial Technology and Dental segments receiving the largest investments.
Revenues for the quarter increased 37.5% to $4.7 billion with core revenues up 4%.
The impact of acquisitions primarily the addition of Beckman Coulter increased revenues by 33.5%.
Our full-year 2011 revenues were up 28% year-over-year to $16.1 billion with core revenues up 7%.
Our year-over-year gross margin for the fourth quarter decreased 250 basis points to 49.3% while our operating margin in the fourth quarter decreased 80 basis points year-over-year to 16.5%.
Both decreases were primarily due to the incremental year-over-year restructuring activity and the impact of noncash acquisition-related costs and lower margins at Beckman Coulter.
For the full year our gross margin was 50.8% and our operating margin was 16.3%.
DBS continues to be the primary driver of our outstanding cash flow performance.
2011 operating cash flow was $2.7 billion a 35% increase compared to 2010.
Free cash flow from continuing operations was a record $2.4 billion and our free cash flow from continuing operations to net income ratio was 124% representing the 20th year in a row where we delivered free cash in excess of net income.
This is the first year Danaher's free cash flow has exceeded $2 billion.
In the second half of last year we paid down more than $1.2 billion of debt.
During the quarter we announced the acquisition of 10 businesses including 5 in the last 2 weeks of the year.
The fourth quarter acquisitions have aggregate annual revenues of approximately $100 million and are expected to strengthen our Environmental Test &amp; Measurement Dental and Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics segments.
Turning to our 5 operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement revenues increased 7% for the quarter with core revenues up 2.5%.
For the year revenues increased 19.5% with core revenues up 9.5%.
Test &amp; Measurement's core operating margin for the fourth quarter increased 230 basis points.
Reported operating margin increased 170 basis points to 21.5%.
Fluke core revenues were essentially flat in the quarter with solid demand in the emerging markets for our industrial automation and calibration products partially offset by weakness in Europe.
During the quarter Fluke acquired Martel Electronics a manufacturer of calibration process tools for industrial applications.
Fluke also acquired 2 Asian distribution partners to accelerate our penetration in the region.
At Tektronix core revenues declined slightly in the quarter with solid demand for our video solutions and service offerings more than offset by weaker demand in our core bench top instruments.
We're encouraged by the sequential improvement in monthly sales through the fourth quarter and early signs that some of the credit issues facing our Chinese distributors are easing.
The market perception for our newly launched MDO4000 the world's first Mixed Domain Oscilloscope has been overwhelmingly positive with 5 significant industry awards received to date.
Core revenues at our communications businesses grew high single digits in the quarter led by healthy demand for Tektronix network management solutions in North America as well as our enterprise tools and network security solutions globally.
During the quarter Arbor Networks began shipping their Pravail Availability Protection System and customer response has been very favorable.
Pravail's cloud signaling technology is truly an innovative solution facilitating communication between customers and network providers during the distributed denial of service or DdoS attack enabling the network operators to quickly block traffic from the source of the attack minimizing downtime for the customers' businesses.
Turning to Environmental segment revenues increased 7% in the quarter with core revenues increasing 5.5%.
For the year revenues were up 7.5% with core revenues up 4%.
The segment core operating margin was up modestly in the fourth quarter with reported operating margin decreasing 20 basis points to 21.9%.
Water Quality core revenues increased at a high single-digit rate.
At Hach Lange the sales of our core lab instrumentation used in industrial applications were healthy due in part to the recent launch of the DR 3900 spectrophotometer and the HQD Benchtop meter.
We saw a modest improvement in demand in the municipal business in China while the North American and Western European municipal businesses grew at low single-digit rates in the quarter.
During the quarter Hach acquired X-ray Optical Systems a provider of x-ray fluorescent instruments used in elemental analysis for applied and environmental applications.
At Trojan core revenues increased at a high teens rate in the quarter driven by growth in all major geographies with particularly strong performance in Asia where Trojan delivered a large municipal wastewater system in Hong Kong.
In December we highlighted Trojan's ballast water treatment solution and are pleased to report today that we received our first treatment system order this month.
Earlier this month as well Trojan acquired Salsnes Filter which provides filtration technology to remove particles from municipal wastewater and industrial process water.
ChemTreat's aggressive go-to-market investments continue to pay off with core revenues growing low double digits in the quarter their sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit core growth and market share gains.
ChemTreat revenues have increased by more than 1/3 with operating margins expanding approximately 500 basis points since Danaher acquired the business 4 years ago.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's fourth quarter core revenues were flat with the Spencer sales up more than 10% in North America and Europe and high teens growth at Veeder-Root offset by a difficult year-over-year comparison resulting from enhanced industry security standards in 2010.
In 2011 Gilbarco generated over $30 million in revenues supplying truck stop operators with our new diesel exhaust fluid dispensers.
During the quarter we signed an agreement to acquire Acis Group to expand GVR's global footprint and to provide superior channel access in Eastern Europe.
The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the first quarter.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
Revenues for the quarter increased 153.5% largely due to the addition of Beckman Coulter.
Core revenues were up 6% in the quarter.
For the year revenues increased 101.5% with core revenues up 7%.
Our core operating margin was up 245 basis points in the fourth quarter while our reported operating margin decreased 10 basis points from the prior year to 13% as a result of restructuring and integration activities noncash charges related to fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue at Beckman Coulter.
Radiometer's core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate for the quarter driven by continued strong sales of our instruments and consumables across all major geographies.
Demand for our ABL80 blood gas analyzer in the emerging markets was particularly robust growing more than 25% in the quarter.
We've had a number of very exciting regulatory approvals over the last couple of months starting with the November approval of the AQT analyzer and the full 5 assay panel in China.
The Chinese market is currently growing at more than 30%.
Additionally just last week we received U.S.
FDA approval for AQT in the myoglobin assay.
Myoglobin is one of the cardiac biomarkers typically used to help diagnose or rule out heart attacks.
We are still in the process of expanding the U.S.
menu to the full 5 assay panel but this clearance is an important first step for our U.S.
commercialization.
At Leica Biosystems core revenues increased more than 10% in the quarter with healthy demand for our advanced staining systems globally and core histology systems in North America.
Our Bond III immunohistochemistry platform grew its installed base more than 20% in 2011 continuing to drive share gains and pulling through high-margin consumables along the way.
Leica Microsystems core revenues grew at a low single-digit rate driven by sales of compound microscopes used in research applications in Europe and in Asia.
Our above-market core revenue growth in confocal microscopy in 2011 is an excellent example of how innovation can provide a competitive advantage and drive market share gains.
Core revenues at AB SCIEX grew at a low double-digit rate in the quarter driven by new products launched earlier in the year as well as the continued uptake of the TripleTOF 5600.
Demand was broad-based with academic applied and research markets all growing in excess of 10%.
We couldn't be more pleased with the first full year at AB SCIEX.
This was a challenging integration but the team is really executing well and delivered low double-digit core growth and over 500 basis points of operating margin improvement in 2011.
During the quarter we expanded our direct presence in India with the acquisition of Leica and AB SCIEX's distribution partner LabIndia.
This acquisition provides us with a strong foundation to broaden our commercial footprint in this increasingly important region of the world.
Turning to Beckman Coulter.
We've owned the business now for just over 6 months and have been very pleased with the integration as well as the performance of the business thus far.
We've received an excellent reception throughout the organization and the changes made so far are having a significant impact on the way the business is run on a daily basis.
Our focus early on has been implementing the Danaher Business System and getting the organization focused on simplicity accountability and competitiveness.
Much of what we have done in changing the organizational structure and the team has been with those 3 themes in mind.
There's been a significant talent infusion both from Danaher and from elsewhere in the industry to compliment the tremendous team at Beckman Coulter.
We have 10 Danaher people now in senior positions both in Diagnostics and Life Sciences and there are another 25 full-time equivalents elsewhere in Danaher who are working with the Beckman team to implement the Danaher Business System.
DBS has had an early impact on quality.
Beckman had some well-documented quality challenges that we knew would require our utmost focus.
We've been encouraged by the early signs of progress here particularly on the assay front with resolution of sodium and glucose.
And while we've been focused on product quality we've also made progress in product innovation and new product development.
If you were with us in December you got a chance to take a look at the new AU 5800 platform which is now U.S.
FDA approved giving Beckman a high throughput analyzer to drive our competitiveness in this fast-growing segment of the chemistry market.
Our hematology product line has been enhanced with the launch of the DxH Slidemaker Stainer which increases productivity and quality by automating routine slide making and staining in the hematology lab.
The cost out effort has gone better than initially expected given the fast start in December.
As many of you know we increased our total cost savings target by $100 million to $350 million and believe we're on pace to achieve $250 million of cost reduction in 2012 about 2 years ahead of schedule.
While there is a lot of work ahead on both the quality and innovation fronts we're very pleased with the progress to date.
Turning to Dental segment.
Revenues increased 5.5% in the fourth quarter with core revenues up 2.5%.
For the full year revenues were up 10% with core revenues growing 4.5%.
Our reported operating margin declined 120 basis points in the fourth quarter to 10.9%.
The decline was the result of more than 400 basis points of restructuring activity which helps position the segment for another step-up in margin in 2012.
Dental consumables core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate in the quarter led by robust sales for our Damon Clear orthodontic solutions infection prevention products and general dentistry consumables primarily in North America and in the emerging markets.
During the quarter we acquired the endodontic divisions of DEXIS Dental.
The addition of these unique and innovative products are expected to further strengthen SybronEndo's position as a leader in the endodontic marketplace.
KaVo core revenues were flat in the quarter with solid demand for our imaging products globally offset by weakness in equipment and instruments particularly in Europe.
Dentists continued to express interest in digital radiography and 3D imaging products.
And with our recently completed global launch of our new hybrid digital imaging system we're well positioned to take advantage of these trends in 2012.
Pelton &amp; Crane's core revenues grew low double digits in 2011 due in part to the success of its DTE or Driven to Excellence campaign which hosted more than 400 doctors for a 2-day dental office design seminars and generated more than $10 million in sales for the year.
Moving to our Industrial Technology segment.
Revenues increased 15% for the quarter with core revenues up 3%.
For the full year revenues grew 23% with core revenues up 11.5%.
Our core operating margin declined 50 basis points in the fourth quarter with our reported operating margin down 70 basis points to 18.1%.
The decline was a result of more than 200 basis points of restructuring activity which will help drive further improvements in 2012.
Product Identification core revenues grew low single digits in the quarter led by solid demand for Videojet continuous inkjet printers in North America.
Videojet has seen tremendous success with its full suite of CIJ printers and we believe meaningfully outperformed the market in 2011.
During the quarter we launched the 6250 TTO printer to meet demand in the midrange flexible packaging market.
At Esko revenues were up at a mid-teens rate in the quarter compared to a year ago when it was a standalone company.
Demand was robust across all major geographies for both our software and our hardware product lines.
Our motion business's core revenues declined at a mid-single-digit rate in the quarter.
The momentum of the first half of 2011 did not continue in the fourth quarter due primarily to weakness in the industrial automation technology and solar markets in China and North America.
Despite these headwinds demand for Kollmorgen's engineered solutions for electric vehicle systems remains healthy.
In the quarter the company signed a 5-year $35 million agreement to supply generators to a large multinational OEM.
So to wrap up it was clearly a very good fourth quarter and full year for Danaher.
The investments we've made over the last several years in innovation and go-to-market initiatives were evident in our strong free cash flow core revenue and earnings growth in 2011.
The structural cost actions undertaken in the fourth quarter position us well for further margin expansion and allow us to fund growth opportunities where they present themselves.
Financially we're well positioned to take advantage of what we believe will be an attractive acquisition environment in 2012.
We are initiating today first quarter diluted EPS from continuing operations guidance of $0.66 to $0.71 and reaffirming our full-year guidance of $3.20 to $3.35.
The first quarter earnings per share guidance assumes low single-digit core revenue growth in the quarter.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal comments.
Trish I think we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to the line of Scott Davis with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to go back to Test &amp; Measurement a bit and that business has always had a fairly good macro read if nothing else.
But when you think about the slowdown in core growth in the quarter can you walk us through the geographic kind of breakdown of where that core came from and talk to a book-to-bill there? Sure.
I think that what we saw Scott at T&amp;M and I'd say both kind of in the core instruments business at both Fluke and at TEK interestingly was pretty good sell-through both in the U.S.
and to a lesser degree in Europe.
But in the face of that -- decent sell-through we were seeing channel inventory adjustments which led in part to the results that we've shared with you this morning.
And then we've highlighted that we've seen some sequential slowing in China through the second half and that certainly continued as we worked our way through the quarter.
Obviously a little bit more pronounced at TEK than at Fluke.
But I think as we look at that we're optimistic that that inventory dynamic won't continue -- can't continue for too long given the POS that we've seen.
And having been in China earlier in the month I think the team is certainly mindful that we've seen the sequential slowing.
They seem to be I think optimistic both at Fluke and at TEK that we'd see a sequential strengthening as we move forward from here.
Scott in terms of the book to bill we were north of one in the fourth quarter.
I'm continuing to see very strong order growth at -- with our Tektronix business and the 3G LTE sort of build out.
As Larry alluded to I think we're going to face -- it will a little bit tough early in the year part given the double-digit growth we had last year.
But clearly some signs out there in the sort of technology world the PMI data that's encouraging for that business.
Now there will often tend to be a couple of quarter lag between those indicated getting a little better and us really seeing the pickup.
So I think it will be a little bit slower early in the year but there are some signs both including the order books that are encouraging as we look through the year.
Yes just to add to there I mean the backlog position at comms is significantly up from a year ago.
They had a very strong bookings year and as we get into 2012 obviously take a lot of confidence from that here at the outset.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And this is -- it's interesting you called out DBS as helping in Beckman and this is the first quarter you've done that obviously.
It's a new asset for you.
But how long does it take -- I mean how long does it take to get critical mass in a company of that size to where you're ahead of the curve on the cost out? But really how long does it take to instill kind of a DBS culture into a company that big? Well I think that it's clearly Scott a multi-year effort.
But when we talk about I think the progress that we're making at Beckman and there's a lot of progress I'll just highlight a couple of examples we would attribute it to DBS.
I think if you look at just the performance thus far right we're pretty much kind of as expected with respect to the top line.
You clearly know that we've accelerated on the cost side of things.
I think that that discipline around top line execution working the sales funnels in the developed markets in Asia a large part of that comes as a result of DBS.
Clearly on the OP front right continue to drive sequential performance with respect to the margins that traction that we've got around just maintaining a tighter level of spend in some of the G&amp;A buckets obviously some of the headcount adjustments all signs of early progress and to think that we're a couple of years ahead here on the cost out I think is a large -- in large part a function of all the various tenants of the Danaher Business System being deployed.
But it's just not that right and we talked about quality I think that there is no small contribution being made as we resolved the sodium and glucose issues in the way that we have put in a level of rigor a level of discipline around some of those issues.
We've talked about troponin.
We're working that effort with respect to the first quarter submission.
I think that team in that case obviously an important task making some good progress.
Probably we're slower there than we would have anticipated which might impact the timing there.
But again I think using some of the process tools to help tackle a rather complex project.
Our new product launches as well I think important evidence that DBS is helping on the quality front whether it be the approvals that they were able to get through at FDA in 2011 which was 2x what we did in 2010 let alone the completion of the new 5800 approval.
And even with respect to the warning letter we got at Brea.
We got some good news very recently relative to our reinspection where the FDA came in and as a result of the work that team has done again using many of the process tools that we have in place or are introducing at Beckman in addition to their quality system we ended up with no 483 observations which is obviously very encouraging testament to the hard work that team is doing but I think also signs of some of the early evidence or some of the early efforts with respect to DBS is impacting the way the business is operating on a day-to-day basis.
We have a lot work to do Scott.
But whether you talk about performance quality even some of the growth -- some of the other growth efforts here I think we're encouraged.
We'll go next to the line of Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question of Beckman kind of core growth looked kind of flattish is that right? Organically yes.
A little less than currency but flat organically.
Research Division</strong> Flat organically okay.
And then the product ID business sorry I might have missed that.
What did you guys grow in the quarter and then any change for kind of the 2012 expectations? What are guys expecting for growth there in 2012? It was up low single digits in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then what you're expecting for 2012? Low to mid single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what do you think the markets growing there in 2012? I think in line with that.
Research Division</strong> In line with that so you guys don't losing any share? No we're pretty convinced we're not losing share.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Hey Larry I wonder if you might summarize any changes in your views on organic growth for 2012 today relative to where we were at the analyst meeting.
And I guess in particular I'm curious about your view on Life Sciences AB SCIEX up low double digit in the quarter a little bit stronger than we had.
I wonder if that lifts your view on 2012 for that business in particular.
Sure.
I would say we aren't quite ready to change our outlook here a month or so since we were together in New York.
Obviously I think we were very encouraged by what we saw in December in terms of the way it played out particularly here in the U.S.
We probably haven't had this big a spread between the U.S.
and Europe in some time and that was really more a function I think of U.S.
strength than European weakness.
I think that said just given all the headlines out there and maybe to a degree given the surprising level of strength at the end of the year I think we're going to watch this very carefully.
I think when you come to a year end like that you can ask yourself how much of that was real versus budget flushing or any other year-end stimulation that might not carry forward.
I think thus far in January things are fairly well in line with our expectations.
But with respect to SCIEX or Life Sciences more broadly I don't think that that strong finish would have us taking up just yet our outlook for 2012.
Now I have been encouraged had the opportunity here in January to be on the ground in China in India and in the Gulf I think the mindsets there are by and large pretty positive for the year.
I think they're particularly in China mindful of some of the sequential slowing that they're wrestling with.
But by and large it certainly was an upbeat mood in all 3 parts of the world as we look at this year and this will clearly be the geographies that drive much of our growth in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the Industrial business the motion business is down.
As we look at the guidance for the first quarter for the total company core up low single digits any businesses that you would expect other than that motion business perhaps given the difficult comps continuing? Any other businesses across the portfolio you'd expect to be in negative territory? Terry I'd say of for the quarter and frankly for the year we don't expect any of the segments to be down.
I would say that in the quarter the instruments business at TEK and motion probably going to be down call it mid-singles in the quarter.
And part of that I think is the way they finished part of it's that frankly it's the fact that they've got some very tough comps here in the first quarter.
You'll recall that motion was up 22% a year ago in the first quarter.
I think TEK was up about 14%.
So I think we're mindful for that but again don't expect any of those businesses let alone the segments to be down for the year.
We're going to watch TEK carefully.
I guess there's a possibility they could be flat for the year but probably too early to call that definitively.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Dan maybe just it looks like working capital was negative for the fourth quarter to a greater extent than normal and then negative for the year.
May just be a timing thing but going back in the model I can't see a negative working capital number for the company going back to 2002.
Anything to talk about there kind of looked like it was in the other category but maybe just a timing issue there? No I think we're very pleased with working capital performance and think about we generated $1 billion of organic revenue and organically we didn't add $1.00 of working capital.
That's really what -- that's really the power of DBS and you see that in our free flow conversion.
So we had a little bit of benefit of Beckman but still in the early days really going after that working capital but we were very pleased across the businesses that have been with us for a long time on their performance particularly in the fourth quarter on working capital.
We'll go next to the line of Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So on SCIEX Larry obviously the trends there continue well above market despite the tougher comps and it seems like pretty broad base from an end-market perspective.
So any color you would offer on which end markets within SCIEX lead and which lag in 2012? Well I think that's -- I think cutting it by end market Jon is hard right now.
Again I think in part given the outlook around some of the governmental roles here and certainly some -- maybe perhaps some of the uncertainty around pharma.
I think we were pleased with the way virtually all of the end markets really ran through at a good clip at year's end.
But I don't think that we would -- we're clearly not banking on anything that's government-funded being particularly robust maybe with a couple of exceptions given what we suspect will happen in China and perhaps in Germany.
I think we always watch the pharma end market with some -- with a conservative posture just given some of the issues that are going through the resets of R&amp;D spend and R&amp;D operations at least with big pharma.
But by and large I think that's probably how we would characterize the landscape here at the end of January.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
My follow-up is on Beckman.
It actually looked pretty good from a revenue perspective if I'm doing my math right.
Can you comment on any changes at the margin in kind of that core chemistry business given that you've got sodium and glucose back on the market? I mean have you seen any vitality related to that? Or are those trends still on the comp on your view? Well I think we've actually been quite encouraged Jon by the underlying metrics in the business.
As you know the core revenue performance of the business is often indicative of decisions that customers have made some time ago as opposed to what's happening here and now.
I think with respect to core chemistry maybe more a function of the launch now of the AU 5800 particularly in Europe.
We're seeing our chemistry business really kind of back up on its feet.
We had a significant win.
In fact in the quarter in the fourth quarter in Europe where the 5800 was a big part of that.
And that was business we weren't retaining or competing to retain.
That was frankly business we've lost a couple of years ago.
So I think now that we've got the 58 approved in the U.S.
and we get some of the other operational issues behind us out of Mishima as you saw in December at the analyst meeting with their implementation of DBS we're encouraged in that regard.
I think more broadly if you look at what we saw in December really in the fourth quarter both with respect to our retention activity as well as our competitive win rate we were again encouraged.
The growth more room activities the growth implementation of DBS clearly helping us just be more competitive as we get out and work to retain our install base.
And in December I think we had the best competitive win rate numbers that we've seen at least that we saw in the second half of last year.
So I think the trends are certainly helpful and reinforce the work the team is doing.
But we would say it's still early and a lot of work lies ahead.
We'll go next to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
I may not have followed all the color on Environment.
What was kind of the drag I mean I heard kind of decent trends at water quality and Trojan and ChemTreat I might have missed Gilbarco but what kind of held you back to the 2% growth in the quarter? Well the growth is primarily the payment security comp at Gilbarco Veeder-Root Jeff.
We had I think really a surprisingly strong growth in all the other product lines the core automation in the Environmental products but that security comp that was a tough one all year for us was particularly onerous in the fourth quarter.
And that's also part of what you see in the Environmental margins that mix shift at Gilbarco away from payment didn't help us.
Obviously the reported margins were suppressed I guess about 20 bps or so given the restructuring.
But that was a further challenge given the mix pressures at GVR.
Great.
And then just the idea kind of year-end noise in various businesses.
So did you actually think you saw some budget flush activity going on in parts of your business because you might have the opposite in some of the distribution businesses right where people were drawing down inventory and trying to free up cash.
But you felt perhaps there was a different set of behaviors going on elsewhere in the portfolio? Any color on...
Jeff I think you characterized what we saw pretty well.
I think across a portfolio like ours you don't necessarily anticipate customer behavior being similar business to business to business.
But we did see just a cross-section of our channel partners take a fairly conservative posture on inventory despite POS in many instances being good.
So I think you put your finger on it.
I think with respect to where we sell on a direct basis we're still kind of piecing together what we saw and what it means for the first quarter here but there probably was some of that.
It's hard to kind of pinpoint it.
But the fourth quarter again particularly in the U.S.
December all the more was quite strong and it's quite strong all the way to the end.
So it's hard to discount the possibility there was some of that in there which again I think back to one of the earlier questions of why we're not trying to get too far ahead of ourselves here early in 2012.
And then on troponin I don't think it's a news flash that things are going a little slow there but you did mention maybe a little slower than expected.
Can you just give us an update on what the challenges are at this point and what your kind of the main hurdles you're working on? Yes.
I think the process of going through the recertification as we've described before is it's complex and we're working very closely with the agency to make sure that we have a regimen in place that satisfies their objectives as well as ours.
And that's just a big complex project.
Again I think the team is making good progress here but at this juncture maybe a little slower in some cases than anticipated.
And that's the nature of that type of work.
But again I think all in all the balance of progress that we made on the regulatory front is very encouraging and on that front I think we knew those were risks that would have to be well managed at the outset with Beckman.
And I'm very pleased not only in terms if you will the Danaher contribution but the very strong effort on the part of the Beckman leadership and the Beckman teams that have been involved in that work.
We'll go next to Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I just want to dig into -- I just want to dig into your 1Q guidance.
I mean I realize the range is consistent and in line with typical seasonality for your full-year guidance.
But if I add back your restructuring in this quarter you wouldn't make sense.
And the drop-down to 1Q is obviously a lot heavier than we normally see.
So what are the big swing factors between 4Q and 1Q aside from your normal conservatism? Well I mean we've probably added a little bit to the seasonality with Beckman.
Beckman had a terrific fourth quarter but it is also seasonally the strongest and Q1 is seasonally the weakest for Beckman.
So I think you've got a -- if you look at historically the step down is not that far out of line with what we normally see and you add to that the impact of Beckman.
That probably explains most of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Larry could you maybe calibrate your inventory commentary because it sounds like we saw a big inventory drop in China particularly with Endotronics [ph] in early part of 4Q and then that normalized.
How would you comment on just general inventory trends you saw during 4Q and do you think we're done with that process? Well I think that probably it's too early to declare that we're through it.
I think our partners are like everyone else trying to sort out what sort of start to the year we're going to see and have come into the year I think conservatively positioned.
But again I think we saw that play across the portfolio in the quarter in a whole host of different places.
It was clearly I think almost in defiance of what we're seeing with respect to POS in the U.S.
and even in Europe.
Obviously we did see slowing in China.
I mentioned some of the credit contraction that we saw.
I can't think of an example Nigel where we had distributors who were having credit issues -- at least situations where that was flagged in the U.S.
or in Europe in the way that it was in some of the emerging markets particularly in China.
So I think we're optimistic that this does have a short life to it but ultimately those inventory positions will be a function of sell-out.
We'll see how that plays out here in the first couple of months to 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on the deals on 4Q.
It looks like you paid a sales multiple about 1.2x.
That's quite a bit lower than your normal multiples.
Are you seeing any signs that the multiples off by sellers are coming in a little bit? It's a little bit hard to make a broad read.
But we were encouraged by the real step-up in bolt-on activity that happened in the latter part of the year and the amount of deals that we closed at the end of the year.
I wouldn't quite yet extrapolate that to the more mid- and larger-size deals but I think an encouraging sign.
Because even on bolt-on 12 months ago they were pricier.
We'll go next to Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Larry just I hate to bring it back to the troponin thing but just one more just a little bit more clarity.
Are you guys actually calling out explicitly then your expectations for submission in which quarter now? No.
No I think we're just suggesting that we've got a major project that is experiencing some good encouraging progress.
But again kind of slower than we originally anticipated.
So we'll keep you posted but that's kind of what we know today.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But at least slipping off of the first quarter expectation or not even saying that yet? I've said what I've said.
And again it's one part of the puzzle.
It's not a part that in any ways material financially here in 2012.
We've said that I think from the outset.
So that's kind of what we know today.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the -- I know back in December you talked about the $40 million spend on molecular diagnostics sort of on a run-rate basis.
I mean any visibility there about progress in that area and how we might think about some announcements over time as we progress through the year? Steve I think somebody earlier suggested we were conservative.
We take that as high praise.
And I think when we have the opportunity to share with you what we're doing with respect to investments we'll do that.
But I think when we're talking about large and perhaps above-average risky efforts I think we're going to be keen not to put ourselves in a box with respect to the timetables because things happen.
I don't think our teams are well served by that.
Frankly I'm not convinced investors are well served either.
So in this instance we start from a blank piece of paper maybe unlike some of the other situations and we'll keep you posted certainly as we get closer to submissions and launches.
We'll let everybody know.
But I think right now we simply want to share with folks that this is a serious undertaking on the part of the company.
We've removed a lot of costs at Beckman Coulter but have done nothing to diminish or undermine our support for the molecular effort there.
And obviously we do that with an eye toward a healthy meaningful return.
But at this juncture that's probably the extent of what we're comfortable sharing publicly.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just gross margin maybe one other thing that maybe easier on this front.
Just could you give us a better sense of what gross margin was x all the acquisitive dilution at the GM line? Steve if you've kind of backed out the onetime noncash charges at Beckman and kind of used a more typical fourth quarter restructuring as opposed to the $120 million we spent that would have been about 51% versus the reported 49%.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So pretty consistent there.
And therefore as indicative of pricing that you haven't experienced deterioration on the pricing front then? We have not.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And the $120 million in restructuring -- and I may just have missed this but just I know you called out the percentages in Dental and IT.
But just the rest of the business how do you end up spending it? It was about -- we talked about over 200 basis point impact in IT and over 400 in Dental.
It was about more like a 100 basis point or more like a 50 basis point impact in the other segments.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> In each of the other segments? Yes I'll get you the precise numbers but in that range.
We'll go next to Jon Groberg with Macquarie Capital.
Larry can you maybe -- it sounds like a little bit of a mixed message in emerging markets such as China you're kind of saying sequential slowing but I think you said you expected to lead for the year.
Can you maybe just provide a little bit more color kind of around each of your businesses there and how you expect them to play out? Sure.
I think what we were saying John was that we would expect the emerging markets to lead the developed markets again here in 2012.
Certainly if you look at the fourth quarter China was not kind of at the top of the league table there.
In fact I think we saw our best growth in India where we were up I think over 30% in the fourth quarter.
I think with respect to the businesses in country certainly Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics is the business that is exceptionally well positioned both given the clinical build-out and the research mandates coming down from the government.
That's all part I think of the 12 5-year plan here we're well positioned and I saw I think a good reinforcement of that on this trip a few weeks back.
I think with respect to the T&amp;M business again we talked earlier to some of the channel dynamics some of the sequential slowing in TEK but again I think the team there feels optimistic that we'll see improvement sequentially as we go through the year.
In Environmental we clearly have been wrestling with some of these municipal water projects.
I think it was encouraged to see John that we had double-digit increase in our sales funnels at Hach Lange here early in the year compared to where we were a year ago.
That bodes well.
But as we learned in last year getting those projects out of the funnel and into the order book is really a function of how funds are released by the government.
And again while I think our teams are optimistic we'll -- I suspect we'll need a little bit more time here to actually see that play out in that regard.
Industrial is kind of a mixed story.
The Product Identification businesses have done pretty well there and continue to do so.
But our automation businesses have clearly been hit by some of the slowing build levels broadly in industrial automation but also particularly in some of the green TEK applications i.e.
solar where they were well positioned.
Dental is frankly too modest a base to talk about but we were up significantly last year and the team is well positioned to be up significantly again this year.
The base is so modest there and frankly they don't even care about market growth.
They can just go out and compete for their fair share of the existing market.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit of a run around China given what we know here in January.
That's very helpful.
Then if I could just follow up quickly on the Life Sciences and the Diagnostics business as you said you expect to be strong there.
You mentioned Beckman you said you're encouraged by retention rates and win rates.
And if you think historically Beckman basically the way they grew you said the retentions wins and then also pricing on new contracts.
I don't know if you'd be willing to share a little bit more specifics when you say encouraged how what you're seeing today kind of stacks up relative to their history? Well John I think the short answer if you'll allow me is that the baselines that we established once we were in control mid-year last year really give us the best space for an apples-to-apples comparison in that regard.
And again I think if we look just at I guess 6 months the sequential data both with respect to retention vis-à-vis the install base and wins vis-à-vis competition we've been heartened by the stability and some of the recent upticks in that regard.
We could debate whether 6 months is an ample sample set or not but that's what we have and we'll continue to work that rest assured.
I think that there's also frankly 2 other elements that have been part or at least can be part of the Beckman growth curve.
One is a more aggressive globalization of that business.
And as you know better than most and probably a step-up in expectations in Life Sciences.
That hasn't been a business that has grown for Beckman in the last several years but there's no reason that they can't grow and certainly grow in line with the rest of the Life Science portfolio at Danaher.
But we're going to push those efforts aggressively.
Obviously innovation plays an important part as we look forward to getting Beckman through the current phase that they're in and get them back fully up on their feet competing in the market and contributing to our growth and our earnings flow.
We'll go next to Deane Dray with Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> We covered a lot of ground here.
One data point I thought was interesting that was this new order first order for Trojan in the ballast water market.
And this is again what we consider to be the biggest new water market opportunity in the sector.
So any color regarding what this order was? Is it -- how many ships? Is this a prototype system? And how set is the technology? Do you expect this to -- you're still looking for the optimal solution? Well I think that Deane we would agree with you this is a tremendous breakthrough opportunity in the water space.
We obviously feel that with Trojan we're very well positioned.
I think that we want to respect the customer confidentiality at this point and limit our disclosure to what we've said.
But we're obviously encouraged because as you know adoption here has to start somewhere.
And to be able to take the product that Marv showed many of you there at the meeting in December and now have customers beginning to write orders is very helpful to send a signal to rest of the market that Trojan's a key partner here.
I think it's hard with respect to the technology to suggest that the solution that we have today is the solution that's going to exist for all-time and innovation here won't sit still.
And I think as you saw the footprint the overall efficiency let alone the efficacy of the product that we have at Trojan is very compelling.
And as the global agreements get set as these fleet operators begin to look at not only new installs but retrofits relative to their compliance program we expect it to be a very significant contribution to Trojan and the water group going forward.
Research Division</strong> And then just to clarify these orders or this order is all coming in prior to the international standards having been fully adopted is that right? That's right.
But I think any good operator is going to look at the trend here and recognize that they are well served to anticipate what is highly likely now as they think through again both new construction outfitting as well as their retrofit maintenance schedules.
All right.
And I apologize that due to time constraints we are to take no further questions.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
McGrew for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Trish and thank you everybody for joining us.
We're -- Dan and I are around pretty much all afternoon for any follow-ups.
And we'll conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Agasta and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] I would like to now turn the call over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call our first quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investors section on our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information and subheading Quarterly Earnings and will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of the call will be archived in the Investors section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until April 26 2012.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the confirmation code is 4431956.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the accompanying slide presentation our earnings release our first quarter Form 10-Q and other related presentation materials supplementing today's call for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
All references in these remarks in the accompanying presentation to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's businesses unless otherwise noted.
I'd also like to note that we'll be making some statements during the call that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
It's possible that actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks.
Good morning everyone.
The first quarter progressed largely as anticipated against the highest core growth quarter of last year.
Sales from the developed markets grew slightly with the U.S.
again noticeably better than Europe which declined this quarter.
China revenues were essentially flat while the rest of the emerging markets grew at a high single-digits rate.
Overall we were encouraged by a number of factors.
Both shipment and orders improved sequentially through the quarter.
Organic order growth was about 2 points higher than revenue growth as we built backlog across many of our businesses.
This was most noticeable in China where our book to bill exceeded 1.1.
Also in a number of markets sellout by our distribution partners was stronger than our sell-in.
We were pleased with the team's execution in the quarter which led to 85 basis points of year-over-year core operating margin expansion a 37.5% year-over-year increase in free cash flow and a 19.5% increase in EPS.
We continue to aggressively invest in new product introductions and go-to-market initiatives.
During the quarter we launched a number of exciting products a few of which we will highlight through the call today.
We remain active and optimistic on the M&amp;A front.
As you saw last week we announced the pending acquisition of X-Rite a global leader in color measurement.
Even after closing X-Rite and 3 other deals in the quarter we expect to have approximately $5 billion of M&amp;A capacity over the next 2 years.
So with that as a backdrop let me move to the details of the quarter.
Today we reported record first quarter diluted net earnings per share of $0.73 a 19.5% increase as compared to our diluted net EPS last year.
Revenues for the quarter increased 31% to $4.3 billion with core revenues up 1.5%.
The impact of acquisitions primarily the addition of Beckman Coulter increased revenues by 30.5% while the negative impact of currency translation reduced sales by about 1 point.
Our gross margin for the first quarter was 51.8% a 250-basis point sequential improvement from the fourth quarter.
Our operating margin in the first quarter decreased 80 basis points year-over-year to 17%.
DBS continues to be a primary driver of our outstanding cash flow performance.
First quarter operating cash flow was $651 million a 50% increase year-over-year.
Free cash flow was $534 million an increase of 37.5% versus the prior year.
Our free cash flow to net income conversion ratio was greater than 100% inclusive of more than $50 million of incremental year-on-year cash spending related to our fourth quarter 2011 restructuring program.
And finally our tax rate in the first quarter was 25.3% which was modestly higher than we had forecast.
We expect the rates to be closer to 24% for the balance of the year.
So now let me turn to the 5 operating segments.
To start with Test &amp; Measurement revenues there -- core revenues increased 2% for the quarter.
Core operating margin for the first quarter increased 195 basis points while reported operating margin increased 190 basis points to 22.6%.
Overall our instruments businesses' core revenue declined mid-single digits in the quarter.
Fluke core revenues were down slightly in the quarter as growth in the U.S.
of our service and installation tools was more than offset by weak demand in Europe and China.
During the quarter we launched the new Ti100 thermal imager platform designed for industrial and building inspection applications.
These imagers feature easy-to-use innovative on-camera tools and plug-and-play connectivity with Fluke's smart new software to collect edit and analyze thermal images.
Initial orders have been quite strong.
Tektronix core sales declined mid-single digits in the quarter with continued softness in Europe and China.
In the U.S.
we continue to see solid POS though our sell-in to distribution partners declined year-over-year.
We were also encouraged by the sequential improvement we saw in order activity across the business with book to bill finishing at 1.0 for the quarter an acceleration from the mid-90s rate last quarter.
The recent launch of TEK's 70000D Series 33-gigahertz oscilloscope is off to a great start and our MDO4000 mixed domain oscilloscope continues to gain broad industry recognition as a game-changing technology.
In the quarter the MDO4000 received the prestigious ACE Award and the ultimate product in Test &amp; Measurement systems category the ninth major award recognizing the innovation at the foundation of the MDO4000.
Core revenues from our communications businesses grew at a mid-teens rate in the quarter led by healthy demand for Tektronix Communications' network management solutions for wireless carriers in North America as well as our enterprise tools and network security solutions globally.
Customers' response to Fluke Networks recently launched OptiView XG and Arbor Networks' Pravail network security system continues to be strong.
Moving to Environmental.
Revenues increased 4% in the quarter with core revenues up 2.5%.
The segment core operating margin declined modestly in the first quarter with reported operating margin decreasing 70 basis points to 18.6%.
Water Quality core revenues increased at a low single-digit rate while orders were up mid single digits due in part to solid demand across most industrial verticals.
Municipal spending was stronger than anticipated in the U.S.
but remains constrained in China but project funnels are encouraging there.
Trojan is continuing validation work on its ballast water treatment solution and remains on track to begin shipping systems in earnest later this year.
During the quarter the U.S.
Coast Guard issued their highly anticipated Ballast Water Discharge Standard an important signal to the global community that the U.S.
supports international regulation.
ChemTreat continues to outperform based on the strength of their sales footprint and technical capabilities.
During the quarter they had several significant wins including a major U.S.-based manufacturer with over 20 sites.
The first quarter marked ChemTreat's seventh straight quarter of double-digit revenue growth an outstanding achievement.
Gilbarco's -- Gilbarco Veeder-Root's core revenues grew low single digits led by demand for our dispensers vapor recovery solutions and automatic tank gauges.
Our 2010 acquisition of the L&amp;T dispenser business in India has allowed us to significantly expand our localization initiatives in that region.
Recently Gilbarco launched a new dispenser platform designed and manufactured in India.
Customer reception has been extremely favorable helping drive greater than 20% growth in our dispenser business in the quarter.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
Revenues for the quarter increased 146.5% largely due to the addition of Beckman Coulter.
Core revenues were up 2% in the quarter.
Core operating margin for the segment was up 25 basis points in the first quarter while our reported operating margin decreased 110 basis points from the prior year to 13.3% largely as result of the Beckman Coulter acquisition.
The Diagnostics businesses got off to a solid start to the year with mid single-digit core growth which as a reminder does not include Beckman Coulter.
Radiometer's core sales increased at a high single-digit rate with broad-based strength across most product categories and geographies.
Demand for our ABL80 blood gas analyzer in China was particularly robust growing more than 20% in the quarter.
Following last years' regulatory approval customer adoption of AQT in China has been strong driven in part by the outstanding value proposition presented for our customers.
A large Class 3 hospital in China recently purchased an AQT and informed us that they experienced a 66% improvement in turnaround time for cardiac marker results which allows the hospitals to perform 2.5x the number of cardiac tests versus their central lab.
We're obviously thrilled when we hear that sort of customer feedback from core customers.
Leica Biosystems sales increased at a low single-digit rate with mid-teens in shipments and order growth for advanced staining.
The core histology business was flat in the quarter largely driven by weakness in Europe.
Our Life Sciences businesses experienced flat core growth in the quarter.
AB SCIEX core sales grew modestly in the quarter.
However orders were up mid-teens positioning the business well for strong core growth in the upcoming quarters.
Mid single-digit revenue growth in the U.S.
and emerging markets was largely offset by weakness in Europe.
The team continues to do an excellent job on the margin front as core margins were up over 100 basis points in the quarter.
At the Pittcon conference in February SCIEX debuted several new products including the 4500 Series of mass spectrometer the Eksigent 100 series of analytical flow rate liquid chromatography products and a new micro flow rate instrument.
The 4500 delivers 10x better sensitivity compared to competitive systems in the same midrange class and is well suited for applications in high-growth applied markets.
The 4500 replaces the 4000 series which is the best-selling mass spectrometer in company history.
The 4500 was just named top new product at Pittcon by Instrument Business Outlook.
Leica Microsystems sales were down slightly in the quarter as solid demand in the life science research and industrial markets in North America and the emerging markets was offset by weakness across Europe.
Beckman Coulter continues to exceed our expectations as DBS continues to make an impact in many facets of the business.
In addition to the progress we've made in terms of quality with the resolution of sodium and glucose we're also making progress in other customer-facing parts of the business.
As we implement DBS across Beckman we've been able to increase our on-time new instruments installations in the U.S.
by more than 20% and reduced unscheduled service calls by close to 15% since the closing last June.
We've also seen a dramatic decrease in past-due schedule maintenance calls which will be closed in June numbered over 2 000 and today are below 200 with the line of sight to an even lower number.
As customers see the progress the improvements are starting to show up in the numbers.
Previously we talked about improvements in the retention and new win rates in November and December of last year.
And the first quarter saw a continuation of those trends resulting in the second consecutive quarter of positive though modest revenue growth.
Operating margins in the quarter improved over 400 basis points year-over-year and represented the best Q1 performance since 2006.
While there's a lot of work ahead we are happy with what the team has accomplished in the past 9 months.
Turning to Dental.
Segment revenues and core revenues increased 1/2 of 1% in the first quarter.
Reported operating margin increased 200 basis points to 12.7% reflecting the actions we have taken to accelerate their profitability.
Dental consumables' core revenues grew slightly in the quarter led by sales for our orthodontic solutions and infection prevention products across most major geographies.
This was largely offset by softness in our general dentistry consumables where we believe our sell-in to distribution partners was less than our sellout.
During the quarter we introduced several new orthodontic products including the Damon Clear passive self-ligating bracket solution for the lower arch.
Customer reaction here has been extremely positive.
Kerr reached a significant milestone during the quarter with the millionth SonicFill shipment.
SonicFill is a first-of-its-kind product that enables clinicians to perform posterior restorations with a fast easy-to-use and reliable bulk fill technology using a sonic activated handpiece.
The technology developed in conjunction with KaVo team has been a tremendous success for Kerr and KaVo exceeding our expectations each step of the way.
KaVo core revenues increased slightly in the quarter with growth in imaging and equipment in North America and Europe offset by weakness in instruments globally.
During the quarter KaVo received recognition for its LUX 550 (sic) [ 540 ] LED light which won the most innovative product in the devices and equipment category as voted on by the recent IDS trade show attendees.
Moving to our Industrial Technologies segments -- segment revenues increased 8.5% for the quarter with core revenues flat.
Our core-operating margin declined 20 basis points in the first quarter with our reported operating margin down 150 basis points to 20.6%.
Product Identification core revenues grew slightly in the quarter led by solid global demand for consumables and Videojet's continuous inkjet printers primarily in Europe and Latin America.
As I mentioned earlier last week we announced a merger agreement with X-Rite headquarters in Grand Rapids Michigan X-Rite manufacturers markets and supports innovative color solutions through measurement systems software color standards and services.
The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions including regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the second quarter of this year.
The acquisition is expected to be dilutive to EPS by approximately $0.03 in 2012 and $0.04 accretive in 2013.
We're excited about the strategic opportunities that lie ahead for Esko and X-Rite and I look forward to sharing more about this opportunity with you in the coming months.
Our Motion businesses' core revenues declined at a high single-digit rate in the quarter with softness in the industrial automation technology and renewable energy markets across most major geographies.
We are encouraged by recent order trends as this was the second quarter in a row where our book to bill has exceeded 1.0.
As a result we expect to resume growth in the second half of the year.
So to wrap up the year started largely as we expected.
We were particularly please with the team's execution which led to excellent core operating margin expansion cash flow and earnings performance and are encouraged by the momentum with which we exited the first quarter.
The sequential improvement within the quarter solid bookings growth and an attractive acquisition environment we believe positions us well for the balance of 2012 and beyond.
We are initiating second quarter diluted EPS from continuing operations guidance of $0.76 to $0.81 for the quarter which includes approximately $0.01 of anticipated dilution from the pending X-Rite acquisition.
The second quarter earnings per share guidance assumes 3% to 5% core revenue growth.
We are nearing -- narrowing our full year diluted EPS guidance from $3.20 to $3.35 to $3.25 to $3.35 which includes $0.03 of anticipated dilution from X-Rite.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal comments.
Agasta we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Shannon O'Callaghan of Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Larry can you fill out the thoughts a little bit on China? You guys have talked about some of the signs you had seen of easing there last -- on the last call.
Have you seen things sort of play out through the quarter and how has that contributed to this overall kind of pickup in orders you've seen through the quarter? Right.
Well I think Shannon China was certainly central to a good bit of what we saw improved during the course of the quarter.
Our book to bill in China in the first quarter was greater than 1.1.
I think that's obviously helpful in terms of our internal metrics.
I'd add to that in a number of businesses Water particularly we saw strengthening through the quarter in our project funnel and I think that's part of what gives us the optimism that some of the external data that we see strengthening like PMI suggested as we go through the year here China should get better.
So we obviously were pleased with what we saw in China.
I wouldn't say by the same token that it was particularly surprising in that regard.
And as we look here I think we'll see strong acceleration in China and we should see China I think in the mid to high single-digit range here straightaway the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> And you said it was flat in 1Q right? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you maybe just talk a little bit about the trajectories on TEK instruments versus Motion? So I think TEK was down like mid single digits in the quarter; Motion high singles.
You said TEK is going to improve through the year.
I mean does that go positive already in 2Q? I know Motion doesn't.
It stays negative.
So can you just talk about I guess the different trajectories and improvement in those 2 businesses? Yes.
I think they will -- both businesses will improve in part because obviously the comps will get easier in both businesses.
And again I think we're seeing encouraging trends both with respect to our internal metrics i.e.
bookings in addition to some of the external data points be it PMI NASDAQ what have you.
That said I think that it's going to take TEK longer to go positive.
I think they'll both be challenged here in the second quarter.
I suspect we'll see Motion go positive in the second half.
It may well be though Shannon I think until the fourth quarter that TEK instruments is positive on the core front.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Larry could you just maybe just give a little bit more color on -- in terms of the full year outlook? Can we -- you gave us obviously a lot of detail back in December but the earnings number have come up by $0.05 at the low end.
But in terms of your businesses or geographies can you just maybe just give a bit more context in terms of what you're seeing right now compared to December? Well I think that what we said in December again I think played out by and large as anticipated here in the first quarter.
I think that as we look forward here Nigel again I think we are encouraged by a number of the bookings trends that we saw particularly in the U.S.
and the emerging markets.
We again saw that spread between the U.S.
and Europe.
This time about 700 basis points.
Obviously we saw Europe soften a bit.
One key point with respect to Europe as we look forward is the second quarter is really the last quarter of last year that we'll be working.
Hence what we saw a mid single-digit growth.
So the European comparisons get a little easier but we're not anticipating any rebound in the underlying market conditions in Europe.
That said I think the U.S.
book-to-bill numbers the sellout -- the sell-in/sellout dynamics our funnels and the like give us optimism that barring some change in the macro scene the U.S.
will continue to be good and strong for us.
If we look at emerging markets x China we're very pleased with what we saw in the first quarter.
We were up high single digits.
And again if that holds as we would suspect it will that in combination with improving China gives us more tailwind out of the emerging markets than we've seen here in the last couple of quarters.
So I think all-in we certainly have a number of dynamics that we're working through.
We talked to TEK.
We talked to Motion a moment ago.
But on balance with what we've seen in Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics very encouraged there.
I think when you look at Product Identification there as well encouraging outlook.
Environmental both within Water and at GVR I think it's going to be getting better as we go through the year.
So barring some sort of cataclysmic macro change we think we're going to continue to see the acceleration we talked about with you in New York in December.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the sell-in versus sellout dynamics have we seen that channel destocking? Would you characterize that as now largely complete or are you still seeing some pressure there? Well I think that where we saw it Nigel probably most pronounced in T&amp;M and in Dental.
I would say that it probably by and large has run its course but I wouldn't want to speak for the network distribution partners that we have around the world.
I think a number of them despite good healthy sell-through in the first quarter continue to take a conservative posture.
That's -- we're going to play the long game here and work with them to make sure they are stocked with products that they need and that we're both generating demand in the marketplace.
But in terms of that continuing at the rate that it has here of late I would find it -- I find that unlikely to be the case.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one more if I may.
Environmental margins were down year-over-year.
Could you just maybe just talk about that? Was that mainly mix? Nigel it's a little bit of mix.
But it was really more investment.
They had a nice step-up.
I mean overall across the segment good step-up in year-on-year gross margin percentage.
We have stepped up some investment there.
Obviously the ballast water is part of that as well.
The margins were obviously relatively flat year-on-year but a lot of that was driven by increased investment.
Research Division</strong> Does that continue through the year? You'll see some improvement in part because we expect growth -- better core growth through the balance of the year but that step-up investment will continue.
Our next question comes from Deane Dray of Citi.
Research Division</strong> On X-Rite I was hoping you could walk through the value proposition of this business both from the color brand management but also a bit more on the technologies.
If I'm not mistaken there's some overlaps with of all businesses Hach in the photo spectrometer side.
Deane you're absolutely right.
We actually -- we're once in the color business back in the old days with Dr.
Lange.
Both Lange and Hach used similar spectrophotometric technology to glean the end [ph] results that their instruments produced.
So it's a space that we know for a long time.
I think that with X-Rite -- or excuse me with Esko our perspective on X-Rite really evolved from it being an attractive opportunity won that just made a ton of sense.
It was the #1 company atop the Esko funnel.
I think from a value perspective for shareholders I think we'd say that this is an attractive $600 million adjacency to what we do within Product Identification good underlying growth.
I think the company clearly is the market leader here.
They have a strong 3 to 4x share lead on competition.
Two great brands in both X-Rite and Pantone.
I think you see all that play out both in the 60% gross margins and the 20% operating margins.
And I think the deal economics are such that we should hit that double-digit return within 3 years probably do better than that as we have at Esko.
So in terms of the space the company the deal we like that.
What X-Rite enables us to do is basically help brand managers throughout their entire supply chain from the time they conceive the packaging for a new soda or a new tube of toothpaste all the way until that packaging is manufactured and sent into the distribution network to not only manage the packaging of thoughtfully only in a digital frame but now add to that the key element of color management.
So whether you talk to a Unilever a Proctor a Coke they see this as a fundamental challenge and opportunity in their business not only with respect to cost savings but often have literally scores of versions of a white a red a yellow but also the complexity as their businesses have globalized in keeping those brands' standards up to the global standard.
So we're off to a great start with Esko.
As you well know this has been a -- this is a strong grower for us from the get-go and I think the opportunity to partner with X-Rite is going to be another good addition to Danaher but also turbo charge what we're doing in Product ID going forward.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then over on the tool side for Apex Tools can you comment on operating results? And I know you have to be a bit guarded in how you comment on the -- both the timing but are you thinking about the opportunities to monetize this asset and what might the timing be? Deane this is Dan.
Off to a good start there.
The combined business posted the best-ever gross margins in their history even on a kind of pro forma basis very good operating margins as well and actually a little bit slow here in Europe but continued good progress in the emerging markets.
We're not going to comment on external rumors.
I think we said from the start we wanted to -- the teams really get after a lot of the cost savings and the go-to-market opportunities that that continues and we'll see what happens over time.
Research Division</strong> But -- is it fair to say that the whole thesis of putting these 2 businesses together is playing out at or above plan? I think we and Cooper could not be happy with the team's execution and the benefit we thought we will achieve by putting the units together.
And they've been a very constructive partner Deane.
Our next question comes from Jon Wood of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Larry can you just give a bit more color on Beckman? Obviously you had some modest growth there better than the flat you talked about.
Can you parse out kind of the core chemistry in immunoassay businesses from the life science's piece? And any expectation on a troponin refiling or change in expectation? We'd love to hear an update there.
Jon let me try to cover a number of those bases.
I think we couldn't be happier just as a headline with where we are.
As you point out from a performance perspective the top line is improving there's no doubt about it.
That is in part a function of I think what we're doing on the quality and the service front.
I'll come to that in a moment.
But obviously we're also seeing I think excellent progress on the cost side.
The -- in terms of the core we were at a low single-digit growth number.
We were not flat.
We'll take that as encouragement.
That's 2 quarters in a row now.
I think the underlying dynamic there really is in and around the retention and the win rates which continue to improve.
What we saw back last year continued through the course of the first quarter.
We were up I think on a retention-rate basis of about 700 basis points say the last 5 months versus the preceding 5 months.
So good traction there just for a whole host of different reasons.
The win rates are improving as well.
So if you think about that as a trajectory I think we're -- we couldn't be more pleased with the recovery in the marketplace and in turn so there is a lag effect to growth in the business.
On the cost side we were really pleased with the way the first quarter played out.
If you go back in time you really have to go back to '06 to see them at 16% at the operating level.
That's more than 400 basis points from where we were a year ago.
Lots of things coming in as we had anticipated.
I think from an integration perspective the reception to Danaher DBS continues to be thoughtful strong just -- as good as it could be.
You talked about the Diagnostics and Life Science split.
We have split the businesses as you know organizationally.
We will be -- once we're in the core growth reporting mode we will report those businesses separately.
But to your question as to how the core growth splits both Dx and Life Sciences were in essence both at that low single-digit rate.
The organizational evolution is part of that; integration continues.
We brought on a new Chief Medical Officer an important and critical hire.
There are a number of other things that we're doing lower down in the organizational chart now that I think bodes well for the future.
And you asked about troponin on the quality and service front I think we continue to see DBS changing the way that we are doing the work there.
Quality clearly is job one.
Very pleased with some of the other assays that I mentioned in the prepared remarks that have been cleared sodium and glucose.
Troponin has been slightly slower but the results have been steady.
The progress good.
And I would expect that while we're not going to try to provide a realtime update on these filings going forward we should be in a good place on troponin very soon.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right very comprehensive.
Services also Jon just if I can just add one final point.
What we're doing on the service side you heard some of the data around: installation performance up 20% from a year ago; unscheduled service calls down 15%; a 90% reduction in past-due maintenance calls.
These are all sorts of things that most Danaher businesses take for granted.
Huge opportunity for us to possibly impact customers in Beckman by way of DBS.
So all in all a long way still to go here.
But 9 months in we're thrilled.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
That was very comprehensive.
My follow-up just quickly on SCIEX.
Did -- up modestly but bookings up mid-teens.
How impactful was the introduction of the 4500 intra-quarter? Meaning did it impact the shipments of kind of that legacy system? And was that the primary driver to the booking strength kind of in the say -- let's call it the second half of March? Or did that not -- did you not start to book actual business from the 4500 in the quarter? Jon the introduction of the 4500 while exciting really isn't a material part of that dynamic.
I would say that really what we saw was strengthening in the order books at SCIEX through the course of the quarter.
Timing's part of the reason you see that book shift delta that we highlighted.
And obviously with a bookings quarter like that in the double digits it gives us a lot of optimism on top of what we introduced at Pittcon.
And hopefully we've got a few things to show at ASMS that as we go through the year we should continue to see AB SCIEX be an important growth driver for the segment and for the corporation.
We'll go next to Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You guys mentioned automation being weak.
You kind of called it out.
You don't usually do that in the 10-Q.
Could you maybe just give us a little bit of color geographically and how bad was it in the quarter for Motion? Well I think that automation -- remember the machine builders that we service at Motion both at Kollmorgen and Thomson have seen build rates in some of the verticals that we serve as we highlighted Steve slow.
I think the build rates are clearly what's impacting our growth in those segments currently -- or in that segment -- those businesses currently.
I think we are heartened by the strengthening in the order book in the book to bill.
But as you well know that's going to really be a second half positive sector on our core growth in those businesses.
So I wouldn't say that it was horrible or disaster anything like that.
But I think coupled with some of the softness that we've seen in China particularly in some of the clean tech verticals there that combination had Motion down in the quarter as we described.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But that automation stuff that's separate from the technology you called out.
They seem like 2 separate kind of discrete end markets you were talking about.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the -- just the China pickup.
I mean is this -- it seems kind of interesting that it's -- it kind of turns on a dime here.
I mean you see one good kind of month of lending come out of China.
I mean do you find it kind of strange that the translation from what you see in kind of the macro data converts that quickly to orders or is there something different going on there? Is it really kind of a loosening or is it just end of destocking? It just seems to kind of have turned on a dime for you at the end of the quarter from flat to up 8.
Yes.
I'm not sure I would characterize China turning on a dime here at quarter's end.
We certainly saw slowing through the second half anticipated a slow but improving start to the year and I think that's on balance what we saw.
I think that we would have anticipated in a few places frankly the business to have done a little bit better.
If I look at Water for example encouraged by the funnel build here but we were down in China in the year or in the quarter against what was not a particularly strong comp.
We talked to Motion.
That's an important dynamic for us in the quarter in China as well as is Tektronix.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
But I guess but flat to up high single digits in the second quarter seems like a pretty significant turn.
It is but part of that is just the calendar.
A lot of what -- a lot of the improvement we're expecting in Q2 we booked in March.
So I mean our order growth rate was much better than our shipment growth rate in China in the first quarter.
So we go in with a fair amount of backlog.
So -- yet from a shipment perspective we're thinking flat to maybe mid to high single.
But from an order perspective it's gotten better but that trajectory not quite as steep if that makes sense.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just one more quick question.
If I do the math on a 3% to 5% organic in the second quarter I'm getting to something like a 20% incremental margin to get to your EPS numbers.
Am I missing something there? And that's x dilution.
I've kind of pulled that out.
So is there some reason why the incrementals are to going to be -- core incrementals are going to be weaker in the second quarter? Steve I'd have to look at -- I'd look at that.
I'd be -- I don't think I'd be surprised if it's that low.
And there could be some -- I don't know if there's any acquisition noise in there.
There may be again -- some with X-Rite.
But I would expect to be more in the 30s but I'd be happy to look at that with you.
Our next question comes from Scott Davis of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Guys I want to get a sense your long-term core growth rate has always been -- your target at least has been 5% plus.
And I went back and looked at the average.
I think since '99 it averages kind of 3.1%.
Since the last 5 or 6 years it's 3.5%.
I mean how much should we care about this? I mean DBS obviously helps a lot of margins but it doesn't seem to be doing much on core growth.
I mean it's -- you spent a fair amount on R&amp;D.
I mean is this something that becomes an increasing focus as time goes on or just the nature of kind of your business model? You have to bring in assets like Beckman and kind of slow down growth to fix things and that's just kind of what we should expect is this 3% to 4% rather than a 5% to 6% or something.
How do you think about that? Scott I would for one not accept and wouldn't allow anyone on the payroll to accept 3% to 4% core growth through the cycle on a core basis for this portfolio.
I mean we certainly have -- I think as you look across the business stem to stern a strong set of businesses.
Clearly new businesses are going to come in.
They're not going to be performing at a peak level.
But that said I think we're a mid single-digit-plus grower through the cycle with the businesses that we have.
And anything we bring in will be brought in to strengthen our ability to grow let alone generate margin expansion returns for shareholders.
So I would argue that DBS has positive impact on business top and bottom line on the balance sheet as well.
This is a quarter perhaps with the headline number though it being I think what we had talked about for some time working against the highest growth quarter from a year ago it's not a headline we relish putting out there.
But that said I think as we look at the underlying trends of the businesses whether we look at book to bill and backlogs whether we look at how we're performing in our markets some of these issues around the channel dynamics at the start of the year I think we feel very good about the acceleration that we talked about.
The comps do get easier.
That's an element to be sure.
But there's no reason you should lower your expectations.
I'm not lowering my expectations with respect to what we can do through the cycle.
Research Division</strong> No that's a very fair answer.
Just getting back to your point on the sell-in versus the sellout.
It seems like kind of a common theme in this call that your distributors were taking down some inventory.
But what if -- why was that exactly? I mean is it product cycle? Is it -- it was just kind of timing? I mean how -- what's the common theme there? Well I think that they're -- I think it's hard to characterize what we saw Scott in 2 very different markets T&amp;M on one hand Dental in another with 2 or 3 truly common denominators.
I think that said we saw I think in a number of places at the end of last year despite good sellout a cautious position on inventory on the part of a number of our partners all managed businesses that carried into this year again despite some of the strength that we were seeing at that counter and elsewhere on a sell-through basis.
I think that corrects itself.
It has to.
So I'm heartened by the sell-through.
The inventory adjustments that we've taken in the short-term perhaps created a little pressure.
But I think you take the long view here we want to be working with partners who are growing at or above market.
We want to be their core or their key supply partners and I think we're in that position.
Again part of the rationale part of the logic that gives us the confidence to say as we move forward here we'll benefit from that pickup at that readjustment if you will on the top line.
Research Division</strong> So just as a quick follow-up Larry.
I mean when you think about the evolution of Danaher over time I mean does it become more important that you compensate managers for core growth kind of going forward given the size of the asset base you have now or not? I mean I -- not knowing exactly how you compensate everybody.
But when you think about it does that become a greater emphasis over time that "Hey look.
This is -- these are the assets we have and we need to grow them.
We need to gain share.
We need to grow them and 4% aren't going to get it done." So how do you compensate people to kind of do that to accelerate that? Scott big important topic.
Let me simply say this.
Yes we have been increasing the weighting of core in our comps gains.
And we'll continue to do that not because we want to be a 5% to 7% versus the 4% to 5%.
But the fact of the matter is these businesses that are part of the Danaher portfolio the bets that we have made are growth businesses and growth markets right.
So this is not a Danaher of a different time where some might reflect was simply a margin play.
I don't think it was true then but it's certainly not the case today.
And we need to make sure that we are growing these businesses in order to perpetuate the leadership positions that they enjoy in their markets.
If their market share as good as we think and the businesses are strong and get stronger we should be delivering numbers more in line with what I think your expectations are pretty much in line with my own.
We'll go next to Steven Winoker of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Larry can you just maybe start with the math on the $5 billion given about almost $3 billion of cash free cash flow that you're looking at? How are you -- just walk me through me the math on why it's not a bigger number at this point.
Well I think we talked about at least capacity of at least $5 billion.
That's on top of X-Rite which is at over $600 million.
So that's roughly 2 years of current cash flow and the math is not any more complicated than that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of your willingness to borrow or drive the balance sheet any harder I mean we obviously -- you see that in select situations.
Have you -- has your thinking changed on that front at all? Well I mean clearly we've gotten bigger.
Our cash flow has gotten larger.
Our ability to borrow more under our current credit rating increases and we would expect that to continue.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then back to the core growth question.
Just a couple.
One clarification.
If I just comped on number of days versus a year ago was that taking off about 1.5% or 1% or 1.5% in terms of how you think about the core growth numbers you just put up? Steve we had the same number of shipping days both Q1.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no impact on that front.
That's right.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And then the NPVI number is still hovering 29% right or around high 20s? You're talking about vitality new products kind of sales? LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And I guess the question there is what -- if you think about this over time as indicative we're going through quarter after quarter of constant drumbeat of new product introductions.
That as year by year goes by we're -- I'm expecting to see those start to gain a lot more traction.
Is that -- are you -- what -- how do you think about that number? And I'm looking for other ways to think about core growth and traction on that from DBS et cetera to some of the earlier comments made and wondering if that's not a decent way to think about it.
Well I think it's one important piece of the puzzle Steve.
But I think there are a whole host of factors innovation new products is one.
Obviously the success of what we do from a sales marketing and service perspective another.
And what we're able to do out of the factory in terms of quality delivery is a third.
That are parts of that mosaic that we are executing well on the right things could allow us to grow at or above market rates.
So I wouldn't want to get too fixated on any one input in that regard.
I really do think it takes a broad integrated effort to drive the share gains that we see at a place like Videojet or ChemTreat that we've seen over the last several years.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And you think 30% is roughly the right number? Or are you not sort of -- even though it's only one metric as you mentioned you're not sort of thinking that that thing should be 35% to 40%? I think I we would always like to take numbers like those that you believe in your gut are correlated with growth and share up.
But that number -- the right number for certain businesses will be higher than it will be for others right.
You take a business like Leica Micro or Tektronix where product life cycles are a little shorter maybe the competitive intensity is a bit more than we might see elsewhere they need to be at a higher number.
Likewise if you look at some of say the Water businesses be it Hach Lange with a high consumable stream or ChemTreat the new product or the vitality ratio there is not likely to be that high in part just because of the way you do the math if you're being honest about it.
Obviously we would be.
So I think we try to calibrate those sorts of metrics business by business.
So the -- no one business goes off chasing a corporate mandate or trying to clear a corporate bar that isn't appropriate to the context of the market they compete in.
We'll go next to Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
A lot of ground covered.
Let me just be quick 1 or 2 items.
U.S.
muni Larry can you give a little more color on what you're seeing there? And is this kind of -- there's some random projects that have started to hit or are you actually seeing -- ground swell's maybe too strong a word but some true pickup on underlying activity? Jeff I would say it's more underlying activity than big projects per se being let.
So we will see that most positively at Hach again because that's more of a razor blade's model as you know there.
Conversely that will pinch us a bit over time at Trojan as those big projects are slowing.
And your visibility on China muni I think you said orders picking up.
You have pretty good visibility on when those actually get let and move forward or is it still just kind of order activity and pipeline building? Well I would say that we have good visibility there Jeff with respect to projects.
Again given the selling cycle given the way the municipalities plan these efforts and when initial planning commences compared to when we actually ship product there's a good -- there's a bit of time there.
The challenge is really applying historical practice and trends to that funnel and trying to anticipate when orders will be let.
I think through the back half of last year and even here early in the year we've just seen certain projects get pushed a bit more than we would have anticipated more than we have seen historically.
So I think that's why we're particularly heartened with the book to bill there.
So we're seeing these funnels improve.
That's good.
Seeing a north of one of book to bill even better.
So that's the way I would describe it.
It's certainly better visibility than we have in some other businesses but it's been a little noisy say in the last 6 to 9 months.
And then just finally maybe for Dan.
Price play any role in the organic growth number this quarter? There's a little bit over half a point.
Q1 is often a little bit light for us in price.
I think that will get a little bit better.
Again we're getting pretty good price on consumables though it's relatively flat on equipment and instruments.
We'll go next to Jon Groberg with Macquarie Capital.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First is just a clarification.
Larry you gave organic growth or kind of core growth expectations for 2Q.
And I may have missed it but for the full year there's no change to your core growth outlook.
Is that right? That's right.
That's right Jon.
Okay.
And then Larry if I think about Europe all of the danger that Europe is not one country right but if I look at Europe I'd say it's a little -- if I see the results coming out of your business it's not exactly what I would expect things like SCIEX and Leica Microsystems down PID up.
Can you maybe just talk about what's -- what you see happening in Europe and maybe how that's trended over the last few months just given everything that we read in here over there and maybe your interpretation of what's happening? Well I was in Europe this week.
I'm not sure that having been there recently gives me any truly unique perspective Jon.
I think things are simply sluggish in a whole host of places.
We can I think understand what happened at Leica and SCIEX again.
While softening we are heartened by some of the leading indicators.
But that said probably the best thing we have going for us right now in Europe is the simple fact that the comparisons get easier as we get into the second half.
We say goodbye to these mid single-digit growth quarters that we saw last year and that will help what we print.
But while we're not I think unduly pessimistic about Europe I don’t think we harbor any illusions about the underlying economy particularly in those places where it's soft bouncing back dramatically as we go through 2012.
And Jon as you point out it's not soft across the board.
We were talking about the muni business and the Water business in the U.S.
Actually we had a good first quarter in our municipal business in Europe.
You mentioned Videojet still decent growth Radiometer as well.
So we still have some key businesses that are performing reasonably well in Europe.
So it's not soft everywhere.
So outside of just broadly you said being sluggish it's not like you can look over the last 3 or 4 months trends in any particular businesses or orders that are going on that you can draw some conclusion about.
You just kind of expect broadly sluggish just across all the businesses.
Q1 played out very much as we expected which is consistent sequentially from Q4 kind of the normal seasonality.
Some business is soft and some businesses still posting pretty good numbers.
But Jon to Dan's point I mean rest assured from an operating perspective whether you cut it by company whether you cut it by country it doesn't mean those teams all get to take a pass on '12 right.
There are countries where we see particular businesses Dan highlighted a few good examples where there are opportunities we should be able to grow.
And at a minimum you're always able to grab share.
But when you roll it all up obviously Europe is going to be the challenge for us from a geographic perspective this year.
Okay.
And then just if I can quickly on Dental.
For first quarter it looks like all-time high margins and pretty good improvement year-over-year.
Is that just -- I know you've been focusing on that.
Is that sustainable where we're at or there are some particular onetime items in the quarter? How do you think about the margins there? They were not -- Jon they were not onetime items.
We got off to a very good start.
We had a very good Q4 that was masked from a reporting perspective because of all the restructuring we did.
I just saw that play out nicely in the first quarter and if you look at that segment and you would add back the amortization we actually grew up from an operating -- through operating profit perspective we're north of 15% in the quarter.
So off to a good start and think we can sustain that.
We have time for one more question.
That will come from Richard Eastman of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> And congrats on the X-Rite acquisition.
I think that is going to look very good on Videojet and Esko.
Just in terms of the Test &amp; Measurement business and I guess when I look at the distribution channel itself are you very comfortable that there's no share gain or loss going on in the distribution channel on the instrument side of Test &amp; Measurement in particular at TEK given this -- the sell-in is lower than the sell-through? And Dental I would think you'd have a better perspective given the channel there is more concentrated more consolidated.
But are you comfortable that there's no share gains or losses in the channel on the instrument side in T&amp;M? Yes.
I think if we look at T&amp;M and when we talk about this dynamic we're talking about both Fluke and TEK you're going to have puts and takes in any one month any one quarter.
But I think if we look at the last year or 2 in those businesses I don't see it.
I know some others may suggest otherwise.
But I think if we look at those businesses particularly with the new product momentum that we think we'll generate going through the year what we're doing to generate brand preference let alone broad end-user demand we're doing good work there.
And I think as we go through the year again barring change in the macro environment that will present itself more than it has here in the first quarter in our top line numbers.
And I think in Dental the same dynamic applies.
I didn't mean to leave them out.
Research Division</strong> No that's fine.
And then also just within the T&amp;M business and the instrument piece is it fair to say -- is the tone of business and the book to bill was it greater than one in China and the tone of business strong -- or kind of maybe turning in China versus Europe? Have we seen the bottom in the T&amp;M side? I'm sorry Rick.
You're talking about the T&amp;M in China have we seen bottom? Research Division</strong> Within the instrument businesses within the T&amp;M business so really Tektronix and Fluke.
Are we -- have we seen the bottom in Europe? And conversely is the tone of business turned in China? I'm just trying to distinguish between geographies there? Rick overall our book to bill was nicely north of one for instrument in the first quarter.
I'm not sure I have that broken down geographically.
It's obviously encouraging given we had a sub-one in the fourth quarter to see that go north of one in the first quarter is a good sign.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just Dan real quickly.
Just one question on CapEx.
CapEx in the quarter looked significantly high.
Does that back off this year or is that a good numbering? That's really the dynamic of Beckman and the leasing model.
Research Division</strong> I see okay.
Okay.
So as we see growth there that number will spike up some? Yes.
And Mr.
McGrew I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks for joining us everybody.
Dan and I are around today for follow-ups.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Debbie and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference.
[Operator Instructions] Just a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
And now I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call our second quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investor section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information and subheading Quarterly Earnings and will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investor section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain available till our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until Thursday July 26.
Replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the access code is 1304801.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the earnings release Form 10-Q and other materials previously referenced for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
In these remarks and accompanying presentation all references to earnings revenues and other company specific financial metrics relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's businesses unless otherwise noted.
We will also make some forward-looking statements on today's call including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
It's possible that actual results might differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
Any additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events development or otherwise.
With that I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks and good morning everyone.
We were pleased by the sequential improvement in our core growth and our strong operating margin and cash flow performance in the quarter.
Despite the macro headlines we grew 3.5% organically in the quarter and the team did an outstanding job on the execution front with an 80 basis points of year-over-year core operating margin expansion a 31% year-over-year increase in free cash flow and a 31% growth in EPS.
We continue to focus our efforts on capturing market share driven by DBS as well as our investments in innovation.
Videojet ChemTreat Leica Biosystems Esko Kerr Arbor Networks and Radiometer are among the businesses where we believe we have taken market share during the quarter.
Geographically the U.S.
largely continued its strong start to 2012 with our Q2 revenues growing mid-single digits though we did see some pockets of weakness as we exited the quarter.
In Western Europe our sales were flat in the quarter which by and large resonates with the headlines.
China was mixed but flat in the quarter.
The bright spot in China for us has been healthcare with both our Dental and Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics businesses growing double digits in the quarter.
The rest of the emerging markets remained strong and also grew at a double-digit rate.
We remain active and optimistic on the M&amp;A front.
Through the first 6 months we've deployed nearly $1 billion of capital on 8 acquisitions primarily in our Industrial Environmental and Test &amp; Measurement segments.
Even taking into account the capital we deployed on these transactions we still expect to have more than $5 billion of M&amp;A capacity over the next 2 years.
Turning to details of the quarter.
Today we reported record second quarter diluted net earnings per share of $0.84 a 31% increase as compared to our diluted net EPS last year.
The current period includes a $0.03 benefit from a lower-than-anticipated income tax rate and a gain from resolving a contingency related to a prior asset disposal.
Revenues for the quarter increased 25% to $4.6 billion with core revenues up 3.5%.
The impact of acquisitions primarily the addition of Beckman Coulter increased revenues by 25% while currency translation reduced sales by 3.5%.
Our gross margin for the second quarter was 51.7%.
Our reported operating margin expanded 100 basis points year-over-year to 17.8%.
Second quarter operating cash flow was $1 billion a 31.5% increase year-over-year.
Free cash for the first half of 2012 was $1.5 billion up 31% and our free cash to net income conversion ratio for the first half was a robust 131%.
Particularly in these uncertain economic times DBS's impact on cash flow growth serves us very well.
And finally our tax rate in the second quarter was 22.5% as compared to 24.3% for the second quarter last year.
The lower rate reflects the impact of a discrete tax benefit resulting from the expiration of a statute of limitations on an uncertain tax position as well as the cumulative cash [ph] effect of a lower estimated tax rate for the full year which together benefited EPS by $0.02 in the quarter.
We continue to expect an effective tax rate of about 24% for the balance of the year.
Turning to our 5 operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement segment revenues and core revenues increased 1% for the quarter.
Core operating margin for the second quarter decreased 85 basis points while reported operating margin declined 90 basis points to 21.5%.
Our Instruments business' core revenue declined mid-single digits in the quarter.
At Fluke core revenues were down slightly with growth in the U.S.
distribution channel more than offset by weak demand in other geographies particularly China.
In the quarter Fluke received 2 Gold Medal awards from Industrial Design Excellence for our new clamp meter family.
During the quarter as well we acquired U.K.-based IRIS to enhance our R&amp;D capabilities in our core thermography lines.
At Tektronix core sales declined high single digits in the quarter with continued softness in China and Europe offset somewhat by strength in Latin America and in our service business.
Core revenues from our communications businesses grew mid-teens in the quarter with continued healthy demand from wireless carriers in both North America and Europe with Tektronix Communications' network management solutions.
At Arbor Networks we continue to see solid demand for our network security solutions as DdoS and Internet security remains strategic concerns for our customers as they seek solutions to prevent and defend against cyber attacks.
During the quarter Fluke Networks launched the multi-fiber Pro-Tool for automatic testing of fiber cables and the TS PRO series for carrier field technician's voice data and video testing.
While demand should remain solid in the second half of the year core growth rates in our communications businesses are expected to moderate due to difficult prior-year comparisons.
During the quarter we acquired VSS Monitoring a San Mateo California-based provider of network monitoring switches and technology using next-generation ultrahigh-speed network probes.
Network monitoring switches service to front end for monitoring and securing networks by selectively segregating and directing traffic allowing telecom service providers and enterprise IT professionals to more effectively manage even the largest networks.
In Environmental revenues increased 4.5% in the quarter with core revenues up 6%.
The segment core operating margin increased 55 basis points in the second quarter with reported operating margin essentially flat due to the dilutive effect of recent acquisitions.
Water Quality core revenues increased at a mid-single-digit rate led by solid growth in North America.
At Hach demand continued to be healthy for our core lab and process instrumentation position the company's initiatives to expand its service business to help drive double-digit year-to-date growth in that category.
ChemTreat continues to execute extremely well with the second quarter marking their eighth quarter in a row of double-digit core revenue growth.
Their sustained outperformance can be attributed to their best-in-class go-to-market initiatives as well as their commitment to innovation on behalf of their customers.
They recently launched an environmentally friendly starch-based solution known as Green DTAC [ph] to help customers reduce sludge buildup in their systems resulting in lower maintenance costs higher uptime and reduced waste removal charges.
As some of you may recall from our Investor Day last December we highlighted Trojan's new UVSigna system which makes conversion to ultraviolet disinfection easier for customers by reducing the footprint simplifying maintenance and lowering the total cost of ownership.
During the quarter we shipped our first system to a U.S.
municipality and continue to see robust order activity for this new product.
Trojan is also continuing validation work on its Ballast Water Treatment solution and during the quarter shipped its first system.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's core revenues grew high single digits led by solid demand for dispensers payment solutions and environmental monitoring systems.
In particular payment solution sales increased low double digits in the quarter with strong sales of EMV security upgrades for credit and debit cards in North America.
During the quarter we acquired Catlow a manufacturer of nozzles and other hanging hardware to enhance GVR's vapor recovery capabilities while also strengthening our alternative fuel dispensing solutions.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
Revenue for the quarter increased 124.5% largely due to the 2011 addition of Beckman Coulter.
Core revenues were up 5% and include one week of Beckman Coulter revenues which were not material to the overall core growth rates in the quarter.
Core operating margin for the segment was up 165 basis points while our reported operating margin increased 820 basis points from the prior year to 13.1%.
Diagnostics continued their solid performance with high single-digit core growth in the quarter.
The Radiometer core sales increased at a high single-digit rate with broad-based growth in all major geographies led by the emerging markets.
China grew in excess of 25% with particularly robust uptake of our AQT system following regulatory approval late last year.
Leica Biosystems increased at a low double-digit rate led by advanced staining which was up more than 20% while the core histology business rebounded at a high single-digit rate.
All major geographies saw growth in the quarter with particular strength in China the emerging markets and North America.
At Beckman Coulter we've been exceptionally pleased with the first year progress as DBS continues making an impact on many facets of the business including quality while setting the stage for future growth and improving the cost structure.
Quality remains a critical priority for us at Beckman.
We continue to focus on the quality system itself and on product quality.
On that front I'm pleased to report that we have received FDA premarket approval for the Class III Prostate Health Index assay a simple noninvasive blood test.
It's 2.5x more specific in detecting prostate cancer than PSA alone in patients.
The accuracy of the test also benefits patients by reducing the number of unnecessary prostate biopsies.
This was the third consecutive quarter of low single-digits Diagnostics revenue growth.
We also continue to be encouraged by our retention and win rates as well as the success we've seen with new product launches including the AU 5800 series and the phi assay.
We've made tremendous progress on the cost side over the last year and since the acquisition our operating margin has increased more than 400 basis points.
This week we attended the American Association of Clinical Chemistry meeting in California where the overall tone was outstanding.
A number of customers commented to the team about improvements they've seen over the past year particularly with respect to lower unplanned service visits and other key metrics with respect to service quality.
While there's still a lot of work ahead we're happy with what the team has accomplished in their first year with Danaher and my thanks go out to everyone at Beckman who has contributed to the success.
In Life Sciences we saw low single-digit revenue growth in the quarter.
AB SCIEX's core sales grew modestly in the quarter against what was their highest growth quarter in the prior year.
We continue to see strong growth in China and the emerging markets offset by weakness in the U.S.
and Japan.
For those of you that joined us last month in Toronto at our Investor Day you saw firsthand DBS's impact on new product development at AB SCIEX.
At ASMS in June they debuted the new 6500 series the world's most sensitive triple quad system designed for complex analysis including drug discovery and development in regulated labs peptide quantitation and biomarker verification.
They also enhanced the TripleTOF family introducing the 5600 series for routine analysis and the 5600+ for more complex analysis.
Customer feedback on all new products has been exceptional.
In particular the 6500 has been particularly well received with significant orders booked in the second quarter even though the product doesn't begin shipping until here in the third quarter.
Leica Microsystems core sales were up mid-single digits in the quarter with strength in China and the emerging markets across most product categories.
Late in the second quarter we launched the SP8 confocal microscope a truly innovative solution developed using extensive VOC from Life Science researchers.
The SP8 allows a researcher to start with an entry-level confocal and to move up in a modular way to increase the functionality of the system as the research process requires and as funding becomes available.
Here too initial customer feedback has been excellent.
In Dental core revenues increased 5% in the first quarter.
We have outstanding traction in the margin front with core operating margins up 325 basis points and reported operating margin increasing 350 basis points to 14.4%.
We are extremely pleased with our first half Dental performance.
Dental consumables core revenues grew mid-single digits in the quarter led by sales for our general dentistry consumables infection-prevention products and orthodontic solutions across all major geographies.
Damon Clear our aesthetic self-ligating orthodontic brackets grew double digits in the quarter.
Dental equipment core revenues were up low single digits in the quarter.
We saw strength in imaging up double digits with healthy demand for our intraoral sensors along with a solid uptake of our combo 2D/3D imaging product which has now been rolled out globally across all of our major brands.
During the quarter we also launched the Helios 1800 LED energy-efficient light which builds off an existing platform with an entry-level solution in the key LED category.
In Industrial Technologies total revenues were up 0.5% while core revenues were up 1% for the quarter.
Our core operating margin increased 105 basis points in the second quarter with our reported operating margin up 60 basis points to 22.4%.
Product Identification core revenues grew mid-single digits in the quarter with growth across most major geographies including the U.S.
China and Latin America.
Sales of our CIJ printers were particularly healthy growing mid-teens globally.
During the quarter we launched the Willett 630 CIJ printer designed in China for the Chinese market.
Customer enthusiasm has been high there with orders for over 500 units in the first couple of months.
During the quarter we closed our previously announced acquisition of X-Rite.
While still in the early days we're off to a great start with the team embracing DBS and exploring opportunities to lever our global network of PID brands.
Last month both X-Rite and Esko exhibited at drupa the world's largest printing and packaging trade show.
Esko introduced new hardware at the show as well as its next-generation software suite for design and preproduction.
Esko Suite 12 is packed with new functionality including richer 3D capabilities and better workflow automation to help print and packaging customers drive efficiency.
Customer response to Esko's new products was extremely favorable helping to drive mid-single-digit core growth in the quarter.
In Motion core revenues declined at a high single-digit rate in the quarter with softness in industrial automation technology and renewable energy markets across most major geographies.
We expect the rate of year-over-year core sales decline to improve as we move forward for the balance of the year in part due to easier year-over-year comparisons.
So to wrap up we are quite pleased with our growth earnings and cash flow performance.
While the team continues to execute well the uncertain macro environment suggests to us that it's prudent to accelerate cost actions which will help us protect and maintain our growth investments.
We now anticipate spending approximately $100 million this year on restructuring activities about double our previous plan.
We believe our focus on capturing market share while taking these actions coupled with our optimism and capacity on the acquisition front positions as well for the balance of 2012 and beyond.
We are initiating third quarter diluted net EPS from continuing operations guidance of $0.74 to $0.79.
We are also updating our full year diluted net EPS guidance from $3.25 to $3.35 to $3.19 to $3.26.
The midpoint of our revised EPS guidance would result in approximately 14% year-over-year EPS growth compared to last year adjusted EPS of $2.83.
The reduction in the full year guidance is primarily attributable to the accelerated restructuring activities and the anticipated negative currency impact from the recent strengthening of the dollar partially offset by the $0.03 benefit in the second quarter.
We are assuming second half core revenue growth will be in line with what we achieved in the first half of this year.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal conference.
We are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first today to Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe give us some better or some additional clarity? I guess one on how were the demand pattern shifting through the quarter itself? Did you see continued acceleration or deceleration into -- through June? And then secondly when you think about the second half core growth in line with the first half maybe give us some more color by business about how you're seeing it and what you're seeing either in inventory or other indicators that are leading you to the conservatism other than sort of just macro indicators.
Yes.
I would say -- Steve maybe a couple of thoughts here.
I think with respect to the first part of your question what we saw say by business in the quarter I think we saw 3 to 5 businesses fundamentally in line with what we thought we would see during the quarter with Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics up slightly and Industrial Tech slightly below.
I think again as we saw the quarter play out I think we were very encouraged with the strength of the overall quarter as we look around the business.
But certainly during the quarter I think we saw some things that give us some pause and obviously have us thinking about the environment here with the acceleration of the cost actions.
I think as we think about the second half certainly we saw in June I think some signs that the second half may play out a little bit differently than we had anticipated originally.
Certainly the China rebound I think we were anticipating as others were is going to come; it's probably just not going to come in the time frame that we had anticipated here in the second half.
Certainly Motion and T&amp;M are not rebounding in the way that we had anticipated or had hoped.
Now there's an obvious intersection there between Motion and T&amp;M and the China softness.
Clearly there's -- I think there's more uncertainty today in and around some of the life science funding dynamics.
And even in the U.S.
where we've had another I think exceptionally strong quarter we saw some if you will hairline fractures in certain businesses that just have us on alert.
I think that coupled with the headlines which there are very view positive macro headlines out there globally right now I think give us the impetus here from a topside perspective to say hey the risks are to the downside.
Let's take note of the fact we're having a very good year from an earnings from a cash perspective.
But let's proactively even though the businesses probably have a slightly more optimistic outlook for the second half go ahead and set the stage to take advantage of the year that we're having to take the cost actions in order to protect our growth environments if the environment does continue to slide here a bit.
I think with respect to the quarter the third quarter here and the current view Steve is that we'll be fundamentally in line with what we saw in the first half so call that 2.5 3.
And as you think about the fourth probably more in line here with what we just printed call it 3 3.5 on the core side.
And if you looked at it by -- Steve maybe by segment just quickly we'd be looking at 4 of the 5 segments being up low single to mid-single with the exception being T&amp;M where we would expect that to be down.
It's not that the instrument business is getting worse but as we alluded that the communications business is not going to sustain its double-digit growth it's had here in the first half in part because of the comp issues.
So we could see T&amp;M down kind of low single digit to mid-single digit here in the third quarter.
And as kind of Larry alluded to are the numbers from our businesses would be higher than that.
So most -- some of our segments where we're telling you we think it's low single to mid-single in some of our businesses with their numbers they were all up to more of a mid-single-digit point of view.
So I think we're taking again a little bit of a top level perspective and adjustment here given the macro environment given the few things we've seen here of late.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like there's contingency built into that is what you're saying right in terms of roll up versus the top down view? That is -- that's the right way to look at it yes.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly the T&amp;M margin pressure is that mostly operating leverage? Yes.
As you know as we've talked about T&amp;M is our highest gross margin segment and obviously that's hurting us here.
And we will see that impact again here in the third quarter and you'll see a step-down sequentially in our margins Q2 to Q3 in T&amp;M.
We'll take our next question from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give us a little bit of an update on the -- in integration and maybe how the instrument placements are going from a top line perspective? I assume you're talking about Beckman Steve? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Beckman yes.
Yes I'm sorry.
A year in here I think we're very pleased with where we are as we highlighted in some of the prepared remarks.
Now certainly the primary objective there has been quality.
I think we've made a lot of progress.
You just see that in the reinspections and the new product approvals and just a lot of the internal metrics that we look at on a weekly basis.
With respect to growth and clearly we're encouraged here with the low single-digit growth in Diagnostics that we're going to print or allude to here it's not yet part of the core for 3 quarters in a row I think that speaks to this business really getting back up on its feet no silver bullet there Steve but just a lot of different actions being taken to improve service levels certainly the quality improvements help.
And I think that coupled with the new product introductions the investments that we're making in our sales and marketing organizations has us encouraged that this is a business that once fully up on its feet will be a real contributor to Danaher's overall core growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just within the businesses I mean you mentioned some I guess you used the term hairline fractures I mean.
And anything more specific than that you're seeing in your short cycle businesses? And then how have things kind of started off here in July? Well Steve I would say that July is very much in line with what we were anticipating here so we're encouraged by that.
A little hard to read at least the U.S.
given the 4th of July holiday falling in the middle of the week.
But with respect to what we were talking about in the second quarter in the U.S.
I think we saw some signs in and around Life Sciences certainly in T&amp;M and to a lesser degree in Environmental where even businesses like -- even some of the businesses that we're printing very good numbers here just had a little bit of softness a little bit of say a forecast miss here or there where we were seeing customers hesitate to write POs in other cases projects being pushed out a little more than we would have anticipated.
I think if we weren't so mindful of the headlines and the drumbeat of negative news it might be easier to say hey well that -- those are just -- that's just noise.
But again I think we're going to exercise a level of prudence here and to say hey the risks probably are to the downside.
Let's go ahead and take some proactive actions here that are the right things for the business so that we continue to make the longer-term investments for the corporation.
Research Division</strong> And then one last question.
Is there anything in the portfolio rationalization side where you guys are still -- you're opportunistic in selling things? Is there anything that's out there that you're looking at that could either fund further acquisition on the balance sheet but also maybe just a timing issue where you could ultimately offset this restructuring cost in the ForEx headwind with gains in the back half? I know you don't play that game but I'm not sure if there's anything you're looking at left in the portfolio that's kind of noncore.
Steve I think well obviously we've done a fair amount of pruning the last couple years.
And given our joint venture with Cooper soon to be heating [ph] with the tools -- on the tools front a business that had a very good second quarter and in fact sequentially.
So as revenues rise $25 million and with terrific fall-through hits $25 million sequential increase in revenues and a $10 million increase in OP sequentially Q1 to Q2 I mean that's something that obviously down the road under the right situation could be something that could be used for acquisition proceeds.
We'll go next to Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Dan if you could maybe -- or Larry if you just talk about the CAGR [ph] cadence.
You've given some good detail already.
But it looks like 2% to 3% for the second half of the year is your planned assumption but your comps go much easier in 4Q.
So I'm wondering how does 3Q look in your plan relative to the 4Q.
And if you could maybe just then pass into that the impact of Beckman Coulter rolling to the numbers in the second half of the year.
Yes.
Nigel to be clear I think that what we're going to see here in the third is a slight downtick from where we were in the second.
So call that 2.5 3 given what we know today.
I think we would see near the fourth quarter step up from that call it to 3 3.5.
But you're kind of in a band where the first half is going to be in line with the second half.
Beckman does kick in.
It kicked in for a week but that was just -- it's not meaningful in the second quarter.
It kicks in here obviously -- here forward and has an ever so slight dilutive effect.
But at this point given the performance that we're seeing there it's not much to call out.
So I think what we're looking at -- again I think in light of what we're seeing or not seeing in China certainly the softness at T&amp;M in particular in China and elsewhere and just some concerns about the way the macro environment plays out in the second half has us putting that outlook together but one in which we think we can drive good market share gains in.
Research Division</strong> And then -- I mean it doesn't sound like there's much changing just from your comments but you talked about some hairline fractures.
But the quarter you're flat in Europe.
You're flat in China.
I mean is the decision to restructure is it driven more by what you see in the macro side or is that a bit more within the businesses maybe some of the book-to-bill ratios in June that caused you to launch this program? Nigel it's a judgment call.
So admittedly it's hard to describe for you how much of it is a view of what we're seeing internally how much of it is a function of what we see out the window here.
But I think all -- and even though the comps do get easier China is going to take a while to rebound.
I think the political dynamics there are probably more pronounced than we had perhaps anticipated.
That said they're clearly engaging.
Europe is what it is and the U.S.
has been quite strong for us.
But I think we want to make sure that come what may around the world we're still in a position to make the growth investments in the second half of this year the first half of next year admits that uncertainty so that we're driving the company forward over the long haul.
That's the way we've always managed.
We'd like to think this is a prudent approach some may call it conservative.
That's fine to our ears.
I think at the end of the day that if things are better we'll obviously print better numbers.
But given what we know today and don't I think this is the right thing to do.
Research Division</strong> And just on the 3Q guidance does the bulk of the $0.06 delta on restructuring come within 3Q? No it's more heavily weighted to the fourth quarter.
What you're seeing in the third quarter is primarily an FX dynamic.
The euro kind of peaked this time last year.
The year-on-year we have about a $0.05 headwind.
And then actually even sequentially we have about a $0.02 headwind between Q2 and Q3 given the dollar really didn't begin to strengthen significantly until June.
That coupled with -- of the expectation slightly lower growth sequentially and some restructuring frames up the guide here for Q3.
We'll go next to Jon Wood with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Larry can you just tighten up perhaps the view on Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics for the year? You initially offered 3% to 7%.
Is it possible to get a bit better view on how that business shakes out for all of 2012 at this point? Yes.
I think that what we're clearly seeing there Jon is the softening in the spending drivers particularly with respect to some of the government-funded dynamics.
I think particularly as we look at some of our big ticket products the new products which is SCIEX and Leica I think we're encouraged by those product launches probably hurt us a little bit both with the new mass specs out of SCIEX and Leica with the new confocal given the timing.
I know we hung some customers up here in the second quarter as they were evaluating and in turn placing orders on the new products shipments obviously to come.
But I don't think the new product launches are going to be pronounced enough for us not to see some softening in the core in Life Sciences.
So I still think Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics as a whole probably will be one of our leading segments from a growth perspective.
But Diagnostics will clearly be the better performing business of the 2 as we look at the second half.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
That's good color.
And I mean thanks for the update on Beckman.
Just if you look to the back half and obviously with the troponin submissions already in the FDA assuming that goes according to plan I mean is it at the point where we can kind of rule out the flat number for Beckman diagnostics? And would you expect that business to accelerate in 2013 just given what you know today? Well certainly I think we've got a lot of the things within our control getting better every day and that's obviously helpful.
There's still some factors where we're working with others to improve our ability to grow.
But I think at this point Jon as we look at next year I think low singles is probably what makes sense with respect to expectations with mid-singles being certainly within reach for 2014.
We'll go next to Scott Davis with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about some of the deals you did this quarter? And you did 8 but really all we really know about is X-Rite and it seems like a pretty active deal book.
Just in context and maybe what type of multiples you're seeing are they deals that are easy bolt-ons or generally accretive or dilutive? I mean just a little bit of color around that.
I think that by and large Scott we would characterize the other deals here absent X-Rite as really bolt-ons where we're bringing on capability bringing on distribution resources that bolt on in a clear close strategic way to existing businesses.
I mentioned a couple in the prepared remarks.
Certainly within TEK Comms where we've seen tremendous growth VSS gives us tremendous capacity to continue the monitoring capability that TEK Comms does for the wireless carriers.
These network switches are really part of a technology term where we think VSS is very well positioned.
So they'll be working hand in hand with the TEK Comms business to make sure that around the world we're taking their capability and putting it forward in front of customers in the best possible way.
And we mentioned Catlow down at GVR as well a company we've known for a long time.
But as we expand our vapor recovery offering certainly having that hanging hardware capability that they have is an important addition but again kind of a classic Danaher bolt-on acquisition in that regard.
And in terms -- I mean in terms of the multiple I think the one that's most relative just given the size would be X-Rite.
It's more kind of an adjacency-type acquisition and we paid about 10x trailing EBITDA there.
Given the cost takeout some of the public company costs that come out very quickly we can scale that down very quickly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to get back to some of your macro view.
I mean if you take some of your bellwether businesses and I always think about Fluke for example and a couple of the industrial TEK businesses but Fluke I know has scale in China I mean what do you see in emerging markets as it relates to their shorter cycle businesses? And any bottoming that's going on there? Yes.
I think by and large Scott that's a good -- certainly Fluke's a good barometer for us in that regard.
The fact we've got 40% of our business on consumables also gives us kind of a really good pulse in addition to some of the other POS data that we have.
We really can't at this point separate China from the rest of the emerging market basket.
I think what we've seen in China has really been I think evidence of the slowdown there outside of healthcare.
I'm encouraged by that because while we don't like the fact that we've certainly seen our non-healthcare businesses basically be flattish with flat to slightly down with T&amp;M being down double digit the healthcare businesses I think because of the government's actions purely with its rural healthcare initiatives have been quite strong in addition to what they're trying to do to establish an indigenous of life science research capability.
But it is what it is and I don't think that underlying business that we see in Industrial and in Environmental let alone in T&amp;M gets materially better until late this year or early next year.
But if I go to the other side of the so-called BRICS plus even though some of the headlines out of India and Brazil have not been I think particularly encouraging.
By and large we're seeing a good consistent steady growth.
In many of those markets we have modest positions.
Though the base that we're growing off of is not that pronounced that's a good thing for us.
We're clearly getting our bearings and really understanding how to play and compete in those parts of the world.
But there's really no place else in the world right now Scott that we would say we're seeing the sort of broad softening x healthcare that we're seeing in China.
We'll go next to Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of margins maybe a little bit I mean you've obviously taken a more conservative view on organic.
I mean are there areas that are tracking ahead of plan on margins? I mean Dental certainly it looked like a strong spot.
I don't know if you've had a breakthrough there maybe highlight that or some other areas where you think margins are tracking ahead of plan.
Yes I mean certainly Shannon speaking to Dental I think we're very pleased with that.
Really the first half performance all the way around given the environment could not have been better.
I wouldn't say it's a breakthrough though because we've got 3 years this looks like it's going to be the fourth year in a row where we had very steady margin improvement in Dental.
And I think they know even though they print what 14.4% here in the quarter that there's plenty of upside still as we adjust the cost structure and get quality growth out of that business.
So again I think a lot of us remember some of the false starts that we had there way back when but that now is really something for the history books.
And the trend they're on here again in the first half of this year I think is indicative of what that business and that team is capable of delivering.
I think the other segment that we've been particularly pleased would be in the Industrial segment where on modest growth overall -- good growth at PID but negative impact from the Motion-related businesses.
We've been able to sustain that 20% segment operating margins see core operating margin improvement in this quarter to about 100 basis points.
Again that's somewhat of a function of what we did in the fourth quarter of last year another reason why we're teeing up some restructuring here but we're also getting somewhat of a favorable price cost dynamic in Industrial Technology as well.
We've got about 1.5 point of price in that segment.
And given some of the commodity and some of the brief in declines in commodity prices it doesn't benefit us a lot across the other segments but it does definitely benefit us there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then on free cash flow I mean in the quarter I mean the conversion was particularly strong I mean the whole first half but particularly in the quarter.
I mean was there anything unusual there? Or how would you characterize that in terms of sustainability? Well we printed a little bit over $1.4 billion in the first half.
I think we're positioned to kind of print a comparable number to that here in the second half.
That would be a probably $400 million year-on-year increase in free cash flow.
That continues to track very well.
We did get a slight benefit versus last year.
We had higher tax payments in the first half lower in the second half.
That'll be a little bit different this year.
They were low in the first half.
We'll be a little bit higher in the second half.
But that's a small factor though.
Overall our working capital performance continues to be very strong.
And we've got $350 million of amortization flowing through as well and that continues to support that very high conversion ratio.
Which in turn Shannon of course is why we are optimistic and I think ready to go here on the M&amp;A front right.
We talked about what we have to spend here.
You think about the $5 billion of firepower over the next couple of years.
If the environment does become a bit more uncertain as we are thoroughly suggesting that it could that just can't help but make the M&amp;A environment more attractive to us.
We're ready to go.
We'll take our next question from Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
It's actually Charlie Clarke for Julian.
Just had a real quick question on the restructuring.
Just if you guys could kind of break down kind of where you think that's going just kind from an operating segment standpoint.
Charlie the $100 million in aggregate that we're flagging this morning will be well distributed across segments and geographies.
I think as you may know when we've talked about these actions at this stage probably in the past we've tried to not getting into too much detail.
I think that we prefer to have the opportunity to talk to affected associates before we talk about any specifics publicly and we'll do that again here this year.
But suffice it to say obviously the bulk of our developed market's footprint is where a lot of the structural cost in the corporation resides.
We will be working hard in that regard.
And some of the businesses that have lower relative margins today are probably the ones where there's a bit more upside and potential to improve our structural cost position in order to again preserve and protect those growth investments in the second half of this year and next year which we think are really the long-term fuel for the organization.
Okay great.
And then just real quick.
SG&amp;A-to-sales ratio just seemed like it ticked up a bit kind of quarter-over-quarter just enough.
Do you have any color on that? Sorry I'd have to look at it.
Nothing jumps to me off-line right here but I can -- I'll take a look at it.
We'll go next to Jon Groberg with Macquarie Capital.
So can you Larry on Tektronix around -- maybe on the instrument side of Test &amp; Measurement.
I think the last quarter you highlighted that the department returned to a book-to-bill of over 1.
Can you maybe just talk about what happened there intra-quarter? And then maybe kind of the follow-up on the restructuring.
I know that's where you did a lot of restructuring back during the last downturn.
Is that a business where there is more that you can still do or not so much in that business? Let me take them in reverse order.
There's always more you can do.
I think that's rooted in the DBS mindset.
We have done a lot as Dan was mentioning earlier.
Having done a lot over time is one reason we have such high margins at T&amp;M and why we're going to feel that effect of the revenue softness in the second half.
I think we prefer again not to get too specific here in mid-July.
We'll keep you posted as we talk to associates through the second half.
But suffice it to say again we'll be looking at everything as we get ready for the final implementation of this plan.
With respect to what we saw through the quarter the book-to-bill again at TEK was positive in -- I mean positive in terms of being north of 1.0.
But I think what we've seen is again that intersection between pronounced softness in China particularly Europe to a lesser degree and just a hesitancy perhaps a much more subdued investment level on the part of customers at least temporarily here that have us I think looking at the second half again in line with what we saw in the first half where T&amp;M is not going to be the growth leader for us particularly on the instrument side that we have seen in years past.
And just to clarify in the second half given the macro indicators that we see you expect on the instrument side similar to the first half.
That's what you said.
And you said communications that the comps would be slightly -- would make the overall numbers slightly lower right? And that'll be more pronounced in Q3.
We then think we'll see some sequential improvement in Q4.
Talking instruments.
Talking instruments yes right.
Okay.
And then if again -- I mean is that here at AACC [ph] as you alluded to? And it's clear unlike the Life -- on the Diagnostic and on the Life Science side that all your customers are going to be under much more pressure from either a reimbursement standpoint or a funding standpoint.
So now that you've owned those businesses for a while and you're kind of moving into this period I'm just curious did your strategy change at all? Or how are you just thinking about those businesses given the constraints that a lot of your customers are going to be under? Well I think that those constraints are not dissimilar from the realities that we anticipated when we've made these relative investments over time and particularly so with Beckman last year.
But I just continue to think that on the Diagnostic side Jon what we do from a scientific perspective is provide information at the front end of care which can't help but be part of the solution long term to some of these macro pressures that all payers government or otherwise are going to see.
I think on the Life Science side what we are I think well positioned to do is really skate to where the puck is if you will and not necessarily be tethered in a broad-based way to overall spending of what we do at AB SCIEX in mass spec what we do at Leica with confocals.
Very much it's targeted to the higher growth the higher interest the higher impact areas and categories where research work is being done.
I think if we can continue do to that strategically we'll be mindful of the macro pressures and any posterior budget effects that fall through our customers.
I think we'll be well positioned to take if you will our unfair share of those overall budgets because of the value we'll be providing our customers.
But just -- and I recognize you do not want to give specifics in terms of where you're going to do your restructuring but in that environment is there a need maybe as you've look at it to be more cost effective than maybe you initially thought? Or is that -- is it in line -- is everything you're seeing so far even with some of the cracks that you mentioned in the U.S.
is everything in line with your expectations so it's more about trying to find the value you just alluded to on the revenue side? Yes.
I think if you look at Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics here again in the quarter they were our star right.
I think we're flagging that the Life Science environment at least in the short term probably gets a bit more challenging for us.
But that said I think anything that we might do in Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics Jon is really a function of the opportunities that we see to improve the overall cost structure much as we have at Beckman 400 basis points up over the last year much as we've done at AB SCIEX over the last 2 years where I think we've been able to improve the cost structure while improving the overall operation of the business and clearly increasing the investment envelope up there for new technology and being a more serious player from a sales and service view globally.
So I think what we're suggesting here this morning is really borne of a global macro view and a desire to have more control over our destiny in a more uncertain world and not really a direct or indirect tieback to some of the long-term pressures that you're alluding to.
And again I think there are long-term opportunities embedded there as well which we're strategically very keen to go take advantage of.
We'll go next to Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple quick follow-ups.
First on assumed conversion margins in the second half a lot of sort of moving pieces in the overall margin picture but the core conversion assumption is still around 30% 35%? Sure.
Terry we were about 35% in Q2 when you factor out the acquisitions and the FX impact.
We should be in that zone here.
And again the one segment we will be challenged here will be T&amp;M as we expect that segment to be down tipping the third quarter.
I think there will be less of a comp [ph] in the fourth quarter to where we expect to be down low single to mid-single digits in terms of growth and expect segment margins to be down a couple of hundred basis points sequentially.
But outside that the other 4 segments should be in that 35% zone.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe I missed it in the detail but did you or could you give either the Beckman core on a stand-alone basis in 2Q or what Life Science's core including Beckman would have been? Life Science -- Beckman all up was up low single digits in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Larry you've been very clear on cap allocation in the near term and the focus is on the M&amp;A pipeline but I just wondered given sort of the shift in the world if you will number one.
Number two looking at your relative valuation versus the peer set versus where it's been historically I wonder if there's a point at which stock buyback starts to become an option that you entertain more seriously.
And if not under what scenario could you see that occurring? Terry I'd say this from time-to-time as you well know we've been opportunistic in buying back shares.
But I think our bias today is consistent with our long-term bias and that is to redeploy our free cash by way of M&amp;A.
But obviously it's something that we and the board constantly evaluate.
But our long-term bias I think is very much intact as we look forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe I just wonder if there's any additional color on the pipeline from the standpoint of size.
I mean I think it's been pretty clear that we ought to be anticipating bolt-ons versus anything large but I wonder if something may have changed there.
And then secondly I think the indication had been previously that maybe you are seeing more things outside of the Life Sciences area and is that unchanged -- has that changed at all? Terry that's largely been -- things have been largely up by the Life Science-Diagnostics space over the last 2 to 3 quarters.
I think we expect that to continue though I -- we will probably -- now that we're a year post-Beckman we'll start to be looking at bolt-ons for that space as well.
Given where we are from a capital structure we paid down -- our net debt down almost $2.5 billion over the last 12 months.
I think we're geared back up beyond just looking at bolt-ons.
And whether it's adjacency-type deals like X-Rite or even larger deals I think those are all being considered right now.
And given the macro environment obviously that creates some uncertainty in the marketplace and on Wall Street that tends to be good for people like us.
And we're optimistic we're going to be able to put the money to work here.
We'll take our last question today from Deane Dray with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Just going back quickly on the restructuring.
I might have missed this.
But could you address what the assumed paybacks are the timing on these -- the incremental restructuring initiatives here? Deane we would expect to complete this $100 million of restructuring by the end of the year and would expect a slightly north of a 1-year payback that'll -- in the ballpark of a $75 million benefit next year.
Research Division</strong> So that would be $75 million on a run-rate basis for the -- for 2013 is that right? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you don't typically call out book to bill.
It got called out in the first quarter because of the timing of some of the orders and later shipments.
But how did that resolve for this quarter? How did book to bill end up for the second quarter? It was right -- it was slightly north of 1 but basically 1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
Larry you alluded to some growth investments.
Oftentimes when you see companies there facing a little bit uncertain macro there's a pullback in growth investments.
Can you just talk about what areas the magnitude and would there be a sense of throttling back or are these committed resources? I think the throttling back Deane is exactly what we're trying to avoid.
I think if we were not taking the actions here in the second half given the macro uncertainties we might be dialing back some things in the margin which frankly are sometimes the easiest things to pull back on when things are getting tighter or more uncertain but by the same token the very things that you ought to protect in tough times.
So I think what we want to do is make sure we are taking out the structural costs that we can in a good year here to make sure that come what may the go-to-market investments that we're making be that in emerging markets be that with respect to digital marketing let alone the science and technology bets that we're making in new product development are protected and in some cases increased.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn it back to Mr.
McGrew for closing remarks.
Thanks everybody.
Dan and I are around all day for a follow-up.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference.
Have a great afternoon.
Good morning.
My name is Deana and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call and our third quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available on the Investors section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information and the subheading Quarterly Earnings and will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investors section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain available until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until Thursday October 25.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the access code is 9404363.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the earnings release Form 10-Q and other materials previously referenced for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
In these remarks and accompanying presentation all references to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's business unless otherwise noted.
We will also make forward-looking statements on today's call including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
It's possible that actual results might differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.
And additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is set forth in our SEC filings.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update our forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks and good morning everyone.
Given what was clearly a difficult operating environment during the third quarter our team did an outstanding job on the execution front with a 100-basis point increase year-over-year in our core operating margin and a 50% year-over-year increase in our free cash flow during the quarter.
For the first time in the company's history our trailing 4 quarters of free cash flow exceeded $3 billion.
We grew 1% organically in the quarter with sales in Western Europe declining at a mid-single digits rate and the U.S.
modestly negative both of which were slightly below our expectations.
Despite these macro pressures we successfully protected our organic investments and stayed active on the M&amp;A front announcing $500 million of new acquisitions.
In addition during the quarter we purchased approximately 5 million shares of company stock at an average price of approximately $52 per share.
We saw the positive impact of DBS on growth in a number of our businesses including Esko Leica Biosystems and Hach.
Especially in this environment we are focusing our efforts on capturing market share.
In the quarter DBS helped to accelerate new product introductions across many of our businesses and coupled with our go-to market initiatives drove share gains at Videojet ChemTreat Tektronix Communications Radiometer and Kerr to highlight a few specific operating businesses.
Geographically the emerging markets grew at a double-digit rate in the quarter.
China was also up low-double digits though sequentially we did not see any improvement in industrial and user demand.
Health care remains a bright spot in China with our Dental and Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics businesses growing in excess of 20% in the quarter.
Turning to the details of the quarter.
Today we reported record third quarter diluted net earnings per share of $0.77 a 7% increase as compared to our adjusted diluted net EPS last year.
We delivered this increase in earnings despite the fact that quarterly revenues declined slightly to $4.4 billion due to the negative impact of currency translation which reduced sales by 3%.
Core revenues grew 1% and the impact of acquisitions increased revenues by 1.5%.
Our gross margin for the third quarter was 51.6% and our reported operating margin expanded 260 basis points year-over-year to 17.1%.
DBS remains the key driver of our outstanding cash flow performance.
Third quarter operating cash flow was $975 million a 42% increase year-over-year.
Free cash flow for the first 9 months of 2012 was $2.3 billion up 37%.
And our free cash flow to net income conversion ratio for the first 9 months of the year was a robust 140%.
Across each of our growth platforms we are active and optimistic on the M&amp;A front.
Through the first 9 months of the year we've already deployed more than $1 billion of capital on 10 acquisitions and have reached agreement to acquire 2 additional businesses for another $500 million this quarter.
Subsequent to quarter end we announced the pending sale of Apex Tool Group our strategic joint venture with Cooper Industries to Bain Capital for $1.6 billion.
We expect the sale to generate after-tax proceeds to Danaher of approximately $650 million and to close in the first half of 2013.
The transaction is expected to be dilutive to 2013 net earnings per share by approximately $0.08 until we redeploy that capital.
The transaction remains subject to customary closing conditions including regulatory approvals.
Turning to our 5 operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement segment revenues declined 5% in the quarter with core revenues down 6.5%.
Core operating margin for the third quarter decreased 320 basis points while reported operating margins declined 390 basis points to 20.1% primarily a result of the lower sales volumes in our instruments businesses.
Instruments core revenue declined at a low-double digit rate.
At Fluke core revenues were down double digits.
While demand there was healthy in Latin America and in the Middle East it was more than offset by continued weakness in other geographies primarily China.
Despite the difficult environment we continue to protect and nurture the growth investments in the business and in the quarter expanded the range of Fluke's front-line industrial maintenance and troubleshooting tools with the launch of the 805 Vibration Meter.
At Tektronix core sales declined at a midteens rate with further weakening globally across the business.
Tektronix recently introduced the next phase in our award-winning MDO product portfolio the MDO4000 a lower price point model of our all-in-1 oscilloscope and spectrum analyzer targeting design engineers across a broad range of applications.
Core revenues from our Communications businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate in the quarter driven by demand for Tektronix Communications' mobile network management solutions in North America and China.
We expect core growth rates in our Communications businesses to decline in the fourth quarter primarily due to the timing of a large carrier project from last year that is winding down.
Demand for our network security systems is particularly strong in light of recent high-profile DdoS attacks.
As a result enterprise customers across many sectors are seeking to fortify their network security defenses.
Turning to Environmental.
Revenues increased 2.5% in the quarter with core revenues up 3.5%.
The segment core operating margin increased 70 basis points in the quarter with reported operating margins essentially flat primarily due to the dilutive effect of recent acquisitions.
Water quality core revenues increased at a low-single digit rate in the quarter.
Hach core revenues grew mid-single digits with solid demand in all major geographies and across most verticals.
Municipal spending for our core lab and process instrumentation was up low-single digits globally.
Hach remains focused on expanding its service capabilities doubling its service revenues as a percent of sales over the last several years.
Today consumables and service represent 55% of our water quality group's total revenues.
During the quarter we acquired Dingli a Chinese distributor of online water quality instrumentation.
This is our first water quality acquisition in China and provides Hach with both engineering and integration capabilities which will help drive growth in our process business.
The third quarter marked ChemTreat's ninth straight quarter of double-digit core revenue growth.
Our best-in-class sales force initiatives continue to capture market share with several new account wins during the quarter.
Trojan core revenues declined in the quarter as municipal spending for capital equipment remained weak.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's core revenues grew low-single digits led by robust demand for our dispensers in Latin America driven by anti-tampering security regulations in Mexico.
In addition the Encore 700 our highly flexible EMV-ready dispenser designed to support security upgrades for credit and debit cards in North America which we launched at the end of last year continues to see strong adoption and now represents over 30% of Gilbarco's U.S.
sales.
CSP Magazine the convenient store trade publication recently awarded Gilbarco their 2012 Retailer Choice Best New Product in technology category for its Applause TV dispenser which enhances customer loyalty and increases store traffic.
During the quarter Gilbarco acquired ACIS Group an Eastern European provider of products and services to the retail and commercial petroleum industry.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
Revenues for the quarter decreased 3% due to the impact of currency exchange rates and a small divestiture.
Core revenues were up 2.5%.
Core operating margin for the segment was up 320 basis points while our reported operating margin increased 890 basis points from the prior year to 12.2%.
The Diagnostics businesses continued their strong performance with mid-single digit core growth in the third quarter.
Radiometer's core sales increased at a high-single digit rate with growth in all major geographies and solid placements of both our core blood gas instruments and our new AQT immunoassay analyzers.
AQT unit sales were up more than 25% from a year ago.
During the quarter we received an order from a large German dialysis company to place 250 ABL90 blood gas analyzers in clinics throughout the country.
This contract runs for 5 years and is expected to result in over 1 million tests per year.
Leica Biosystems sales increased at a mid-single digit rate with advanced staining in core histology sales up low teens and mid-single digits respectively.
Growth was balanced geographically with North America Europe and the emerging markets all contributing.
At the National Society for Histology Convention in Vancouver this month Leica Biosystems showcased 6 new products the most of any presenting company to show further emphasizing our commitment to innovation.
One of the products we debuted was the BOND advanced software package which allows multiple advanced staining instruments to run from one central control panel thereby increasing efficiency for busy lab technicians.
As we discussed in our Leica Investor Day last year digital pathology is an increasingly important element in the path lab as advanced staining is driving therapeutic treatment options and increasing the need for more advanced image analysis.
So during the quarter we were pleased to announce the pending acquisition of Aperio Technologies a leader in this market with a full range of products covering scanning managing viewing and analyzing images.
The combination of Aperio and Leica Biosystems strengthens our position in digital pathology with considerable innovation and go-to-market synergy potential to serve doctors and patients better and to fuel strong organic growth.
We are pleased with our progress at Beckman Coulter where DBS has made an impact on many facets of the business including new product introductions sales and marketing and quality all the while improving the overall cost structure.
Diagnostics again grew at a low-single digit rate organically the fourth consecutive quarter of low-single digit growth.
While modest the sustained growth we've seen over the last year has encouraged us that this business once fully up on its feet will be a strong contributor to Danaher's overall core growth.
Beckman's launch of the AU5800 series a new high-volume clinical chemistry analyzer while still early is going well with encouraging initial customer feedback.
As production and placements ramp over the remainder of the year we expect the 5800 to be a key driver of growth in 2013 and beyond.
During the quarter we announced the pending acquisition of IRIS International a leading manufacturer of automated in-vitro urinalysis diagnostic systems and consumables.
IRIS' well-respected brand and market position provides an attractive entry point into this fast-growing IVD segment.
This transaction is expected to close before year end.
Our Life Sciences businesses core revenues declined low-single digits in the quarter.
AB SCIEX's core sales grew low-single digits in the quarter with particular strength in China.
We began shipping the 6500 our most sensitive triple quad system which we launched at ASMS in June.
The 6500's ability to increase our customers' research and experimentation capabilities has resulted in very good feedback from initial users and we expect shipments to increase through the balance of this year.
Leica Microsystems core sales declined mid-single digits in the quarter with soft demand in North America and Europe as the pace of activities slowed across a number of customers.
Earlier this year we debuted the SP8 modular confocal laser scanning microscope a truly innovative new technology.
We began shipments late in the second quarter and expect to see a ramp over the next several quarters.
In Dental revenues for the quarter decreased 1% due to the adverse effect of currency exchange rates.
Core revenues were up 3%.
Core operating margin increased 90 basis points and reported operating margin increased 100 basis points to 15.5%.
We are pleased both with the team's execution and the relative stability of the overall dental market.
Dental consumables core revenues grew low-single digits in the quarter led by sales of our general dentistry consumables and orthodontic solutions across all major geographies.
Our Kerr brand continues to take share as a result of a robust new product portfolio and strong commercial execution around the world.
Dental equipment core revenues increased low-single digits in the quarter with growth in instruments and equipment.
This month we launched the KaVo E30 treatment unit an extension of our successful E70 and E80 lines which allows doctors to flexibly match their treatment units with desired instrumentation.
We are quite happy with our performance in China as our combined equipment and consumables go-to-market initiatives resulted in another quarter of double-digit growth.
These joint efforts in China are a model for our Dental businesses globally as we accelerate their emerging market penetration.
In Industrial Technologies total revenues increased 5.5% while core revenues were up 1.5% for the quarter.
Our core operating margin increased 120 basis points while our reported operating margin declined modestly to 21.8% primarily due to the impact of recently acquired acquisitions.
Product Identification core revenues were up low-double digits in the quarter with growth across most major geographies.
Sales of Videojet's CIJ printers were particularly strong up greater than 10% in the quarter.
We launched the Videojet 3020 laser coder an entry level laser for marking and coding applications in the consumer packaged goods in industrial products markets.
At Esko core sales grew more than 10% in the quarter with strength across all major product categories.
The consumer packaged goods industry continues to look for Esko to help fulfill their packaging design needs which helped drive midteens growth in our software business in the quarter.
Despite the economic headwinds in Europe Esko's sales there grew high-single digits due to a healthy order book following the drupa trade show in the second quarter.
X-Rite our largest acquisition year-to-date is off to a solid start with several new products set to be introduced here in the fourth quarter.
Collaboration between X-Rite and Esko has already begun with both teams excited to leverage opportunities to work together.
Our Motion businesses core revenues declined at a high-single digit rate in the quarter with weakness in most major geographies.
We continue to see softness in Industrial automation engineering solutions and technology markets across most major geographies.
We expect core sales to improve in the fourth quarter in part due to easier year-over-year comparisons.
So to wrap up our team continues to execute well.
While the impact of DBS is evident in the share gains we saw across a number of businesses clearly the macroeconomic headlines are having an impact on our growth.
We're mindful that the operating environment is likely to remain challenging going forward and as a result we are increasing our previously announced 2012 anticipated restructuring efforts from approximately $100 million to approximately $120 million.
We believe our strong recurring revenue base now 40% of total revenues and our efforts to reduce our structural costs along with the margin expansion opportunities present in our newer businesses and investments in growth initiatives should position us well for the balance of 2012 and beyond.
We are initiating fourth quarter diluted net EPS from continuing operations guidance of $0.80 to $0.85 as well as adjusting our full year GAAP diluted net EPS guidance from $3.19 to $3.26 to a new range of $3.14 to $3.19.
The midpoint of our revised GAAP EPS guidance would result in approximately 12% year-over-year growth compared to 2011 adjusted EPS of $2.83.
We are assuming fourth quarter 2012 core revenue will be similar to what we have seen in the third quarter.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal comments.
Deana we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] First we'll hear from Shannon O'Callaghan from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So Larry so the U.S.
going a little bit negative.
I mean I guess how much of that surprised you and maybe talk about some of the key drivers and what you think's behind that? Yes I think this -- we wouldn't isolate Shannon the U.S.
I think it was really from a geographic perspective both a U.S.
and a Western European dynamic here.
I think we've said for many years that the third quarter is often about September certainly given the weak summer that we and others saw.
That was all the more true here in the third quarter.
We saw an uptick in September.
We just didn't see a big enough uptick relative to expectations and again in a real contrast I think to the high-growth markets where we saw that low-double digit growth.
I think when you look at it from a product perspective it's interesting because from a -- consumables were pretty much right where we thought they'd be.
We thought they'd be around 4% core.
They were and again that's about 40% of our overall revenue.
I think where we saw the swing was really in the bigger ticket capital purchases where I think we pegged the U.S.
and Europe to be up slightly and it ended up in both places being down slightly.
And again as we indicated in our prepared remarks Shannon it was principally in Instruments Fluke and Tek certainly saw that in Motion where we're serving bigger ticket capital investments.
At Trojan we saw things soften and push out again kind of big ticket muni spending.
And in Life Sciences I think we saw some of the academic and government spending pressures to a degree.
So we're really talking about a couple of hundred basis points of a swing there around if you will kind of Western market capital spend.
Research Division</strong> And as you're sort of launching new products with -- things like AB SCIEX and some of the things that have come out I mean are those kind of initial launches not what they used to be? And what are you hearing from customers in terms of any deferral? I mean are -- is there interest but they're saying check me again in 3 to 6 months or sort of what's the nature of the feedback? Well I would say with the new products and particularly in Life Sciences we really couldn't be better positioned.
And I think if you look at SCIEX for example we continued to ramp around the new products particularly the 6500 on the high end the 4500 in the mid-price point range.
Talked about the new confocal at Leica the SP8.
So those conversations are -- they couldn't be going better Shannon.
And I think that's why we're alluding to these shipment start-ups and these ramps around products that we really put out in the market in the first half of the year.
Those by and large have been good conversations.
I think it's more if you will the bread-and-butter products and programs where we've seen some of the pressure that we're alluding to again primarily in the U.S.
and in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Innovation particularly in life science research is the -- it's the name of the game.
And fortunately I think we're in a good position in that regard.
We just got to get a little bit more time behind us to get these products ramped.
We'll take our next question from Steve Tusa from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you just talk about what's going on in Life Sciences? I guess the little bit weaker performance there and the margin is also a bit of a disappointment.
Is there anything specific that we should watch out for that's going to be part of this restructuring over the next few quarters that you would expect improvement on there? Well let me break it down in terms of the top line margins and restructuring.
If we start with Life Sciences again Life Science as a group was down low-single digits I think a real contrast to the mid-single digit growth we saw in Diagnostics which continue to be I think very strong.
Again I think with AB SCIEX and with Leica which are the 2 engines there of course we saw academic and government spending be more muted here in the second half than we were anticipating.
And we've seen that in the wake of some of the austerity some of the sequestration concerns that are out there.
As we ramp some of these new products we'll get some benefit to offset that more modest spending environment.
But I really think that's largely what we're talking about here Steve in terms of what we're seeing in Life Sciences.
It's largely a Western dynamic.
I think we help ourselves a good bit as we get these new products out the door.
But again as we flag a fourth quarter growth rate in line with what we've seen here in the third it's in part due to a view that the spending environment in and around some of these bigger ticket items will be less robust in the short term than it would normally be.
Research Division</strong> Why does that get better? I mean isn't there a risk that that gets actually worse if these guys don't get together and get something done here near term? I mean isn't that kind of a -- what's kind of the worst case for that related business for next year in case something happens here with the cliff that's coming up? Well I -- my view Steve and this is maybe one of the few times we get the benefit of being here in Washington talking to a lot of folks out say at the NIH up on the hill.
I think regardless of how the election plays out regardless of which party's in charge I think there's a view that the U.S.
much like China much like Germany needs to invest in life science research.
It's the right thing to do.
It's a source of national competitive advantage.
So I don't think we worry so much about the long-term worst case.
I think what we're seeing is a -- is more temporary given the strategic long-term interests that these customers be they government or nongovernment have in mind.
And again to the earlier question as we continue to fuel innovation like the 6500 and the 4500 it's SCIEX the SP8 at Leica Navios at Beckman and flow cytometry I think we'll be well positioned to take share of the spending that is left out there around the world.
Research Division</strong> But I guess as you contingency plan for next year is this a business that could possibly be down double digits in a worst case scenario? I don't think that is in our planning scope at this point Steve in any way shape or form.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question just on you guys buying back stock.
Just maybe what's the -- how did that decision -- how'd you come to that decision and does that reflect on perhaps a lack of acquisition opportunities out there? I mean historically you guys have been pretty good buyers of your stock.
It's performed well after you've bought it.
I'm just curious as to with such a lack of visibility out there on the macro why step up and do it now.
Steve I think it's -- clearly the bias is to the M&amp;A side.
And as Larry alluded to we've spent about $1.5 billion year-to-date on M&amp;A.
The buyback represented about 1/6 of that amount but we do as you pointed out we do periodically go in and buy back some stock.
You'll remember we issued about 20 million shares last year so it's an opportunity to sort of bring some of that stock back in.
And in terms of -- hard to read EPS within a couple of cents but that's not really how we look at the buyback.
We look at it on a cash basis.
So we issued the stock last year at $52.
At that point our free cash flow was about $2.21 billion.
And we were able to buy that stock back at an average price of $52.
And right now our free cash flow is $3 billion up 40%.
So it just seemed like a good investment and a good opportunity to take some of that stock back.
But clearly the bias is on the M&amp;A side.
We'll take our next question from Deane Dray with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> For the expectations on the M&amp;A side I know we've talked about the interest in rebalancing the portfolio more towards the -- or lowering the Life Sciences Dental Med Tech to closer to 40%.
IRIS came up.
It looked like a nice tuck-in for Beckman but how are you thinking about the mix versus what you look in the funnel of potential M&amp;A opportunities? Well Deane let me hit maybe on 3 points.
First I think the intent today is just as you described it.
I think we would be very keen to put the next $1 billion $2 billion $3 billion to work predominantly outside of Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics and Dental.
I think as we look forward we want to maintain that balance.
We think that serves the company and shareholders very well.
I think as you look inside the funnels to your specific question we're active in a whole host of areas in that regard.
So I think we continue to be optimistic.
Per Dan's comments a moment ago we'll be able to deploy capital in that direction in a serious meaningful way.
Third point I'd make is that certainly as you can appreciate IRIS coming on board is a wonderful addition.
Urinalysis is one test modality that Beckman is not in today.
I think IRIS through our global distribution channels will be a significant contributor going forward.
Clearly digital pathology is a core trend of the future in and around one of our most successful businesses that being Leica Biosystems.
And if Leica can come anywhere close to doing in digital pathology with Aperio what they were able to do at Vision Systems in advanced staining I think we'll be very happy.
That said let's keep in mind that if you step back on just the spend here in 2012 at least the commitment we're talking about $1.5 billion and I think just over $1 billion is outside of Life Sciences and Dental.
So we're very happy with what we've done with X-Rite and Product ID.
We've made some important additions to the Communications business at Tek Comms and so forth.
So I think the intent is as it was.
I think the funnel's in good shape.
And if you look at the body of work so far this year a couple of nice life science additions to be sure but I think you see that intention very much playing out with the capital decisions we made.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as a follow-up and since we're on the topic of the M&amp;A funnel and you and I have spoken about this before but just like to hear an updated thought process about Danaher's potential interest in specific Software-as-a-Service type of businesses.
And clearly so much of Danaher businesses today already have embedded software whether it's Esko or Tek Communications.
But are there opportunities for Danaher to look into specific stand-alone Software-as-a-Service? And what would be the mindset and evaluation expectations for those types of businesses? Well Deane I think the short answer is yes.
Because as you rightly point out whether it's what we've seen at Esko what we're increasingly doing at Tek Comms software is not only a critical component of the value we create for our customers but the business models around how we deliver that value are evolving and whether it's Software-as-a-Service or some of those other Web-based or cloud-based models I think you are going to see that being of increased importance and thus interest to us.
I suspect you can see us approach this not only inorganically but organically as well.
We're a week away from completing our strategic plan reviews for all the businesses.
This was a common theme of opportunity as we look to extend our hardware- or equipment-based value props in just a whole host of places some of which you actually might be quite surprised to see.
In terms of valuations obviously the valuation parameters we've talked about in the past I think are going to hold here.
I don't think in any way we would see different business models really requiring us to depart from frankly some old school math in terms of cash-on-cash returns.
But as we've seen thus far as we look forward we think we'll be able to do that.
So I don't think you'll see 10 of the next 10 deals be SaaS-based transactions but clearly that's the way the world's moving and those sorts of additions to the portfolio will be strategically important and I think value enhancing along the way.
We'll take our next question from Jon Wood from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Larry thanks for the update on the Beckman top line experience there.
Could you offer us an update on how the margin trajectory looks for that business as well as cash flow? Just where you are from a synergy perspective and how you're tracking relative to the plan you laid out at the December Analyst Day.
Jon this is Dan.
Maybe I'll add just a few facts and let Larry add a little bit of color.
I mean we continue to track quite well up 400 or 500 basis points year-on-year.
We will do the $120 million of restructuring in the fourth quarter.
It will be broad-based but Beckman and others will clearly be part of that and we expect some additional opportunity from that as well in terms of higher margins going into '13.
As you know in the procurement side in a regulated industry things can take longer.
That was part of our plan.
We're making progress there.
Again you'll see some of that benefit.
So we clearly will achieve the $250 million of cost savings that we thought we would have in '12 and believe there's another $100 million of costs to come out and margin improvement between '13 and '14.
So I think we're pretty well positioned.
From a cash flow perspective it's just -- it's been terrific.
We've taken out about $175 million of capital out of the business through the first 9 months of the year.
That's on top of a pretty large number in the second half of last year.
So the cash flow at Beckman has just been extraordinary.
Jon I would just add to that that clearly as you well know the foundation of that strong initial financial performance is what we're doing from a quality from a service perspective first and foremost.
We've had a number of the key facilities Brea Chaska reinspected without incident.
Very encouraged by that.
Obviously we've got the troponin submissions into the FDA.
We were out a fair bit over the last 6 7 weeks for some strategic reviews.
We had the board out in fact.
Just the core DBS implementation around service calls and past dues.
Service calls for example unscheduled calls down 20% from a year ago.
Just a lot of good improvements that we see in our metrics there that customers are beginning to see.
In the prepared remarks we flagged the progress we're making on the growth side.
Again we're not going to try to get too far ahead of ourselves but encouraged by what we're seeing not only in retention but increasingly the [indiscernible] opportunities we get for new business where we are not the incumbent on the back of some of these improvements.
And as we get outside of the U.S.
and we get outside of Western Europe clearly the high-growth markets continue to really contribute to the overall performance that we're seeing.
We had for the first time all the Diagnostics businesses together out in Brea looking at some of the strategic synergies both top and bottom line.
That was a great week to have Radiometer and Leica Biosystems in addition to Beckman together.
So we're excited about where we are but I'd say all the more excited about the future in and around Beckman and the Diagnostics group.
We'll hear next from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Just a couple kind of random things here.
Just back on margins Test &amp; Measurement the decremental seemed very severe there.
Was there something particular going on with mix or restructuring or something in the quarter? Can you just elaborate a little bit more there? Jeff the reported -- if you just look at the base numbers it was almost 100%.
But if you strip out acquisitions and FX it was 60% still a high BCM on that.
It is our highest gross margin business and our highest BCM business.
Clearly we're doing some restructuring.
We'll do more restructuring here in the fourth quarter.
That's an element of it.
We are also sustaining investments across a number of our T&amp;M businesses.
So I think as we get through some of the restructuring here in the second half that BCM degradation will decline and again we're -- I think we're of the view that this is not going to be as pronounced a downturn as we saw a couple of years ago.
So you are expecting the business revenues declining into the fourth quarter again? Yes we are.
Yes.
And just back to the questions on Beckman.
So you're getting a lot of year-over-year margin improvement but did the margins improve sequentially? Obviously the segment overall did have organic growth although you had some weak spots but the margins were down sequentially in the segment aggregate.
Yes we were down I think 80 or 90 basis points.
There was a little bit of -- there was a write-down of an investment that Beckman had made prior to our acquisition that impacted margins a little bit in the quarter.
And the biggest impact on margins is the fact that Life Science was down not only at Beckman but broad based we were down at LSD.
So our Diagnostics margins were up year-on-year but the sequential decline was really driven by Life Science where the core growth was negative.
And just on the restructuring Dan do you expect to get dollar-for-dollar payback next year or does it spread into '14? How do we think about that? The $120 million we should get about a $90 million payback.
And maybe maybe we don't get all of that in Q1 but by Q2 we think we'll be fully ramped on that.
So we'll get the 95% of that here in '13 is our expectation at this point.
Okay.
And then just finally is there a desire to retire that entire 20 million shares that are related to the Beckman deal? Well you knew I'll give the same answer as M&amp;A.
I mean we don't have a plan there.
We will continue to look at it periodically and opportunistically.
We'll take our next question from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to focus on a couple of the bright spots first.
The free cash flow was exceptional and it sounds like from your comments Dan that a lot of that was due to Beckman Coulter.
So I'm wondering how much of that 130% or so of conversion was driven by -- or has been driven by Beckman Coulter this year.
Sure.
If you look at our year -- our 9-month performance where our free cash flow to continuing net income it's about 140%.
If I took away the $170 million of capital we've taken out of Beckman it'd still be 130%.
Now even if we own Beck say we're 3 years from now we're not going to get $170 million but we'd still expect say $50 million.
But if I take that all put it on the sidelines we'd still be 130% conversion.
We're seeing broad-based very good cash flow across our businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the message is more to come from Beckman but perhaps not $170 million? That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Larry how do we think about China here? Because China was up low-double digits versus fairly flat in 2Q.
Do you feel that double digit is sustainable from here? Well I think Nigel we are more the beneficiaries of easier comps right now than we are any pronounced pickup in China.
So we're thrilled to be back printing double-digit deltas here.
I suspect we'll be close to being able to do that in the fourth quarter again.
But I think until we get into '13 until they're on the other side of at least their transition and perhaps are pulling a few more policy levers than they pulled this year I think that's really going to be the dynamic.
The comps will make us look better but we'll be fighting for business virtually everywhere.
The export base there as you know is soft in part as a function of their exposure to Europe.
We feel that probably most in Instruments particularly at Tektronix and probably to a degree in Motion.
We're very pleased again with both Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics as well as Dental.
Don't really see any reason that that would in a pronounced way slow and we would expect given their 5-year targets for that to be another highlight in '13.
But otherwise I think we're probably certainly like many others of a more cautious view in the short term relative to China certainly in contrast to perhaps where we were in the springtime.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just finally could you help us think about 4Q in terms of obviously September was a bit softer.
How does that flow through into 4Q especially given that we got some tough comps coming up in 4Q? And then on top of that we normally see a pickup in margins in Life Sciences and one or 2 other businesses.
Should we expect to have some of that normal seasonality coming through? Maybe I'll just on the Life Science you -- we're going to have -- they're going to get their fair share of restructuring in the fourth quarter in Life Science Diagnostics.
But despite that you'll see a nice sequential improvement here from Q3 and maybe broadly on...
Yes I mean from a top line perspective Nigel again I think we're going to see or would expect the fourth quarter to come in pretty much in line with what we've seen here in the third quarter.
But that's despite a 300-basis point easier compare.
So I think there were a number of places where September showed a little bit of a push at the end but not enough for us to get excited.
At least I think on balance that might have been pent up from July August some of that perhaps is just typical quarter-end stuff.
But I think we've remained concerned about the U.S.
and Europe particularly with respect to capital or bigger ticket discretionary sorts of things and we could see some of that get pushed again.
We'll hear next from Julian Mitchell from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> The first question just really on pricing.
So I guess you called out that pricing was pretty good in Industrial Tek and Environmental.
I just wondered if the margins in Life Science and Test &amp; Measurement when you were talking about the sequential move down in Life Science and the heavy year-on-year decrementals in Test &amp; Measurement was there anything going on on price? I mean the volumes have obviously softened as you've gone through the year.
Are you starting to see price get a little bit worse in any of the business segments? I mean Life Science price Julian was slightly negative in Q3.
But I think that's pretty comparable to what we saw in the first half.
Again it really was more of the fact that you had your high BCM equipment business and Life Science being down organically really driving the margins.
Probably a little bit of element to that in T&amp;M price probably a little bit more of an impact on margins.
We were running probably about 0.5 point of price in the first half of the year and we didn't get any price in Test.
It wasn't negative but we didn't get any price in the third quarter.
So that probably hurt us a little bit on the margin side in T&amp;M.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the portfolio I mean you've obviously announced the JV divestment will close early next year.
When you look at the rest of the portfolio I mean are you sort of broadly happy with that? You feel that you've got out most of the areas now after the last 18 months and it's really just a question of how much M&amp;A you do from here? I think that's broadly the case Julian.
I think as we look at the portfolio while we would never say never we would submit that over 90% of the revenues today are in our desirable growth platforms.
So as we think about the next $1 billion the next $5 billion of activity it should be acquisitions more so than divestitures and again hopefully balanced across the 5 segments.
We'll take our next question from Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I know Beckman gets most of the limelight now from Tektronix but could we maybe go back to Tek a little bit.
I guess this is the fourth quarter of continuing worsening core growth.
It was low -- down low single down mid single down high single and now down midteens.
And maybe just dive into that a little bit and versus your expectations and the updates we've gotten over the year in terms of how you think that well past the integration now and how that business unit's kind of playing out from your perspective within the portfolio and whether this is just a cyclical issue.
Well yes.
I think that when we look at Tek we wouldn't -- I think any business within Danaher has a healthy list of improvement opportunities and Tek is no different Steve.
But if we look at the second half performance here and the outlook Dan just referenced I think what we've seen is frankly that the technology end markets that we serve and some of the key geographies particularly China have been soft.
We -- I think we're of the view that they would be firming up a bit that we'd begin to anniversary some of those down comps and that would be helpful.
But between what we're seeing in Tek and what we're seeing in China particularly that's not the near-term outlook unfortunately.
So again I don't want to suggest to you that we are executing flawlessly there.
But I think it's largely a macro call and we want to get to work on the things we can control and ride out the macro as best we can.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Is it living up to your return on capital expectations in terms of how that's -- or is that getting pushed out even further at this point? I mean in light of the top line this year it's getting pushed out.
I mean we're -- I mean our communication side of the business is way ahead but the top line on the instruments side has pushed that out.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And -- but strategically there are no sort of major changes to the direction of that business right? No.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then maybe contrast that with some of the strongest performing accelerating growth from Product ID and -- we're seeing it in Product ID we're seeing it in ChemTreat we're seeing it in Radiometer where it's something like between 11 and 16 quarters of straight growth.
That's been pretty significant.
And in acquisitive areas also over time how are -- what is driving some of that consistently? Is it the product introduction side that you're frequently referencing or how should we think about that? Well I think if you were to put those businesses on the table Radiometer or even Leica Bio you talked about ChemTreat you talked about Product ID from BJ to Esko you'd really break it down Steve I think differently across the businesses with DBS being the common denominator.
Better go-to-market execution in terms of what the marketers are setting up for the sales force and the way the sales force is executing in the field.
New product innovation is very much an important part of what we're doing in those businesses without question.
But the third bit which is still important is what we do from a quality delivering cost perspective.
Some folks think that if you will kind of shopfloor DBS is relevant but whether we're going into the factory in Copenhagen at Radiometer or the service network at ChemTreat or even in the software routing labs at Esko DBS has a lot of positive impact so that the rest of the business can really operate without a tremendous amount of friction.
So we can kind of break down each one of those stories but it's just I think day in day out strong balanced continuous improvement in those 3 areas which is driving the growth that you see.
Certainly in Product ID we get the secular benefit of broad exposure to supply chain product security and more customized marketing trends particularly in consumer goods.
Clearly at ChemTreat we're benefiting from a fair bit of market disruption over time as well.
In Diagnostics particularly in critical care and in oncology unfortunately those are both growth sectors where Radiometer and Leica Biosystems respectively are exceptionally well positioned.
So we get a -- we got to make a little bit of our own luck there but we also think we face some broader secular trends there and elsewhere that are going to be good over the long haul.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just a final detail the euro assumption that you have into the I think $0.01 in the fourth quarter from FX could you just give us that your -- on your assumption? Yes.
I mean it's just basically the $1.30 versus kind of the mid-$1.20s where it was over the summer.
We'll take our next question from John Inch with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Larry did the second half of September because I know that September is a very important month and often these quarters there are swing factors in the final days of the quarter did the second half of September or as the quarter played on or the month of September played on demonstrably weakened versus expectations in terms of the CapEx dynamic that you were talking about? I wouldn't say it was -- there was broad-based weakening that accelerated in the last week or 2 John but we certainly saw some places where we saw some things push that we thought wouldn't in the last week or 2.
But didn't try to tally it up to determine what that meant when the dust settled.
Research Division</strong> Were there any pockets of the portfolio that actually got a little bit better than expected? I think the consumables businesses or the consumable parts of a number of the businesses again whether it's Product ID even Diagnostics were solid.
I wouldn't say that we saw an uptick.
There were some places where we saw POS pick up a bit.
But I really wouldn't want to try to get into a lot of detail there John because I think it would be potentially misleading.
I think we saw by and large that September uptick just wasn't enough and the tone out there again in the U.S.
and Europe particularly is x housing x autos where we don't have a lot of exposure it's just not that buoyant right now.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's fair.
Can I ask you you guys did a tremendous job of preserving profits in the last recession.
This time around you're sort of in advance of a lot of companies in terms of restructuring and doing some more restructuring than previously called out.
If the U.S.
were to tip into let's say a mild recession do you feel as confident that Danaher would be able to have as many cost levers to go after if you will to be able to preserve profitability the way you sort of did last time? Well I certainly would say that we would have that intent John.
I think that when you think about the downturns as I think Dan was alluding to earlier we're not in any way anticipating a post-Lehman a post dot-com sort of downturn.
If there's anything out there of that nature we would expect it to be more muted.
The operating challenge of course is to make sure that we're balancing what we do on the cost side with the protection of our organic investments be they short term in terms of go-to-market or longer term around new product development.
But that's always the case.
I think what we've tried to do not only back in the summertime with the $100 million call out now the 20% increase to that restructuring effort here this year is just to give ourselves more latitude in that regard as we think about earnings growth and long-term growth investments going into '13.
Research Division</strong> Just lastly Larry given the deal you did in China and the downturn in China is that shaking out more M&amp;A opportunities for you there for whatever reason maybe more willing sellers or just evolution of markets? How are you thinking about that? John I think that's -- it's an interesting question.
I think we're more optimistic today about our China M&amp;A outlook than we've ever been.
It's hard for me to pinpoint the root cause because the macro dynamics that you highlight I think are very much in play.
I also think that our team's doing a better job.
So it's really the combination which I think fuel our optimism.
We have time for one final question and we'll hear from Jon Groberg with Macquarie Capital.
So I guess just one big picture question Larry.
You said you expected 4Q to be similar to 3Q in terms of core growth but obviously as you mentioned your comps get much easier.
So if you think about sequentially maybe thinking about those big buckets that you talked about consumables versus instruments is it the instruments that you expect to maybe be a little bit worse sequentially in the fourth quarter or just kind of how you're thinking big picture about the sequential dynamics of the business.
Good morning Jon.
You nailed it.
If we break down consumables versus equipment we would look broadly and say we think consumables again despite the comps will be in that 4% range.
But we would -- we'd expect equipment and primarily again around some of the businesses that we flagged to be down slightly.
Okay.
And then if I can just 2 quick clarifications.
One it was kind of hit on on the Tektronix business and I guess you don't really have much more insight in the next 3 months or so as to what will happen there but on the Life Sciences side I was just a little -- it looks like AB SCIEX in 2Q and 3Q was kind of low-single digits.
So I just want to clarify kind of what happened there.
Was it more the Leica business because I think they're similar sizes was it more the Leica business that was down worse than expected or did you expect that AB to be -- to grow even better than it did in the quarter? You're right again Jon.
It's principally the softness at Leica that is bringing down the overall number there.
Sciex as you can appreciate probably has a little bit of pent-up business here with the timing of the launches come out of ASMS purely with the 6500.
But on balance it is a -- it's a Leica story.
Okay.
And then last one just quickly how are you thinking about the medical device tax in '13 and maybe just either size it I know it's under manufactured costs so it's maybe not the full 2% but I'm just -- and are you going to be able to offset that in any way? Just curious how you're thinking about it today.
I was hoping to avoid any political questions here a few weeks before the election.
But I think we're in the process of working through our options and the impact here Jon as we I think gear up from an operating perspective in the fourth quarter not only from -- with our '13 budgets but frankly some of the more tactical considerations.
Clearly we need to be mindful as to what others do here but to the extent that we can pass some of this along we will attempt to do that.
And Jon I mean we'll go through all the detail in our budgets here in November.
But our kind of top-level look is if the full tax goes in and we're not able to recover any of it and that's not going to be our assumption but just lay out the math it'd probably be about a $0.01 a quarter hit.
So $10-plus million a quarter hit.
Okay.
I know you'd talk about it more when you give guidance but just people are already going to have '13 estimates so just wanted to make sure we were clear.
That will conclude our questions-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Matt McGrew for closing remarks.
Thanks Deana.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
Deana and I will be around all day for follow-ups.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Hello everyone.
My name is Charlonne and I will be your conference facilitator.
Good day and welcome to the Danaher Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Results.
Today's conference is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call which we refer to as the supplemental materials are all available in the Investors section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information and will remain available following the call.
As our year-end Form 10-K has not yet been filed we've included as part of the earnings release the fourth quarter and full year income statements year-end balance sheet and year-end cash flow statement.
In addition we have included data in the release reflecting our business segments results to facilitate your analysis.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investors section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until February 5 2013.
The replay is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the confirmation code is 2149164.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the supplemental materials in our annual report on Form 10-K when it is filed for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
All references in these remarks and the accompanying presentation to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's business unless otherwise noted.
I'd also like to note that we'll be making some statements during the call that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
Possible that actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks.
Good morning everyone.
We were pleased by the solid finish to 2012 which was broad based across most of our businesses.
Core revenues grew 3.5% in the fourth quarter with incremental strength most pronounced in Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics Product Identification and Dental.
Additionally the team's application of the Danaher business system led to good earnings growth core margin expansion and outstanding cash flow performance including a record $3 billion of free cash flow generation in the year.
From a geographic perspective high-growth markets grew low double digits with particular strength in Latin America and the Middle East.
China delivered high single-digit growth in the fourth quarter again led by Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics and Dental.
In the U.S.
year-end demand helped drive low single-digit growth in the quarter.
Western Europe was modestly negative.
Of note revenues from the high-growth markets grew to more than 25% of our total revenues in 2012.
While approximately 1/3 of this revenue is generated in China we have also built an increasingly large presence in Latin America with more than $750 million of annual sales; in the Middle East and Africa with about $500 million in sales.
We are proud that we have been able to replicate our success in China in other key growth markets.
High-growth market revenues now surpass those from Western Europe and are a strong base for future growth and serve as a hedge against the uncertain economic outlook in Europe.
In 2012 we strengthened the Danaher portfolio spending $1.8 billion on 14 acquisitions most notably X-Rite and IRIS.
Over the next 2 years we have ample balance sheet capacity to deploy on acquisitions with a continued focus on our strategic growth platforms which now account for more than 90% of total revenues.
So with that as a backdrop let me move to the details of the quarter.
Today we reported fourth quarter diluted net earnings per share of $0.89 representing a record fourth quarter for Danaher and a 12.5% increase as compared to our diluted net EPS last year.
Included in these results is a $0.02 per share benefit from a mark-to-market gain from the change in value of a currency swap agreement.
For the full year diluted net EPS increased 16.5% to $3.23 which includes more than $120 million of second half restructuring.
Revenues for the quarter increased 5.5% to $4.9 billion with core revenues up 3.5%.
Acquisitions increased revenues by 3% partially offset by the negative impact of FX which decreased revenues by 1%.
Our full year 2012 revenues were up 13.5% year-over-year to $18.3 billion with core revenues up 2.5%.
Our year-over-year gross margin for the fourth quarter increased 190 basis points to 51.2% while our operating margin in the fourth quarter increased 80 basis points to 17.3%.
For the full year our gross margin was 51.6% and our operating margin was 17.3%.
If we exclude the impact of the Apex JV our full year operating margin was 17%.
DBS continues to be the primary driver of our outstanding cash flow performance.
2012 operating cash flow was $3.5 billion a 28% increase compared to 2011.
Free cash flow from continuing operations was a record $3 billion and our free cash flow from continuing operations to net income ratio was 132% representing the 21st year in a row where we delivered free cash in excess of net income.
During the quarter we announced the acquisition of 5 businesses with aggregate annual revenues of approximately $250 million and which are expected to strengthen our Environmental Dental and Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics segments.
In 2012 we also repurchased approximately 12.5 million shares of company stock at an average price of about $52 per share.
Turning to our 5 operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement revenues increased 1% for the quarter with core revenues down 2%.
For the full year revenues declined 0.5% with core revenues down 1.5%.
Test &amp; Measurement's reported operating margin was down 280 basis points to 18.7% due to both core revenue declines and higher year-on-year restructuring spending.
Fluke core revenues decreased at a low single-digit rate in the quarter marking an improvement from the double-digit declines we saw earlier in the year.
Bookings turned positive this quarter and we believe this momentum could lead to positive core revenue growth in the first quarter.
Fluke recently launched several new products including the VT02 visual thermometer an innovative entry price point temperature measurement tool with an integrated visual heat map.
At Tektronix core revenues declined at a high single-digit rate a modest improvement from the mid-teens decline experienced in the third quarter.
Sales improved sequentially in North America although demand in Europe Japan and China remains weak.
Despite market softness we continue to receive an industry recognition for our innovative new technologies.
In the quarter Electronics Design Network named TEK's THS 3000 handheld oscilloscope series and Keithley's 2657A high-voltage high-power system SourceMeter to their 100 Hot Products of 2012 list.
Core revenues from our communications businesses grew low single digits in the quarter led by healthy demand for our enterprise tools and network security solutions in most major geographies.
Accelerated product development via DBS at Fluke Networks yielded nearly 50% product vitality in 2012 with 35 new product introductions during the year.
We believe we are gaining market share as a result of this robust portfolio of fiber WiFi and enterprise troubleshooting tools and systems.
Sales at TEK Communications network management solutions declined in the quarter primarily due to difficult prior year comparisons.
We expect this business to return to growth here in the first quarter.
During the fourth quarter TEK Coms launched its Deep Packet Classification solution that enables operators to protect against revenue drain and identify new opportunities from growth -- for growth by deepening their understanding of per subscriber network utilization.
Environmental segment revenues increased 5.5% in the quarter with core revenues increasing 3%.
For 2012 revenues increased 4% with core revenues up 3.5%.
The segment core operating margin was up 150 basis points in the quarter with reported operating margin increasing 110 basis points to 23%.
Water Quality core revenues increased at a low single-digit rate.
At Hach Lange sales of our core lab instrumentation used in industrial applications were particularly good due to -- due in part to the recent launch of the DR 3900 spectrophotometer and the HQD Benchtop meter.
Hach Lange again drove double-digit revenue growth in Latin America this quarter and exceeded $100 million in revenue throughout the region for the full year.
ChemTreat continued its growth streak with the fourth quarter marking its 10th straight quarter of double-digit core revenue growth.
In 2012 revenues eclipsing $350 million up from just over $200 million when we acquired the company in 2007.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's fourth quarter core revenues grew mid-single digits led by healthy dispenser sales in North America.
In Mexico we believe we are capturing significant market share shipping nearly 5 000 dispensers to that country in 2012 to help customers comply with recent regulatory changes.
During the quarter Gilbarco announced the pending acquisition of Automated Fuel Systems Group a leading provider of fuel management solutions to government fleet and mining customers in South Africa.
The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the first quarter.
We also announced the acquisition of Navman Wireless Danaher's first acquisition in the attractive fleet in asset management adjacency.
Navman Solutions enable fleet owners and operators to track and monitor their assets real time achieve savings on fuel and maintenance and manage operator workflows.
Customers here include local business fleets off-road users and construction and mining schools and municipalities and long-haul transporters.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics revenues for the quarter increased 6.5%.
Core revenues were up 7% in the quarter and for the full year revenues increased 40% with core revenues up 4.5%.
Our segment core operating margin was up 160 basis points in the fourth quarter.
However reported operating margin increased 120 basis points from the prior year to 14.2%.
The Diagnostics businesses continued their strong performance with mid-single-digit core growth in the fourth quarter.
At Beckman Coulter Diagnostics core sales grew at a mid-single-digit rate our best quarterly performance since acquiring the business.
Sales were robust in the high-growth markets particularly China where continued government investment in healthcare infrastructure as part of the national healthcare reform has resulted in increased demand for our clinical chemistry and immunoassay analyzers as well as our automation solutions.
We remain bullish on the high-growth markets and believe that we will continue to benefit from our expanding installed base of instruments.
We continue to be impressed by the Beckman team's use of DBS with noticeable improvements in quality and service contributing to improved customer satisfaction and leading to increased profitability.
Radiometer's core sales increased at a low-teens rate led by solid growth of both our core blood gas instruments and AQT immunoassay analyzers.
AQT's installed base now exceeds 1 000 with the number of tests per day per instrument increasing more than 20% over the past year.
Leica Biosystems sales increased at a low double-digit rate with advanced staining and core histology sales up mid-teens and high single digits respectively.
Growth was balanced geographically with North America Europe and China all contributing during the quarter.
We closed the previously announced acquisition of Aperio Technologies a leader in digital pathology.
The combination of Aperio and Leica Biosystems is expected to build upon our existing digital pathology innovation and go-to-market capabilities to foster better outcomes for physicians and patients alike.
We also closed the previously announced acquisition of IRIS International a leading manufacturer of automated in-vitro urinalysis diagnostic systems and consumables.
IRIS' well-respected brand and market position provides an attractive entry point into this fast-growing IVD segment.
Our Life Sciences businesses core revenues increased high single digits in the quarter.
AB SCIEX core revenues -- core sales grew low double digits in the quarter with particular strength in China and North America led by the ramp in sales of our new 6500 Triple Quad system launched earlier this year.
During the quarter we also announced a -- we also opened a new application support and training center in India to assist our customers in this important growth market.
Both AB SCIEX's TripleTOF 5600 and Beckman Coulter's MoFlo Astrios Cell Sorter were part of a ground-breaking research initiative performed by Dr.
Yamanaka at Kyoto University in Japan who was recently awarded the 2012 Nobel Prize in the field of medicine.
Dr.
Yamanaka's work aimed to reprogram adult cells into so-called induced pluripotent stem cells that can be used to cure certain diseases.
This is obviously an outstanding achievement for Dr.
Yamanaka and we are proud to support his research.
Leica Microsystems core sales increased at a mid-teens rate in the quarter with strong demand for our SP8 confocal microscope in most major geographies.
We began shipping the SP8 modular confocal laser-scanning microscope earlier this year and are encouraged by the sales ramp-up in the past couple of months.
Turning to Dental.
Segment revenues increased 3.5% in the quarter with core revenues up 4%.
For the full year core revenues grew 3.5%.
Operating margin increased 430 basis points to 15.2% in the quarter.
We are particularly pleased with Dental's margin performance this year with OP margin increasing from less than 12% in 2011 to 14.5% in 2012.
Dental consumables core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate in the quarter led by robust global sales for our orthodontic solutions general dentistry consumables and infection prevention products.
KaVo core revenues grew at a low single-digit rate led by double-digit growth in North America.
We've seen solid demand for our imaging products in the U.S.
with record quarterly unit shipments of our i-CAT 3D Cone Beam imaging solution.
While Europe remains weak we are pleased by the success of our recently launched E30 mid-price point treatment unit with more than 500 units shipped in the second half of 2012.
Our Dental businesses picked up an impressive 17 Townie Choice Awards as voted on by dentists and dental practitioners in the December Dentaltown Magazine.
Townie's recognized the most reliable products and their peer-recommend products and services across the dental industry are often leading indicators of potential growth.
During the quarter we acquired Aribex a leading provider of portable and handheld imaging systems.
Handheld and portable imaginers are among the fastest-growing segments in the intra-oral imaging systems market with Aribex well positioned to capitalize on this growth as a result of its patent's intellectual property and a robust product pipeline.
Moving to our Industrial Technologies segments revenues increased 10% for the quarter with core revenues up 2.5%.
For the full year revenues grew 6% with core revenues up 1.5%.
Our core operating margin increased 90 basis points in the fourth quarter while our reported operating margin was flat at 18.1% due primarily to the impact of recently acquired businesses.
Product Identification core revenues grew high single digits in the quarter led by solid demand for Videojet's continuous inkjet printers in all major geographies.
During the quarter we launched 4 new products including the 1550 and 1650 next-generation CIJ printers introduced at PACK EXPO in October and a CIJ printer designed and produced in and for China to target pipe-marking applications there.
Videojet has seen great success with localized products in the Asian market introducing 5 new key printers over the past few years for that region.
Esko's core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate in the quarter with good balance globally.
At our analyst meeting in December we showcased Esko's next-generation packaging management software Suite 12 that targets consumer packaged good brand owners.
Customer response thus far to Suite 12 has been very good.
Revenues at X-Rite our largest acquisition of the year grew at a high single-digit rate in the fourth quarter compared to a year ago when it was a stand-alone company.
If you picked up the Wall Street Journal in early December you likely saw Pantone's 2013 Color of the Year announcement emerald green.
Response to the announcement was nothing short of extraordinary with extensive TV and print media coverage as well as blogs Twitter and Facebook all talking up Pantone's pick.
In Motion we saw core revenue growth at a low single-digit rate in the quarter due in part to an easy prior year comparison.
Our core industrial automation and engineered solutions businesses continue to be weak.
We are encouraged by the sequential improvement we've seen at Kollmorgen and by the pickup in order activity which turned positive for the first time in over a year this quarter.
However we believe Motion core revenues will continue to decline year-over-year during the first half of 2013.
So to wrap up the fourth quarter finished obviously strongly contributing to a solid year at Danaher.
Our teams executed well amidst economic uncertainty with record free cash flow superior earnings growth and operating margin expansion throughout the year.
The structural cost actions undertaken in the fourth quarter position us well for further margin expansion and will allow us to fund growth opportunities where they present themselves.
Financially we're well positioned to take advantage of what we believe will be an attractive acquisition environment in 2013.
Given that we now expect to close the pending divestiture of Apex Tool Group within the next 2 weeks and thus will have no earnings contribution either in the quarter or the full year from Apex we are updating our full year 2013 adjusted diluted net earnings per share guidance to $3.32 to $3.47 from a previous GAAP diluted net EPS range of $3.40 to $3.55.
We are initiating first quarter adjusted net EPS guidance of $0.72 to $0.77.
The adjusted guidance excludes the anticipated gain on the disposition of Apex as well as any benefit related to the retroactive reinstatement of certain federal tax provisions contained in the American Tax Relief Act of 2012.
We anticipate low single-digit core growth here in the first quarter.
Thanks Larry.
Charlonne that's the conclusion of the formal comments.
We're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll have our first question from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Guys there's a little bit of a disconnect when you think back to your Investor Day in mid-December you were pretty cautious overall even including Life Sciences and you came in with a pretty strong volume.
And now you're getting a little bit more cautious for 1Q as far as core growth they're giving you [ph].
Was there a pull-forward at all in that last couple of weeks of December in Life Sciences or anything and related to book-to-bill that would give you some concern about the start to the first quarter? Scott I don't think in terms of the big picture there's really any change 6 weeks on here from what we said in New York in mid-December.
Clearly we finished more strongly than we had anticipated even then when we were together.
But I don't think we're at a point here where we would extrapolate too much too soon from that strong finish.
Clearly we saw the new products that we launched midyear in Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics particularly in Life Sciences at AB SCIEX and Leica Micro finish quite strongly both in terms of the underlying order book but also the product we were getting out the door.
I think we would also acknowledge that in Dental another business that kind of led the way here for us in the fourth quarter they probably saw a bit of a surge in demand at the end of the year in part just because of all the uncertainty around tax policy in general and the Section 179 depreciation dynamic particularly.
I think if you look at the exceptionally strong finish we saw in North America in Dental equipment particularly around imaging it's hard not to attribute some of that to the uncertainty around the tax situation.
And I think we saw a nice pickup particularly in the U.S.
It looked more like a sprint to the finish as opposed to anything we're going to call structural at this point in some of the industrial businesses.
Again we mentioned Fluke going positive in the fourth quarter.
PID was quite good.
So I think if you look at Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics for example I think that second half core growth of 3% probably a little bit more indicative of what we we're looking at going forward pretty much in line with that 2% to 5% guide we gave you in New York.
I think Dental again we'd say maybe it's 1 point of a core that we'd adjust downward to try to look at the run rates given what we saw here in North America.
So again I think we're pleased with the finish.
We wouldn't -- but we think it's premature to try to cast that strength too far at this point given what we have seen.
And Scott the other dynamic we have in the first quarter we have one less business day.
And it probably doesn't impact much the 60% of the business that's equipment and instruments but as we look back it definitely impacts the 40% that's consumable.
And that alone probably impacts the first quarter by 0.5 point to 1 point.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Yes.
No that's helpful.
Just as a follow-up guys I mean we've seen a real pickup in China in medical spend I think consistently across most of the companies that we cover and what's your experience here? I mean the sustainability.
I mean there was a history in some of these markets that the government would have big spend cycles for a quarter or 2 and then not spend for another couple quarters.
I mean is there something this time around that might lead us to believe that this is more of a sustainably higher level of spend that is a new trend given government initiatives? I mean how do your guys over there thinking about that? Scott I was in China 2 weeks ago and we spent a fair bit of time on this subject.
I think it's interesting if you just look at our own trends through the course of last year we really saw quite the bifurcation between our industrial businesses and our healthcare businesses both LS&amp;D and Dental.
We were basically up 20% for the full year and we saw that strength throughout the year on the healthcare side of the portfolio.
We were down nearly double digit the first half on the industrial side and our improved overall numbers in China were a function of industrial basically getting to a flat level in the second half.
I think when we look at what's happened in Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics we are clearly the beneficiary of a multi-year buildout with respect to the healthcare delivery particularly in the West but also increased utilization.
And I think that will continue.
That program clearly stood up when others didn't during the government transition here of late.
I think on the Life Science side we're clearly benefiting as others are from the government's effort to build out an indigenous research and development base.
And I'd say that the dental market is still in its infancy and our own execution there has gotten quite good the last couple of years but it was an area where we had clearly underinvested and thus underperformed.
I think we see that as part of a long-term trend just given the demographics in China.
So our sense is that this is not a quarter or 2 but healthcare's important for a whole host of different reasons over there and we're well positioned.
I think on the industrial side what our folks were pointing to was again stability some sequential strengthening but probably a point of view that things get better through the course of the year as we have more certainty as to who's in some of the lower-level jobs as the new regime takes shape.
Once those decisions are made we'll see hopefully an initiation of more spending than we've seen.
Clearly in infrastructure we're keen to see some of that I think given some of the recent headlines around the environment.
We'd be well positioned if that were an area where we saw increased interest both on the -- obviously on the water side.
So I think our view on China for '13 is good.
Again longer-term I just don't see these healthcare trends that we're seeing in our own numbers Scott tailing off.
We just don't.
We'll go next to Jon Wood Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So Beckman Diagnostics like to touch on that.
Looks like that business actually above market for the first time in quite some time in the fourth quarter.
You spoke to some of the high-growth market trends but can you speak to the developed world what you're seeing in that business particularly in the U.S.? And then just comment why is a low single-digit number still relevant vis-à-vis that fourth quarter trend? Yes.
Well I think Jon the outlook as you suggest for this year is still low single digit as opposed to mid-single.
We were at low singles through the first 3 quarters and really thought that's where we would be in the fourth quarter.
I would say that clearly from a geographic perspective the growth we're seeing at Beckman is really a function of if you will stability in the West with strength in the high-growth markets.
I think we still have work ahead of us as we pay off some of the inheritance tax here in the U.S.
again encouraged by retention and win rates in that regard but that's a multi-year effort to get what is fundamentally a business where the consumables drive the growth and that's a function of the installed base.
It's just going to take us a while to do that though again we were very encouraged by the fourth quarter with respect to the AU the new AU series.
I think with respect to Europe I don't think we're really expecting the European market to contribute to growth but stability there even if it's a low single-digit grind down.
If we're executing better as I think we will in 2013 that's not as much of a drag on us as it has been the last couple of years.
So we -- maybe we're conservative with respect to what we're capable of delivering in this market in the West but I think at least here in '13 the general mix will be similar to what we've seen.
We can do better.
Obviously we'd love to do that but really see that mid-single-digit growth more in '14 than this year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's good color.
I know you're going to refrain from kind of committing on the FDA front but anything in your correspondence with them that would suggest kind of that troponin submission is further out than we may think? Or has the feedback from that organization been just again procedural at this point? I guess I'm looking for any color you're willing to share on where we are on the troponin situation in the U.S.
Jon well I appreciate the way you frame that because as you know our practice has been to I think respect the sanctity of the dialogue with the agency and not be too public with the details.
I would characterize the conversation as constructive productive and ongoing.
So we've I think publicly tried to avoid being too specific about where this conversation takes us and the time frame in which we get to final resolution.
I think we continue to be optimistic that we will have that product on the market in the future.
Again it's tough to put a finger on the calendar as to exactly when but we're no less convinced that that will happen in time as we work through the topic with the agency.
Again I would reiterate that while that is an open switch here in the U.S.
it continues to be a product in the market in many other places around the world.
And with so many of the other improvements that we're making at Beckman in the U.S.
that customers can see in terms of quality in terms of service other new product introductions the way our call patterns are set up there's just so many positive effects from the implementation of DBS that even without the troponin assay in our arsenal today you're seeing those improvements in retention rates and win rates.
So I understand the focus.
It's a very fair question.
But customers weigh a lot of different things when they're making a decision.
And increasingly many of those other things are in Beckman's favor and obviously when troponin is back on the market that'll just be one more check on our side of the ledger but we're not there today.
We'll go next to Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Larry could you give a little more color on the positive bookings turn at Fluke I mean in terms of geography or end market or any other color? Yes I would say that really what we saw Shannon probably more than anything was a little bit better performance here in the U.S.
I think Europe continues to be a bit of a struggle for us.
I think the high-growth markets again broadly speaking have continued to be really the highlight for us at Fluke.
We got a little bit of a benefit I think as we wound down the year as we saw some of the inventory adjustments in China really come to a close.
But we're not expecting as you know a big pop back in T&amp;M.
Generally Fluke will be an important part of that but we like to think that T&amp;M is up in line with the corporation in '13 and I think Fluke will be an important part of that on the instrument side to be sure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in Motion you said the bookings there turned positive I think.
I don't know if it was for all of Motion or just Kollmorgen.
Why do you expect that -- the core revenue growth to still be negative in the first half of '13? We have some tough one-off comparisons there in the Motion businesses Shannon and again I think given some of the underlying demand trends that we see I think it's going to be sluggish there through the first half where we have vertical exposure particularly in TEK and certainly in some of the renewables.
We had a very tough 2012 but we still had some business that will create a little bit of a year-on-year comparison challenge for us here in the first half as well.
But hopefully we're -- clearly with the guide that we gave you last month we think Industrial TEK will really be the -- probably in the 5 hole relative to performance on the core side in '13 unfortunately in part or in large part because of what we'll see at Motion.
The obvious contrast there is Product ID which finished strongly.
I think it's really going to be one of our outperformers here in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no underlying real change in the trend in Motion then? I don't think so.
I think in terms of the industrial capital equipment markets that we serve they have been challenging.
They've been challenging here to a degree certainly in Europe and in China.
I think that continues here for a couple of quarters as we see it.
We'll go next to Jeff Sprague Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Larry I was wondering if you could address deals a little bit and really the essence of my question is just the environment and valuations.
Obviously the stock market is maybe frothy.
Maybe it's not but we've been on a nice run.
So it sounds like you see things in the pipeline but how do you balance that against valuations and the ability to kind of get things done on reasonable terms? Jeff I think we are optimistic about getting things done in 2013.
I think that's a function of the pipeline to be sure and it's a pipeline again rarely dominated by public companies.
I don't want to suggest that public company valuations are irrelevant to us and I'm hopeful that we do some public company deals this year.
But a fair bit of what we do is often on the private side be it with families or independent owners and at times PE but PE's really not a big source for us let alone a real competitor.
I think one of the dynamics that really works to our favor is our breadth of scope and where we would like to build out.
Clearly in all 5 of our segments we've got areas where we clearly would like to put capital to work.
So when certain segments might be bid up our discipline stays intact.
We'll move into some other areas and be a bit more active there.
Through a cycle I think you see a pretty good -- you've seen a pretty good distribution of the deployment of capital.
So I think in terms of how we work through that ultimately the backstop is the discipline that I think we've demonstrated over a long period of time strong focus obviously on the strategic quality of the business operationally our ability to add value.
But when the math doesn't work and we can't generate positive returns cash-on-cash returns for our shareholders I think Dan and I are very comfortable letting things go.
I think it's as simple as that.
LLC</strong> Can you give us a sense if you have the numbers even roughly? Maybe Dan has them.
$1.8 billion spent on 2012 on 14 deals kind of the aggregate valuation on that basket and how it stacked up [ph] relative to history? It's probably in the zone of -- X-Rite would be the biggest 1 and that was sub 10x EBITDA.
IRIS was -- so probably overall I'd say about 10x EBITDA maybe 10 to 11.
I would say in that $1.8 billion of spend and it's kind of the benefit of doing bolt-ons and that's really -- and adjacency deals a lot of margin expansion opportunity across that revenue base.
So I think that's a 10 11x that we can get to sort of 8x without any revenue growth and that's obviously the benefit of when we're doing these kind of bolt-on and adjacency-type deals.
And if you look at -- so I feel pretty good about the valuation overall.
I didn't feel like we really had to stretch for any of those deals and all sort of in that zone when we think we'll exceed a 10% return within 3 years.
LLC</strong> Right.
And just a follow-up on healthcare Larry you hit a lot of it with your comments a moment ago on Beckman.
But just overall as the calendar rolled over is there a measurable sense of different momentum whether it's a positive because of the alleviation of the uncertainty of who's President or the negative because of uncertainty about device tax? Is there -- just across the whole fleet if you will in the U.S.
anything to discern here early on? No.
Again I think what we saw in terms of the acceleration at year end perhaps is more of a bit of uncertainty.
Some of which has been addressed clearly on the tax side but I don't think anyone is really taking too much for granted here.
Clearly the medical device excise tax is something that we're going to have to work through as are others not only in Diagnostics but also in Dental.
Really doesn't impact the Life Science space the research space directly.
So I think it's hard to discern anything that's material or structural that's different particularly here in D.C.
I think folks know that while there was some clarity in terms of who's going to be President and in the short term clarity around fiscal policy in many respects that can was kicked down the road and there are going to be open questions still to be addressed through the course of the year.
But I think by and large where we play in terms of research tools our new product cycles position us well to get our own fair share of the spend there.
Clearly on the Dental side an improved stock market.
Just a little bit of a better tone in the U.S.
should help patient traffic.
We can execute well there.
And I think on the Diagnostics side again given our starting point at Beckman we can make a good bit of our own luck there.
And if you look at Radiometer and Leica Bio as an indicator of that potential while we've never said we'll be a high single low double-digit grower at Beckman Dx we do think in the short-term we can offset any headwinds that might be out there.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just first question can you give a little clarity on the 100 basis points of additional SG&amp;A as percentage of revenue this year versus last? Just maybe dive into that tear it apart? Steve I'd have to look at that off-line.
I suspect part of that is the full year impact of Beckman.
Last year we only had Beckman for 6 months and I think if we normalize that you probably would have seen some SG&amp;A leverage.
So I think it's a little apples to oranges given the Beckman full year versus 6 months a year ago.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes that'd be great if we could do that off-line then.
I'd like to just make sure on a pro forma basis to understand what's happening on the G&amp;A part.
But overall I mean G&amp;A you're not -- are you investing globally in any additional initiatives beyond expectation or where you were? Or...
Well I think the attitude Steve is still to be lean and tight from a G&amp;A perspective but certainly as we've gotten bigger and the high-growth markets have become more important we've been reshaping what constitutes if you will the Danaher overhead piece so we have more capability on the ground in places like China from a Danaher perspective.
Jon Clark as you know one of our group executives member of the Danaher leadership team is now in China as the President of Danaher China really to make sure that we're doing more as Danaher China in that regard.
I think similarly as these platforms have really taken on a critical mass there are things we're going to be able to do in Life Sciences in Dental much as we have in Water and in T&amp;M as a platform.
Again we want to keep the G&amp;A lean but I think we're also going to be putting and trying to achieve more strategically in terms of harvesting synergies at a platform level.
Again we want to avoid bureaucracy.
We want to avoid undue costs but I think these regional and platform level efforts have really paid some early dividends for us.
And that's probably what's most top of mind for me and Dan as we look at the -- not only the level of the G&amp;A spend but the nature and shape of it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the growth side a little more specifically where are you in terms of the regulatory approvals for Ballast Water and on the IMO and Coast Guard? How are you thinking about that product on the approval path [indiscernible]? Well a little like other regulatory approvals the -- while the strategic intent and the spend level is unchanged the time frame there relative to our certifications is a bit more unpredictable Steve.
But clearly the internal testing that we've talked about at Trojan is underway.
I think we're hopeful that some of that the validation work in essence is completed here in the first half of 2013.
We did get our first installation late last year.
Pleased with that.
But it's been a bit unpredictable which is why we really haven't laid in a lot in terms of '13 contribution at Trojan from Ballast Water.
Next Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about maybe some of the new product momentum you're seeing in some of the key businesses whether it's on the Life Science side or also in the T&amp;M business? Ross I'm sorry I didn't catch the first part of your question.
Could you please...
Research Division</strong> Sorry new product momentum new launches sort of key things to look out for over the course of the year in terms of contributing to growth sort of outside just the macro.
Yes.
I think we again are clearly in Life Sciences particularly in a very strong new product position.
I think at SCIEX with the 4500 the 6500 you're seeing strong traction that's something to watch.
That's not a 1-quarter dynamic.
I think similarly at Leica Micro we're in a good place.
The SP8 will continue to be an important growth driver for us as we ramp there and that's really the way I would think about Life Sciences.
Again Diagnostics as you well know is a little bit tougher to turn.
But I think as we ramp the AU series the new clinical chem family at Beckman we're going to be in particularly good shape.
And as you go to the shows this spring ASMS and the like I think you're going to see SCIEX Leica Beckman all continue to launch really a steady bucket of new product introductions.
I think in T&amp;M again I think at Fluke particularly in thermography we're encouraged by the early response to this new visual thermometer.
There are other products that we plan to get out in '13 really in the back of the -- some of the technology that was brought in last year.
I think in T&amp;M particularly on the scope side we're in a good place.
We've talked about some of the awards that we've seen with the launches that are still due to ramp through the course of 2012 and there's more to come in that regard.
Clearly innovation is important in both of those segments.
We'll continue to invest in R&amp;D spend a lot of time deploying the DBS tools to accelerate those product launches and drive as much commercialization success as we can.
Research Division</strong> And -- great.
Maybe just one other quick one.
So I'm looking at sort of indication on the stock this morning.
It's off a couple bucks.
I'm looking at my inbox.
People are obviously talking about sort of the guidance commentary and I think in general it's very consistent with what you talked about at JPMorgan not long ago.
I mean as we think about sort of the progression over the year really is it just sort of we're early in the year sort of a function of we're just starting to maybe turn a bit on the cycle and we're not sure where we are.
I mean what are you looking for on either the macro front or just within the business in terms of getting more comfortable and maybe a more constructive outlook in terms of core growth in the business for the year? Ross again I think you're spot on.
We're trying this morning not to say anything that is fundamentally different than what we said in New York in mid-December or what we said at the JPMorgan Conference earlier this month.
I think we're pleased certainly with a stronger finish to the year.
I think we're acknowledging some of that might have been a pull-forward from 2013.
But I think all things being equal we think we're looking at a challenged growth environment in the West one that's getting better and the one could continue to improve sequentially through the course of the year.
But it's not going to be a high-growth market story for us as it will be for most companies.
In terms of increasing our guidance in any form I think 6 weeks on is just again premature.
But we'll certainly as is our practice literally look at everything how China's ramping not only in terms of what we're shipping but order books other leading indicators looking at POS and T&amp;M particularly on the instrument side will be another important marker for us.
But I think that the way we're going to operate in this environment is really no different than way we've operated before in terms of recognizing the macro reality and the challenges that are out there and trying to make as much of our own luck as we possibly can.
But again there's no change here from what we said earlier this month let alone the middle of last month.
And I think we're pleased with the restructuring we got done here in the fourth quarter as Larry alluded to over $120 million.
I think we're going to track well to those savings here in 2013.
And one of the challenges that we had was the Test &amp; Measurement segment margins particularly in the second half which were down like 300 basis points year-on-year.
That's going to get better here and both because growth is getting a little better there but also because that segment had a disproportionate amount of the restructuring here.
I think we're feeling better about how T&amp;M is shaping up here early in the year.
We'll go next to Julian Mitchell Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I guess just firstly when you think about the gross margin you've had 3 years in a row now where it's been above kind of 50%.
It's up the last couple of years and you've done a bunch of restructuring.
So when you think sort of longer-term -- I mean do you think that kind of mid-50s run rate is achievable obviously depending on timing of and size of deals? Julian I think we do have gross margin expansion potential here.
As Dan just highlighted a moment ago clearly one of our higher gross margin businesses certainly one of our higher BCM businesses T&amp;M had a tough 2012 and they're back on a more normal trajectory.
That's accretive in that regard.
Clearly as we drive the installed bases of these new products in LS&amp;D we get good gross margin sales in the short term but overtime as those -- as that installed base grows and the higher-margin consumables course through those instruments that helps us as well.
You're right.
We've done a lot of restructuring the last few years.
We don't have a lot teed up here in the next 90 to 120 days but there's always structural costs still to come as well.
So I wouldn't put a target out there because as you alluded to the next acquisition may come in in a way that helps or hurts the gross margin temporarily.
But I don't think we've in any way pinned the gross margin number on the ceiling here just yet.
Research Division</strong> And then just in terms of your own plans around R&amp;D and CapEx I mean R&amp;D to sales is sort of flattish at about 6% in the quarter in the last couple of years.
Is that a good run rate going forward? And then on CapEx that was up by about 5% I think in Q4.
How are you feeling about your CapEx plans for the year ahead? Julian we certainly focus on the R&amp;D figure more so than we do the CapEx.
I think CapEx is probably going to be in what $550-ish million range this year just to give you a number there.
I don't think again from an R&amp;D perspective when you look at where we finished and where we're likely to be 6 6.5 in that band that we're really managing R&amp;D with those ratios foremost in our minds.
I think what we're trying to do is make sure that strategically we know what we need to be doing to drive growth investing in both technology and new product development and then positioning ourselves to fund those programs within businesses across the portfolio that represent the best opportunities for us.
And if that means we ought to spend a little bit more or we could spend a little bit less we'll do that.
I don't think we're of the school that you really want to just manage R&amp;D through that ratio because you can end up I think spending money that you don't necessarily need.
But clearly part of what we did with the restructuring as we alluded to through the course of last year was to set ourselves up this year to increase any growth funding be it R&amp;D be it on the sales and marketing side as well perhaps that might be warranted as opportunities come forward.
We'll have our last question from Deane Dray Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> We're coming down to the wire on Apex.
Can you just remind us the after-tax proceeds the gain and then the use of the proceeds? I know we've -- you've baked in some buybacks already but just those targets for 2013.
Sure Deane.
The -- our half of the JV we expect gross proceeds of about $800 million after-tax proceeds of a little bit over I think $650 million.
We'll report a gain of about $0.19 a share here in the first quarter.
Given we've -- we purchased about 12.5 million shares of stock here in the second half of last year in the kind of low 50s I think our expectation is the lion's share is close to targeted towards May here in '13.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Larry in terms of the Water side of Danaher the 2 businesses that I'd like to touch on 1 is on ChemTreat very quiet success story 10 quarters of double digits.
Just remind us what the strategy there has been because a lot of people thought this is a chemicals business but it's more of a solutions business.
But you've grown this gain share over this time period and just you're targeting specific end markets that are more attractive.
That's first question.
And then second one on Trojan some pushouts in the third quarter didn't sound like that repeated in the fourth quarter just give us some update on that too please.
Sure.
You bet.
Well I think that at ChemTreat the story in many respects is a simple one.
This is a business largely a domestic business that has just done over time before we were involved but clearly over the last 10 quarters an exceptional job of taking very good care of their customers.
You're right.
They transact typically through the supply of water treatment chemicals but what they -- what customers really buy though is the expertise the service and the quality of the support that their local ChemTreat team provide.
I think being in a position where we've been able to build that team over time continue to enhance the overall service and quality levels of the business has really been just a daily execution story much more so than any grand strategy.
And again our hats are off to the team at ChemTreat.
They've just been outstanding partners with us and we're really proud of the results they've delivered.
Trojan's been another very strong story for us going through I think a couple of tough quarters here to be sure as we've seen some of the bigger projects roll off around the world and at the municipal market particularly around some of the bigger-ticket capital programs tighten up here.
But I think as we look forward at Trojan continue to be convinced around the UV disinfection opportunity.
Trojan's position I think you know Deane better than anybody the Ballast Water opportunity is out there.
I think it's going to come just a matter of getting the timing down.
So there's some uncertainty in the short term but I think longer term again that's going to be a meaningful opportunity for Trojan on top of what they do today for their municipal and their industrial customers.
And at this time I'll turn the conference back over to Mr.
McGrew to offer any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks for joining us everybody.
Dan and I are around here in the morning for follow-ups.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Lisa and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call our first quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investor section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information and will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of this call will be archived in the Investor section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until April 25 2013.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the confirmation code is 5544079.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the supplemental materials and our first quarter Form 10-Q for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
All references in these remarks and the accompanying presentation to earnings revenues and other company specific financial metrics relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's businesses unless otherwise noted.
I'd also like to note that we'll be making some statements during the call that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are the subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
It is possible that actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we may make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether a result of new information future events or developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks and good morning everyone.
Before we start I'd like to take a moment to let our associates our friends and the people of Boston know that they are in our thoughts in the wake of this week's most tragic and unfortunate news.
We entered the quarter with modest expectations regarding global growth and that played out largely as we anticipated with our core revenue growth coming in at 1%.
From a geographic perspective high-growth markets which represent 24% of our business grew to high single-digit rate in the quarter.
China was up low double-digits led again by our Dental and Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics businesses which grew in excess of 20%.
Also encouraging was the double-digit growth we saw in our Water Quality and Product Identification businesses in China.
In contrast sales in the U.S.
were flat which was slightly below our outlook while Western Europe as expected was down low single-digits.
Despite this low-growth environment the Danaher Business System continues to help us drive share gains margin and cash flow.
In the quarter DBS growth tools helped accelerate new product introductions across many of our businesses and coupled with our go-to-market initiatives we believe drove share gains at Kerr Videojet ChemTreat Tektronix Communications Esko and Radiometer.
We were encouraged by our strong gross margin performance up 50 basis points or $90 million year-over-year to 52.3% which allowed us to sustain our core growth investments in both new product development and sales and marketing.
We remain active and optimistic on the M&amp;A front.
We announced the signing of over $300 million of new acquisitions during the quarter.
With our strong free cash flow ample balance sheet capacity and the proceeds from the recent sale of the Apex Tools JV we now expect to have about $8 billion available for capital deployment over the next 2 years.
So with that as a backdrop let me move to the details of the quarter.
Today we reported first quarter adjusted diluted net earnings per share of $0.75 up 2.5% relative to the comparable amount in the first quarter of last year and representing another record first quarter for Danaher.
Excluding the impact on prior year earnings of the Apex JV net earnings per share increased 6%.
Revenues for the quarter increased 3% to $4.4 billion with core revenues up 1%.
Acquisitions increased revenues by 3% which was partially offset by negative currency translation of 1%.
Our gross margin for the first quarter increased 50 basis points year-over-year to 52.3%.
Our reported operating margin in the first quarter was 16.4% with core margins up 20 basis points.
First quarter operating cash flow was $637 million with free cash flow from continuing operations of $520 million.
We expect full year free cash flow to exceed $3 billion.
Our free cash flow to net income conversion ratio excluding the gain on the sale of the Apex JV and the impact from $40 million of cash payments related to our fourth quarter restructuring was greater than 100%.
Turning to our 5 operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement revenues increased 1% for the quarter while core revenues were flat.
While core margins were down 25 basis points year-on-year segment margin saw a significant sequential improvement over the prior 2 quarters.
Fluke core revenues grew at low single-digit rate their first quarter of positive core growth since the fourth quarter 2011.
Mid-single-digit growth in North American industrial end markets and high single-digit growth in high-growth markets was partially offset by softness in Europe and in other North American markets.
Last quarter we highlighted Fluke's launch of the VT02 visual thermometer which may you have heard about as it was featured in March in a broad nationwide range of radio campaign.
Using DBS growth tools Fluke identified a white space opportunity in an adjacent product category and developed this innovative entry price point temperature measurement tool with an integrated visual heat map to meet customer needs.
We've been encouraged by the sales ramp of the VT02 in both the U.S.
and Europe.
At Tektronix core revenues declined at a low double-digit rate with continued weakness across many end markets.
Despite difficult market conditions we continue to innovate and increase the breadth of our product portfolio at Tektronix.
During the quarter we launched a multiphase PA4000 Power Analyzer which will be used by engineers on the management for the development of high-efficiency electrical products such as motors for hybrid vehicles electric vehicles and household appliances.
This innovative new product is Tektronix's initial entry into this adjacent high-growth segment.
Core revenues from our Communications businesses grew at a low double-digit rate in the quarter driven by demand for both our enterprise tools and network security solutions globally.
Tektronix Communications' low-teens growth was driven by demand for its mobile carrier network management solutions in North America and China.
Arbor Networks network security solutions remain in very high demand as DdoS attack have increased in both frequency and size.
Both sales and orders increased greater than 25% in the quarter as we won several new service provider accounts in high-growth markets and saw strong growth in our U.S.
enterprise business.
Environmental segment revenues increased 4.5% in the quarter with core revenues up 1%.
Core operating margins expanded 45 basis points with reported operating margin flat at 18.6%.
Water Quality core revenues grew at a low single-digit rate in the quarter.
Hach Lange core revenues grew low single-digits with double-digit growth in China and the Middle East offsetting flat demand in the developed markets.
Healthy North American industrial activity particularly in beverage and power was partially offset by weaker U.S.
municipal demand.
ChemTreat marked their 11th straight quarter of double-digit core revenue growth.
Latin American core revenues were up mid-teens in the quarter as expansion efforts into the Mexican market continued to gain traction including several large wins in the quarter with industrial accounts.
Over the last 4 years the Mexican business has grown over 300% driven by the best-in-class go-to market initiatives.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's first quarter core revenues were essentially flat in both the developed and high-growth markets with strong growth in Russia and India offset by difficult comparison from prior year regulatory changes.
We saw solid growth in our payment business in the quarter with shipments on several large-scale rollouts throughout Asia.
New payment technologies and innovations at retail service stations and convenience stores is an attractive growth driver for GVR.
Highlighting this during the quarter GVR announced a partnership with PayPal to develop digital payment and other mobile solutions for customers worldwide.
Using GVR's Passport POS customers will be able to pay using their PayPal account with their mobile devices eliminating the need to carry cash or credit cards.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
Revenues for the quarter increased 1.5% with core revenues up 2.5%.
Segment core operating margins increased slightly while our reported operating margin decreased 60 basis points from the prior year period to 12.7%.
Our Diagnostics businesses saw a good start to the year with mid-single-digit core growth.
At Beckman Coulter core sales increased at a low single-digit rate despite the impact of 1 less day in the quarter with growth in all major product categories.
This marks the fourth straight quarter of low single-digit or better core growth at Beckman with high-growth markets continuing to drive this performance.
Beckman's best-in-class automation capabilities an increase in the cadence of new product development and the significant quality and service improvements we've seen over the last 18 months position them well for continued growth.
We anticipate low single-digit growth for the rest of this year and expect to be on track for mid-single-digit growth in 2014.
During the quarter we launched 2 new products the DxH 600 hematology system and the Power Express total lab automation system.
The DxH 600 extends the hematology portfolio to better address the needs of larger-volume clinical labs.
Power Express continues to enhance Beckman's leadership in clinical automation by enabling labs to connect multiple analyzers easily to improve workflow increase efficiency and reduce cost.
Radiometer's core sales increased at a high single-digit rate in the quarter with growth in most major geographies and particular strength in China and the Middle East which were both up over 30% in the quarter.
Our AQT line was up 40% in the quarter and we hit a milestone with our 1 000th instrument placement since launch.
Last week we closed a previously announced acquisition of HemoCue a leader on hemoglobin and glucose point-of-care testing.
Leica Biosystems sales increased at a low single-digit rate in the quarter led by double-digit core histology growth.
Advanced staining revenues decreased mid-single-digits as solid demand in North America and China was more than offset by a decline in Western Europe where we are transitioning from a distribution to a direct-sales model in parts of that region.
Our Life Sciences businesses core revenues increased low single-digits in the quarter.
AB SCIEX core sales grew mid-single-digits led by the applied and pharma markets.
We've been pleased with a very strong uptake of our new 6500 Triple Quad and QTRAP systems since their launch late last year.
During the quarter AB SCIEX announced a multiyear collaboration agreement with the Institute for Systems Biology in Seattle for the development of new methods in technologies and proteomics research using mass spectrometry.
This research led by 2012 National Medal of Science award winner Dr.
Leroy Hood will help develop a new approach to medical care by redefining biomarker research and complementary genomics through qualitative swap proteomics analysis using the AB SCIEX 5600 TripleTOF.
We are pleased to support both the ISB and Dr.
Hood in this groundbreaking research.
Leica Microsystems core sales declined low single-digits with strong sales in Life Sciences offset by weakness in industrial and medical markets.
The recently launched SP8 modular confocal laser scanning microscope continues to be well received globally and was a strong contributor to growth in the Life Science market during the quarter.
Turning now to Dental.
Our segment revenues grew 3% in the quarter with core revenues up 2.5%.
Core operating margin increased 20 basis points while reported operating margin expanded 40 basis points to 13.1%.
Dental consumables core revenues grew low single digits in the quarter led by our sales for general dentistry consumables and infection prevention products across most major geographies.
In addition our implant business was up mid-teens.
During the quarter Ormco launched the Lythos Digital Impression System.
Lythos allows an orthodontist to have a complete digital orthodontic workflow beginning with the scanning of the patient's mouth through the creation of a 3D treatment plan to the custom design and manufacture of the orthodontic appliance.
KaVo core revenues increased mid-single-digits with robust demand for instruments and imaging products.
KaVo launched 6 new products in the quarter at 2 of the largest trade shows in the industry the Chicago Midwinter Dental Meeting and the International Dental Show in Germany.
New products included the i-CAT Flex [ph] which allows for a full 3D scan at a lower radiation dose than a panoramic X-ray.
In addition Instrumentarium launched a CR reader an easy-use cost-effective phosphor plate imaging reader.
We also introduced an innovative Twisted File Adaptive endodontic product which self-adjusts between a rotary and reciprocating motion providing the clinician with exceptional control during root canals.
Moving to our Industrial Technologies segment.
Revenues increased 7% for the quarter while core revenues declined 1.5%.
Our core operating margins expanded 105 basis points in the first quarter while our reported operating margin increased 30 basis points to 20.9%.
Our Motion businesses core revenues declined at a high single-digit rate in the quarter with the same weakness in most major geographies.
Our sales into U.S.
distribution were particularly soft.
Product Identification core revenues were up mid-single-digits with growth across all major geographies.
Videojet enjoyed high single-digit growth in service and mid-single-digit growth in both equipment and consumables in the first quarter.
During the quarter we began shipping both the both the 1550 and the 1650 next-generation CIJ printers which are targeted primarily at customers in the food and beverage markets where predictability of uptime and avoidance of errors is critical.
Initial customer feedback has been extremely positive on these new products and we expect the placements will continue to increase through the balance of the year.
At Esko core revenue increased more than 10% in the quarter led by exceptional performance in high-growth markets including Latin America and China.
DBS continues to have a significant impact in driving growth at Esko.
Using dynamic resource allocation to fund internally go-to-market investments in high-growth markets Esko has more than doubled the feet-on-the-street in Latin America and China since our acquisition in 2011.
Over the same period sales in those geographies have grown in excess of 35%.
Revenues at X-Rite grew at a mid-single-digit rate in the first quarter compared to a year ago when it was a standalone company.
X-Rite becomes part of our reported core number later this quarter.
While still early we're excited about X-Rite's contribution to the PID platform and the new collaboration and go-to-market opportunities that they bring.
An example of this collaboration is the PantoneLIVE where we recently launched 2 Illustrator plug-ins that were codeveloped with Esko.
These plug-ins provide brand owners with instant access to essential brand color standards as well as the PantoneLIVE Color Libraries directly from within their development software.
Reception of PantoneLIVE in the marketplace has exceeded our expectations with orders tripling sequentially from the fourth quarter.
So to wrap up the year started largely as we expected.
DBS has helped drive share gains margins and cash flow in this low-growth environment.
We believe our solid recurring revenue base the structural cost actions executed in 2012 and the significant amount of capital available to deploy position us well for the balance of this year and beyond.
We are initiating second quarter adjusted diluted net earnings per share guidance of $0.80 to $0.85 which assumes 1% to 2% core growth.
We are also reaffirming our full year 2013 adjusted diluted net earnings per share guidance of $3.32 to $3.47.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal comments.
Lisa we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just starting off with the Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics margin.
It was about 100 bps lighter than I guess we were expecting.
Can you just talk about a kind of what the margin looks like at Beckman and then if there was anything else that drove that weakness? Yes.
I think with respect to the -- what you're seeing there Steve is we knew given some of the investments in the segment that we were making particularly on the sales and marketing and R&amp;D side that margins were going to be tight in LS&amp;D.
That said -- and I say that both with respect to the Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics businesses as well as at Dental.
We had a couple of big trade shows in Dental for example that we had to work through.
But that said clearly the revenue picture in LS&amp;D particularly in LS was softer in the end than we anticipated.
And that certainly put some of the pressure on the margins that you see.
But also in addition to the revenue I think it's important to point out that we had a couple of not necessarily one-time but I think special situations in the quarter on the expense side that we think mitigate as we go forward.
One was this conversion at Leica Bio with respect to the distribution to direct sales model.
We had an opportunity to move forward in that regard.
I think that made sense strategically.
That didn't help us from a cost perspective and practically from a volume perspective as we worked through that late in the quarter.
In addition as the regulatory front evolved over the quarter with a number of the Diagnostics businesses we had an opportunity to accelerate some of our spending ahead of submissions.
And we thought again positioning ourselves to get those new products approved made sense so we went ahead and did that.
Research Division</strong> So can you -- I mean I guess R&amp;D for the company was up 40 basis points year-over-year.
I mean 6.7% is a really big number.
Can you let us know I know you disclose it in your Ks but maybe in LS&amp;D what was -- I would assume it was up a little bit more in than the 40 basis points.
It was.
And it also -- given some of this distribution transition we're going through some of the sales and marketing was also higher.
We think that all sort of begin to even out here in Q2 so you'll see I think more normalized margins in LSD in Q2.
Research Division</strong> And can you give any kind of magnitude Dan around what the R&amp;D was up as a percentage of sales in LSD? We were up combined over 100 basis points between R&amp;D and sales and marketing as a percent of revenues year-on-year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That makes -- and then when you talk about these regulatory filings I mean is this just greater-than-expected spending than you would have initially thought as you fix the business? Or is this like -- are these like -- is this more proactive with new products? Yes.
Steve it's probably somewhere in between.
I mean it really is about what we do and when we do it.
So some of it is strictly timing.
And at the same time as we work through the plans for those submissions with the regulatory bodies sometimes we'll -- as time marches on you get a better sense of the scope and the work required.
So we thought accelerating some of that spend wasn't frankly an opportunity despite the pressure that you allude to here.
And again I think the stronger those submissions are the sooner they're in the better off we are relative to getting those products out and launched in time.
Research Division</strong> Just one last question.
It's probably a pretty stupid question but I'll ask it anyway.
I guess with the day sales with a comp on the -- a tougher comp on the weather a lot of noise going on out there and some pretty terrible reports coming out so far.
On a scale of 1 to 10 if 1 is 2009 and kind of 10 is the ideal operating environment what do you think -- how do you describe kind of the current environment you're operating in? It's just kind of hard to tell how bad the trend is here.
I'm just curious as to your high-level take on that.
Yes.
Steve I would say that we came into the quarter knowing that we were going to be missing a day.
I think we came into the quarter knowing that Good Friday would be the last day of the quarter.
So all of that was knowable.
What we saw through the quarter was frankly that our consumables business which as you know represents about 40% of our overall sales was very much in line with our expectations.
And if you adjust for the day that we missed and put aside all the end of March noise I think we were good.
I think where we fell a little bit short here with respect to the quarter was really in equipment right? I mean at 60% we thought we'd be up a couple of hundred basis points and that's where we got squeezed particularly in the U.S.
as we saw some business soften in March when we thought we would finish more strongly.
I wouldn't say it's bad.
I think we saw the normal uptick in March just wasn't pronounced in equipment again in the U.S.
principally around some of the higher-ticket products.
We've mentioned TEK.
I think we've mentioned Motion as well in the distribution.
So in the grand scheme of things I don't think we're -- we're not necessarily excited about the macro numbers that came out here the last 3 or 4 weeks.
But that said we missed the top end of the core range by about what $30 million.
If we'd hit that I don't think we would be talking about some of the OP and EPS shortfalls here.
But that's the way it played out.
I think at this point our sense is that while it's early and we don't have everything that we'll have in time the shortfalls again largely a macro dynamic.
March didn't finish as strongly as we would have anticipated.
But on a relative basis business-by-businesses we think we're doing pretty well.
I think as we look at April things would come back in a couple of pockets in the wake of some of that end of March softness.
But again probably too early to read too much into that.
Certainly too early to read much into first couple of weeks of April relative to the equipment side of the business because while things get pushed to the right at times it may just be a couple of weeks.
Sometimes those customer decisions may take longer.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
I mean first the big pullback you saw in Motion was a little bit of a surprise when you have that big of a negative.
I mean were the timing issues there that customers just wanted to destock? I mean I think you mentioned some weakness in distribution U.S.
technology.
Is that something that's going to restart here in 2Q? Or do we have some greater underlying weakness here that's more sustainable? Well I think that's -- it's a bit of a mixed bag Scott as we read it today.
I mean you mentioned distribution and TEK.
I mean I think those are 2 different markets for us clearly where we go to market through distribution.
We saw soft sell-out as well as our own sell-in.
Certainly the TEK OEMs that we deal with tend to be customers we deal with directly.
And we certainly saw pockets in TEK that were soft.
I think our view is that as we look at the second quarter if you wanted to pick a segment that's likely to be down it will be Industrial Technologies.
It will be down largely on the back of Motion softness.
Certainly not softness in Product Identification which we think will continue to be one of our better-performing businesses here in the near term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I want to move to 2 other quick things.
I mean the medical businesses have been strong a couple of quarters in a row here in China.
Are you seeing that broadening out at all to the other businesses like Fluke for example and the more shorter-cycle businesses? Yes.
We certainly saw I think a broadening of the strength in China.
Again the first quarter is a little hard to read sequentially given the timing of the new year there.
But that said I think we were pleased with the overall print in China both at depth and its breadth.
And as we have worked through our reviews of late with our teams there I think by and large there are a few exceptions where guys aren't feeling good about the year it's really more a matter of this point of calibrating what sort of growth to expect there.
But they'll definitely I think be one of our better high-growth markets here and the rest of the way.
I'd say Scott on the industrial side it was instead of all being down or flat it was mixed.
So I guess that's a little bit encouraging.
PID and water had good real good start to the year in China.
But I'd contrast that and talk [ph] a little bit of a positive sign but I would say that T&amp;M and Motion didn't -- their numbers were down and sequentially did not feel any better.
So uneven but a couple of pockets a little better.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just last question on price.
When we have this type of a slow macro environment and it's been largely probably 7 of the last 10 years has been pretty good pricing environment now we're seeing some weakness in commodities.
I mean what's the outlook for price from here? Well I think the price outlook in and around a point of price as we move forward ought to be something that we should achieve.
I think on a price cost equation Scott in general pretty pleased.
And clearly having the gross margin up 50 basis points here $90 million in dollar terms year-on-year I would suggest we're executing pretty well not only on the price cost side but also in terms of productivity our Danaher wide procurement activities as well as frankly bringing new products to market with higher gross margins which give us the benefit of the mix up.
So if there's one thing I think we're particularly comfortable with it's that effect.
And clearly we'll get I think additional impact from the 2012 restructuring in the gross margin mix as we move through the year.
We'll take our next question from Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just you mentioned $8 billion of capital available for deployment over the next 2 years.
I think that's up from $5-plus billion that you used to discuss.
Can you maybe talk about given the current environment how your -- where you're thinking about deploying the additional capital? And you obviously mentioned a one positive comment in the release.
But give us maybe more of a flavor for how this might transpire.
Steve the $8 billion figure in contrast to the prior frame is really a function I think of being on the other side of Apex.
Certainly a look here at our cash position which is strong and our view of our cash flow now being $3-plus billion on an annual basis.
And it's really -- it's just that simple.
I think strategically as we think about capital deployment our strategy is in no way changed.
I think our view certainly continues to have a bias toward inorganic growth to supplement what we do organically.
And we'd like to do that across the entire Danaher portfolio.
So as you look today at the way Dan and I and the teams are working together we're working I think funnels that are active across all of our growth platforms.
Clearly we're keen to put that capital work in that fashion.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And the acquisition that you just did the $300 million one you announced in I guess February was in Life Sciences.
I mean how is the industrial pipeline looking or the non-Life Sciences pipeline looking? Steve I would say we're one encouraged by the number of discussions we're having.
And I would say it's noticeably better than it was in the second half of '12 probably a little bit of a challenge maybe up to the last couple of weeks.
Given equity markets I do think some of this more choppy economic data of late maybe including our own on the margins could be helpful here in getting maybe some things across the finish line.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the top line or the implications for the second half I think EPS implied given your guide is somewhere north of 10% 11%.
And top line given your 1% to 2% in the second quarter and this quarter at 1% implies a very significant acceleration in the second half.
How much are you thinking -- and that's obviously despite deceleration on many many fronts across the portfolio.
How are you thinking about that being as opposed to just comp-based versus meaningful material underlying acceleration all of these major growth investments that you've been making for some time now? Give us maybe some flavor for how you're thinking and talking about it and what's giving you that perspective.
Well I don't think Steve that as we look into the second quarter let alone the second half that we're here pounding the table that things are going to get better in a hurry.
I think what we're trying to do here with the second quarter outlook is give you a sense of our view out the window as to our operating environment and the way that we're going to perform.
If you look at the first quarter clearly we came in in the midpoint of the range on the bottom a little short of the range on the top.
I think that midpoint mindset if you will probably is what's most relevant as you think about the second quarter let alone the full year.
I think to come in at the high end of this range would require the U.S.
to get a little bit better than at least some of the most recent data points would suggest.
And probably the strength in China would have to pick up a bit more so than the encouraging news that we've seen.
And we probably would need to have Europe at least stabilized rather than being down a couple of ticks as it has been of late.
I'm not suggesting that is our scenario.
But as we look forward in this lower-growth environment I think that midpoint mindset is probably what is most useful right now.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And I guess on that I'm just looking for given the many investments that you've been making in the top -- to drive the top line if you -- to what extent externally can you sort of look at the payoff you're getting on those top line investments? And I know it's very hard to separate it from a tough macro.
But what evidence are you seeing? Well I think in terms -- we look at those investments one by one by one right at the operating company level.
So when we see the Dental team in China rapidly accelerating their growth and profitably so it's an easy calculation to see those feet-on-the-street investments.
When you see an uptick in R&amp;D at Videojet and in turn the flood of new products that have come out over the last couple of years and in turn the profitable growth of returns and the market share gains at VJ you know you're getting a return there.
So not that every investment that you make is going to pay off but I think by and large where we are investing we see that return not only in terms of the top line and the intended share gains but frankly also on the gross margins.
We'll take our next question from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just on Life Sciences and in general first just as you think about what next I mean one of the things that strikes me and certainly not being an expert in the area is perhaps the moves of Thermo and others are kind of fortifying kind of a distribution footprint that maybe you can't replicate.
Do you view that as kind of a strategic issue to contend with? And just what is your view on kind of how maybe the channels are evolving? Well Jeff that's probably a longer conversation than we might be do justice to this morning.
But I think in Life Sciences in particular we have a number of distributor partnerships around the world including Thermo.
But that said the vast majority of what we sell in Life Sciences and I'm specifically talking to the research side and the applied side of that portfolio -- that segment not the diagnostics we sell on a direct basis.
I mean these are not gloves and beakers that sell for 2 or 3 digits at a pop.
I mean we're talking about high-end highly engineered customized equipment that researchers scientists spec out and really pushes on with respect to innovation.
So those tend not to be distribution-oriented.
Hence any moves of consolidation you see there I don't think have a direct bearing on our competitiveness going forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
And I was just wondering what you just said to Steve on the outlook was helpful.
But just thinking about the second quarter.
I mean you are basically guiding second quarter flat year-over-year but a little bit better revenue growth in Q2 than Q1 maybe some of this LS&amp;D spending normalizes perhaps some restructuring savings come through.
What is working kind of against maybe those positives that pulled us at a roughly flat EPS result in Q2? Jeff part of it was in the quarter last year.
We reported $0.84 last year but we did call out $0.03 that's kind of one-time item.
In addition we had the Apex earnings.
So absent those one-time items and absent Apex clearly we're probably more like $0.79.
So again not talking a lot of increase but obviously $0.80 $0.85 on a normalized basis is up a little bit versus what we really operationally we had last year.
Our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Larry you mentioned a midpoint mindset I believe.
And I just wanted to clarify is that more a core growth mindset? Or should we apply that to EPS as well? I think with respect to the quarter perhaps the year both.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just taking a step back.
You've given some good color on the trading conditions in 1Q.
But taking a step back to 4Q obviously we have that unusual strength.
And I'm just wondering how much pull-forward do you think there was from 1Q into 4Q.
Yes.
I'm not sure that our view would be materially different today than it was back in the fourth quarter.
Again some of what we saw might have been a push out from the third into the fourth.
So I think what we're trying to do Nigel business-by-business is really take stock of the trends through that if you will at that 3-quarter period.
But undoubtedly we did see some softness in the quarter I think because of at least in Life Sciences and in Dental some of the pull-forward.
Was that 50 basis points? Was it a full point? Frankly we haven't spent a ton of time there let alone trying to figure out how much a day plus the Good Friday spring break dynamics at quarter end cost us in consumables.
It is what it is.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I know it's tough to try and organize [ph].
And then just you had mentioned $8 billion of surplus capital to redeploy.
And if I go over the last 6 years and you're obviously back one which was an unusual size I think you deployed about $9 billion sort of the last 6 years.
And I'm just wondering to deploy that sort of quantity of capital do we need to take a big swing on the acquisition front? I don't think we see that $8 billion opportunity to deploy capital as something that requires the same check to be written.
Again I think as we look at that capacity we really think about that as a backstop for all of these growth platforms that we have.
So we've got 7 or 8 businesses here all with their acquisition maps and funnels and then working that accordingly.
So I think our preference would be if you're looking at $8 billion to divvy up $1 billion to $2 billion across those businesses.
And I think they all have funnels that would represent or present those sorts of opportunities.
Now certainly if something of size came along that made sense for us we would look at it.
But as you well know if you look back over that time period the bigger deals tend to come infrequently.
We'll take our next question from Deane Dray with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Larry on investment you talked about that you've got 4 consecutive quarters at low single-digit growth nice and steady but there's an expectation now that it ramps to mid-single-digits in 2014.
So just talk a bit about what the drivers there.
Is that a new product cycle? Well I think the view all along was that we'd have to pay off some of this inheritance tax.
But by '14 we should be able to move into that mid-single-digit growth range.
I really think it's nothing more than the cumulative effect of both the fixes the quality the service in addition to the implementation of DBS not only to drive cost out but really to lay in the daily management to help drive better execution both in sales and marketing and in new product development.
As we move forward as you see in this quarter with the launch of the DxH 600 the Power Express we're going to get a better lift from those products.
Certainly as we get behind -- we put behind some of the regulatory issues that we've had that's going to be helpful.
So I just think we've got momentum building at Beckman momentum on a global basis and that bodes well for that business.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess it shouldn't be surprising that you called out Arbor because lots of headline news about cyber attacks.
Can you just refresh us how Arbor's go-to-market strategy how much of their product and software is off the shelf how much of it is a customized solution and maybe the mix between government customers versus enterprise? Deane we're well-positioned certainly in cyber security with Arbor much as we are in mobile around the mobile explosion that the carriers are enjoying.
And that's on the Tektronix Communications side.
At Arbor I don't have the exact mix in front of us.
I think we're more weighted toward carriers than we are enterprise.
But the enterprise initiative has been clearly an important part of what we've done here in the last 2 years and that's where we're enjoying some of the outsized growth right now as financial institutions and others wrestle with these DdoS attacks.
That said from a -- in terms of government I just don't have that number offhand.
It's -- I think it's a relatively modest portion of the business but it is represented in the customer set.
Research Division</strong> And would this be a business that would be one of those looking for M&amp;A opportunities? Oh I think all of the businesses out there have their aspirations.
Clearly in security we need to be smart about both the strategic fit of anything that we might do there let alone valuations of course.
We'll take our next question from Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
So Larry first on the Tektronix business instruments sounded like it turned down again to down low double-digits if I heard you right from I think it seemed like maybe it was starting to improve a little bit last quarter.
Can you maybe talk about what happened there and what the outlook is? And also maybe in the context of that business I think that's a pretty high gross margin business.
So kind of how -- what drove the gross margins sequentially given the weakness there? Jon you're right.
We certainly saw continued softness at Tek.
And as I think both Dan and I have alluded to here that was pretty broad-based.
Certainly in the first quarter here I think we saw that particularly here in the U.S.
I think what we saw at TEK was really just a continued push right in our funnels in a whole host of areas.
Certainly a number of the customers that we serve on the development side in the Tek end markets are reworking their capital budgets for this year a little unclear as to how that plays out.
As you know this business tends to track PMI a good bit on a couple of quarter lag basis.
So I think we're optimistic that we get Tek stabilized later this year.
But that said it's going to certainly be a headwind for us all in the first half.
Fortunately we've got some offsets working for us in comms and at Fluke on a segment basis.
And Jon on the margin side the gross margin side across the company as Larry alluded to we've had really good performance.
Given Tek Instruments as you know is a very high gross margin business.
Gross margins were down year-on-year in Test &amp; Measurement because of that.
But in the other 4 segments they were each up 50 to 75 basis points.
Again that's a combination of some of the price/cost dynamics the restructuring bringing out new products.
We were really pleased at Dental; we were up almost 100 basis points year-on-year in terms of gross margin.
And it obviously means good execution on the cost side but as importantly some of these new products coming in at much better gross margins.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Yes very impressive gross margin.
And then if I can just 1 follow-up kind of on the Life Science side.
And some of these smaller businesses I know you mentioned advanced staining was down if I heard you correctly.
Actually Roche had a really tough quarter in advanced staining too.
So can you maybe -- I know there's some reimbursement and other things going on there.
Can you maybe talk about your outlook for that business for the year? And then on some of these legacy Beckman Life Science businesses that actually are more distribution-related to one of the previous questions does it make sense to maybe look to divest some of those businesses I'm curious? Sure.
Let me take those in order.
I think we continue to have a very buoyant outlook for Leica Biosystems.
Unfortunately cancer is an issue around the world and we're hopefully part of the solution there.
You referenced the negative control guidance in the U.S.
We think that probably had a little bit of impact for us in the quarter.
But I think the major issue that we alluded to at Leica Biosystems was really this distribution change.
In parts of Europe we're going from a distribution model to a direct model.
That creates near-term noise.
As you work through that I think it's the right strategic move to make.
It will help us grow faster in Europe long-term.
But clearly we saw revenue and cost issues in the quarter as we work through that.
But that will settle out we'll be in a better place.
With respect to Beckman Coulter Life Sciences portfolio they had a nice quarter.
We have a business there that I think is improving.
I was with them during the quarter.
We installed some new leadership promoted Jennifer Hunnicutt [ph] into the President's role there one of our outstanding general managers.
I think we're optimistic Jon about that portfolio it's clearly if you will the forgotten part of the Beckman Coulter.
There are a number of synergies with the rest of our group.
And while you're right a number of those products go to market to distribution they don't go to market exclusively through distribution.
And I think to the extent that we innovate we build that brand we're going to be able to certainly compete anywhere in the world either on a direct or a distributed basis.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> So Larry back in the third quarter equipment disappointed and consumables hung in.
It was kind of a similar dynamic and it was also I think mainly U.S.-based.
And then that dynamic basically reversed in the fourth quarter so you guys ended up missing it in the third quarter on that and beating it in the fourth on that.
Is there a reason why you don't think we might have a similar just choppiness but shift quarter-to-quarter this time as a reason something keeps you more cautious about 2Q and not expecting that kind of a I guess catch-up that happened 3Q to 4Q? Yes.
I mean if you're reading anything in our language or tone in that regard it may be a function of the March macro data that came out let alone the fact that no fun being short even of a tight 1.5% to [ph] top line range.
I think that said again as we look at the second quarter there'll be some things that certainly help us having the benefit of that extra day if you will being on the other side of the holidays et cetera.
But I think we're going to be as we typically are cautious hopefully smartly so relative to the outlook here.
I think we -- again we look at the quarter acknowledge some of the noise but don't want to point to that.
On a relative basis we think we're doing well.
And that's ultimately what's going to matter.
As we move forward here we continue to do that and make sure that we've got our investment envelope properly tuned to the environment.
Clearly little numbers matter a lot when you're talking about a couple of hundred basis points on the equipment side that can move around as it clearly has here the last couple of quarters.
But that said I think again we're going to move forward here with a strong competitive position thinking that the range that we've offered up this morning again the midpoint perhaps being the most likely scenario for the second quarter and the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I mean it does seem like maybe it's a function of the lower growth environment that your equipment sales are choppier than they used to be I guess right? Well again I think a couple of hundred basis points in growth is really the swing factor here.
And it's been a noisy operating environment as we've dealt with some of these external issues.
But that said the environment is what it is right? So we're going to move forward.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I hear you.
And then just quickly on China I mean so Med Tech remained strong the industrial stuff I guess is mixed instead of all down.
I mean is there anything that's kind of taken a leg down or gotten notably worse in the quarter in China? I don't think so.
We've been wrestling with these issues that Dan alluded to at T&amp;M particularly Tek more so than Fluke and at Motion for some time.
So it's continued to be soft.
But I don't think we would characterize it as legging down in any way.
Our next question comes from Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> So where if anywhere in the business did you see any impact from sort of the sequester? And how do you sort of think about that as it relates to kind of what trend you saw in March versus April? And is there any degree you can give any anecdotal conversations you've had with either customers or peers to sort of understand how that's kind of also as an overlay influencing maybe the CapEx environment? I think certainly part of the softness that we saw in the U.S.
and was probably most pronounced at Leica Micro Ross could be attributed to just some of the noise in and around the sequester.
And again it wasn't as if budgets were being slashed projects canceled and the like.
Things were just getting pushed right because of I think a degree of uncertainty that seemed to play out.
I think we certainly saw at SCIEX some softness in the academic realm as well.
And it's really with those businesses that we probably have most of our sequester exposure in Life Science.
We have pockets here and there of other government exposure which could play out Tek and Motion for example being areas where we have that exposure.
But it would be principally in LS.
And again I think it's a noise factor for us right now as opposed to any part of a clear stepdown as we look out for the rest of the year at least at this point.
Research Division</strong> On the capital deployment front it's been I think I have to check the figures for Q1 but I think it's been a fairly quiet M&amp;A period overall for the market x maybe in my space the deal this week.
But I guess as you're thinking about that environment it seems like from your characterization it's pretty active behind the scenes.
And so I guess as you look at sort of what you've been involved in and what you've looked at that hasn't come to market is it price? Is it timing? Is it uncertainty? And then have you seen the mix of buyers you're competing against change e.g.
is private equity a much bigger component of the process now versus where they were 12 or 24 months ago? And how are you sort of thinking about that as a changing dynamic? I mean clearly given the better leverage markets again what's happened in the last couple of weeks probably dampening that a little bit we're seeing private equity more in different situations.
Where we have a strong point of view about what we can do with the margin which is I said 3 out of 4 times let's say private equity is probably not going to be able to displace someone like ourselves.
In terms of the activity I think the way you'd characterize it and I would think that's something we hear from not only what we're seeing but we hear from kind of bankers is the behind-the-scene discussion levels are definitely up versus where they were 6 months ago and I think that's encouraging.
Now why things don't happen it's all over the place.
It's sometimes price it's sometimes transition issues it's uncertainty.
But normally when we tend to see an increase in the number of discussions we're having about mid to large situations historically that tends to roll out into some acquisitions.
Ross I would just add to Dan's comments that if you think about situations that we've looked at where we've ultimately decided to let things go.
The strategic fit the strategic rationale is really important for us.
It's got to make sense in terms of the broader strategy.
And particularly in this low-rate environment we're still I think primarily focused on those returns on capital as opposed to accretion.
And that really has been I think the frame we've used over time to deploy capital.
Sometimes it's led us to be quite busy and bunched up and other times maybe a little quieter than folks expect.
But with our portfolio taking a long view through the cycle we've tended to I think by and large make good bets that have generated good returns for shareholders.
I think we continue to hold that view as we look forward.
Research Division</strong> Absolutely.
And maybe just one quick last one on that.
I mean to your point on return on capital versus accretion makes total sense.
I mean given your view on the year and stocks off another couple of percent today how are you guys thinking about sort of share repurchases? And I know you bought a bit at the end of last year and then stopped.
And so I'm just trying to get a sense for sort of your sensitivity and feeling on sort of the intrinsic value and your sort of openness if we go through another soft patch to maybe reconsider again sort of reentering the market.
Well I think you characterized it well.
We're always looking at it.
We look at it opportunistically and from what sort of return sort of payback and buying back our own stock.
Again having said that given what we potentially see on the M&amp;A side it's right now in secondary consideration but still something that's part of our accounting.
And that concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Lisa.
Dan and I would be around all day everybody for follow-ups.
Thanks for joining.
And that concludes today's teleconference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call our second quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investor section on our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information Quarterly Earnings and will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investor section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until July 25 2013.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the confirmation code is 5527091.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the supplemental materials and our second quarter Form 10-Q for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
All references in these remarks and accompanying presentation to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's business unless otherwise noted.
I'd also like to note that we'll be making some statements during the call that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
It is possible that actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks.
Good morning everyone.
In the second quarter better-than-anticipated core revenue growth and outstanding execution from our team led to strong earnings margin and cash flow performance.
Core revenue growth of 2.5% was slightly higher than expected led by Hach Gilbarco Beckman Coulter Diagnostics and our Life Sciences platform all of which were up mid-single-digits.
Investments we've made in innovation and go-to-market initiatives in the high-growth markets continue to drive growth and help us capture market share.
The impact of the Danaher Business System and the quality of this growth were evident in the excellent year-over-year margin improvement in the quarter.
Our gross margin improved by $140 million or 100 basis points and our core operating margin expanded 95 basis points.
As we look to the second half we intend to make additional investments aimed at share gains and margin expansion for 2014 and beyond.
So with that as a backdrop let me move to the details of the quarter.
Today we reported second quarter diluted net earnings per share of $0.87 a 3.5% increase compared to our diluted net earnings per share a year ago and representing another record quarter for Danaher.
Excluding a $0.03 gain recognized in the prior year period adjusted net earnings per share increased 7.5% year-over-year.
Revenues increased 4% to $4.7 billion with core revenues up 2.5%.
The impact of acquisitions increased revenues by 2% while the negative impact of currency translation reduced sales by 0.5%.
From a geographic perspective high-growth markets grew high single-digits.
In particular we saw sequential improvements in Brazil and the Middle East as each region was up more than 15% year-on-year.
China saw low double-digit growth in the second quarter led by our Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics and Dental segments which grew in excess of 20%.
In addition our Water Quality platform in China grew at a double-digit rate for the second quarter in a row.
Developed markets were up slightly with the U.S.
and Japan up low single-digits and Western Europe down low single-digits.
Our gross margin increased 100 basis points year-over-year to 52.7% driven by both volume increases and prior year-over-year productivity improvements.
This significant improvement has allowed us to increase our growth investments while still delivering excellent bottom line results.
Our reported operating margin in the second quarter was essentially flat at 17.8% while core operating margin improved 95 basis points.
The Danaher Business System continued to serve us well helping to generate yet another quarter of solid cash flow performance.
Second quarter operating cash flow was $899 million and free cash flow was $763 million.
Our free cash to net income conversion ratio for the second quarter was 124%.
We continue to find attractive bolt-on opportunities and closed over $300 million of acquisitions in the quarter focused in our Environmental and Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics segments.
Given our healthy balance sheet we have more than $8 billion of potential M&amp;A capacity available through 2014 to expand and strengthen our strategic growth platforms.
Turning to our 5 operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement core revenues increased 0.5%.
Core operating margin decreased 30 basis points while our reported operating margin declined 60 basis points to 20.9%.
In our instruments platform core revenues declined low single-digits.
Fluke's core revenues were flat with 10% growth in high-growth markets offset by weak demand in most developed markets.
However we are encouraged by the mid-single-digit growth we saw in North American industrial instruments during the quarter.
At Tektronix core revenues declined low single-digits with growth rates in both developed and high-growth markets improving sequentially from the first quarter.
Core revenues for our Communications platform grew low single-digits led by strength in the high-growth markets specifically the Middle East and Latin America.
Across the platform we've increased our R&amp;D spending by approximately 15% year-to-date focusing our new product development and innovation to address the expanding needs of our wireless and enterprise customers.
At Fluke Networks we unveiled the new product Versiv product family designed for copper and fiber certification during network installation.
The DSX-5000 CableAnalyzer gives field technicians unmatched speed and efficiency in certifying performance in copper cables while the CertiFiber Pro provides the same certification capability for fiber networks.
In Arbor Networks demand for network security solutions remains very strong across all major geographies.
During the quarter we added over 50 new customers in both the enterprise and service provider markets which include significant expansion orders at 2 large global financial institutions.
As a testament to Arbor's innovation and leadership in network security they were recently named the Best Overall Security Company during the Info Products Guide Awards at the RSA Conference.
Turning to our Environmental segment.
Revenues increased 8% in the quarter with core revenues increasing 4%.
The segment core operating margin increased 70 basis points with reported operating margin essentially flat due primarily to the dilutive effect of recent acquisitions.
Our Water Quality platform core revenues increased at a low single-digit rate.
Hach grew mid-single-digits driven by core lab and process instrumentation and mid-teens growth in service.
We believe we are growing faster than the market.
Geographically the U.S.
was up mid-single-digits in the quarter while China grew double-digits driven by solid demand for drinking water projects.
During the quarter we launched several new products including a value line of electrochem products designed to specifically for China.
We also unveiled the 5500sc Silica Analyzer which features predictive diagnostic software allowing customers to avoid unplanned downtime caused by silica buildup on boilers and turbines in power gen stations.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's core revenues grew mid-single-digits led by healthy demand across all major product lines in most major geographies.
Sales in Asia and the Middle East were particularly robust driven by large customer site upgrades for dispensers and payment solutions.
We believe we are gaining share with our point-of-sale and payment products both of which grew at mid-teens rates in the quarter.
GVR recently completed the previously announced acquisition of Automated Fuel Systems Group a leading provider of fuel management solutions to government fleet and mining customers in South Africa.
Moving over to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
Revenues increased 5.5% with core revenues up 5%.
We saw outstanding margin performance with our core operating margin improving 180 basis points and our reported operating margin increasing 130 basis points to 14.4%.
This strong margin performance occurred even with a double-digit increase in R&amp;D expenses at Beckman Coulter Diagnostics where we continue to ramp up our product development efforts.
The diagnostics platform continued their solid performance with mid-single-digit core growth in the quarter.
At Beckman core sales increased at a mid-single-digit rate with growth in all major product categories.
This quarter marks the second anniversary of the Beckman Coulter acquisition and we are exceptionally pleased with the progress that's been made by the team around the world.
We've seen low single-digit core growth or better for the last 5 quarters and the business is becoming more competitive each day.
Over the last 8 quarters we've made significant improvements in our internal capabilities specifically addressing on-time delivery service and product quality through improved design to ensure that we're serving our customers well.
We've also made tremendous progress to enhance efficiency with second quarter operating margin expanding 150 basis points year-over-year.
We've also made considerable progress on the regulatory front.
For example we recently received FDA 510(k) clearance for the troponin assay for use on our Access 2 system.
This approval allows Beckman to offer troponin to new customers in the U.S.
for the first time since 2010 and marks an important milestone for our customers as well as the Beckman Coulter team.
As Beckman enters its third year with Danaher we are actively increasing growth investments in business particularly in R&amp;D to boost new products vitality and ultimately drive higher organic growth rates.
At Radiometer core sales were up at a high single-digit rate with growth in all major product lines.
High-growth markets were up more than 20% in the quarter led by China which grew about 45%.
Instrument placements were particularly strong in the quarter with blood gas up 25% and AQT up over 50%.
As previously announced Radiometer closed the acquisition of HemoCue a leader in hemoglobin and glucose point-of-care testing.
At Leica Biosystems sales increased at a mid-single-digit rate led advanced staining which is up low-teens in the quarter.
Most major geographies saw growth with particular strength in China which grew at a high-teens rate.
Further our core histology business grew low single-digits year-over-year.
And we are pleased to report that Leica Biosystems can be found in 100% of the top 50 cancer centers in America as recently ranked by U.S.
News &amp; World Report.
Subsequent to quarter end Leica Biosystems acquired Amsterdam-based Kreatech Diagnostics.
Along with Leica's advanced staining instruments Kreatech's probes and reagents enable customers to detect genetic aberrations that may lead to cancer and other diseases.
Our Life Sciences platform core revenues increased at a mid-single-digit rate in the quarter.
AB SCIEX core revenues were up mid-single-digits led by robust growth in pharma and the applied markets particularly food and environmental.
The 6500 our high-end Triple Quad platform continues to be very well received by customers globally in all major market segments and is expected to generate more than $100 million in revenue on an annualized basis.
AB SCIEX recently launched its 3200MD CE-IVD series of mass spectrometers for clinical diagnostic use in Europe.
This is an exciting achievement for AB SCIEX as the 3200MD expands their addressable market to include clinical care customers.
And we look forward to leveraging channel synergies with our diagnostics platform to help drive growth of this largely previously focused product category from the research realm.
Leica Microsystems core revenues were up mid-single-digits led by double-digit growth in China the Middle East and Japan.
We continue to see solid demand for our confocal microscopy systems which grew over 10% in the quarter.
Demand for our SP8 modular confocal laser scanning microscope remains robust growing at a mid -- growing at a high-teens rate.
To expand our go-to market efforts in Latin America we acquired Aotec Leica's distribution partner for microscopy and histopathology solutions based in São Paulo Brazil.
Turning to Dental.
Segment revenues grew 3% in the second quarter with core revenues up 2.5%.
Core operating margin increased 90 basis points while reported operating margin expanded 90 basis points to 15.3%.
Dental consumables core revenues grew mid-single-digits led by sales of professional dental consumables across most major geographies.
In addition our implant business grew at a high-teens rate as they continue to take market share.
Kerr recently launched the Demi Ultra curing light system the industry's first Ultracapacitor-powered light curing system which provides dentists with more efficient curing and eliminates the need for battery power.
Ormco's Insignia Advanced Smile Design received the 2013 American Technology Award in Health &amp; Medical Technologies from the TechAmerica Foundation.
This award is presented annually to the product that most improves the delivery of health services.
KaVo's core revenues were up low single-digits driven by demand in China and other high-growth markets.
Last quarter we highlighted the new i-CAT Flex which achieves a full 3D scan at lower radiation doses than traditional 2D Panoramic X-ray imagers.
Reception in the market has been outstanding with the Flex receiving a best new product award at the Henry Schein National Sales Meeting and the 2013 Pride Institute award for best-in-class technology.
In Industrial Technologies total revenues increased 2% while core revenues declined 2.5% for the quarter.
Both our reported and core operating margin increased 110 basis points with our reported operating margin at 23.5%.
Our Motion businesses core revenues declined at a mid-teens rate with weakness in most major verticals.
We've begun seeing signs of stabilization in North American distribution which grew modestly both year-over-year and sequentially.
As evidenced by strong profit performance Motion continues to transition out of some of their lower-margin business.
This transition will continue to impact core revenues which are expected to remain negative in the second half of this year.
Core revenues were up -- in Product Identification platform were up mid-single-digits with solid demand from our in-line variable printing technologies as well as our packaging and color management solutions.
Sales increased across most major geographies.
Those of you who joined us last week in Chicago at our Investor Day saw firsthand the evolution of our Product ID platform from our core marking and coding businesses into a leading provider of integrated packaging solutions spanning the entire consumer packaging value chain.
I thought our team did a great job illustrating how we use strategy and DBS to establish and then build and grow a strategic platform.
For those of you that weren't able to participate I strongly encourage you to watch the replay available on our website.
At Videojet new product introductions have been an important driver of our share gains.
In the quarter we introduced the 1620 and 1650 lines of ultra high-speed printers capable of speeds 40% faster than the previous industry benchmark with minimal planned downtime.
Also in the quarter Procter &amp; Gamble announced their adoption of Pantone's new cloud-based color management solution PantoneLIVE which improves operational efficiency throughout the packaging supply chain.
This is the second major consumer packaged goods company to adopt PantoneLIVE building on early momentum in the market.
So to wrap up we were very pleased with our second quarter results better-than-anticipated core revenue growth and outstanding execution led to solid operational performance.
We are initiating third quarter diluted net earnings per share guidance of $0.78 to $0.83 which assumes 2% to 3% core revenue growth.
We are narrowing our full year 2013 adjusted diluted net earnings per share guidance to $3.37 to $3.42 from a previous range of $3.32 to $3.47.
As we move into the second half of the year we're maintaining a conservative macro outlook while staying confident in our ability to deliver solid operating margin expansion.
We expect investments in innovation and the high-growth markets to continue to drive growth and share gains.
Our earnings outperformance in the second quarter allows us to make additional high-impact growth investments and to fund productivity and efficiency initiatives that we believe will position us well for the balance of this year and beyond.
Thanks Larry.
Jennifer that concludes the formal comments.
We are now ready for some questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Scott Davis with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Let's talk a little bit about the investments you're making in the -- I mean Larry can you help us understand what -- how much of this is driving growth versus restructuring and cutting costs? And I guess the question the obvious question here is that are you investing more money just because you're seeing or thinking there's going to be a reacceleration of growth? Or is it more focused on getting costs out ahead of continued weak -- relatively weak macro environment? Scott I would say that operationally this is really more of the same consistent with the path we've been on in this slower-growth macro environment that we're operating in today.
And frankly I think we see ourselves working through going forward.
So there's no macro call here to suggest we see an inflection point relative to things getting materially better.
And hence we want to be ready for that.
I think that as we've seen through the first half of this year we've been well served having in the past positioned ourselves not only with the step-up in R&amp;D to drive new product launches but also our step-up particularly in the high-growth markets to go grab market share where we can.
And in turn to make sure we're being smart about our cost structure we can make those investments and drive the margin expansion and the earnings growth that you've seen.
So what we're really talking about here in terms of taking the beat and putting it back into the business if you will in the second half is really a combination of stepping up those growth investments both in R&amp;D and sales and marketing as well as in those productivity efforts that you've typically seen us put through in the second half.
And we flagged last year on that point or the end of last year that we probably had dialed in about $70 million this year in the back half to do that.
We're going to step that up here certainly as we look to the second half.
But again it's really a balanced approach to make sure we're making the investments for share gains and margin expansion as we work our way through the second half of this year.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up to that Larry when you think about the step-up you've had in R&amp;D I mean you're already fairly -- you've always been a fairly large investor in R&amp;D so it's not as if you've underinvested in the past.
But the step-up in 2013 versus '12 do you anticipate this being an ongoing trend and then you have another step-up in '14? Or is this reset the bar and you're kind of holding in this level versus sales longer-term? And I have just a quick follow-up to that just in -- conceptually every company we cover is raising R&amp;D as a percent of sales and I think even in the medical world that's happening.
Has this become a little bit of a tax if you will that it just costs more to drive incremental growth and you don't really get that much net benefit because everybody's investing more? It's a bit of an arms race.
Or is it really some differentiation that you think can occur with that added investment? Scott it's Dan.
As we look back at Q2 we really saw the benefit across a number of the businesses in the step-up in R&amp;D.
So we talked about Hach Gilbarco PID all businesses where we think we took share in the quarter.
Their new product revenues improved sequentially 50% Q1 to Q2.
And we think that was a big driver of the share gains.
So I think we are seeing -- we're not seeing it everywhere but some of this targeted step-up we've made in R&amp;D we are seeing the payback for that.
And I think as long as we continue to see that and we're taking share our bias would be to spend more.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
I mean that's [ph] the crux of my question right.
I mean if you can gain share it's definitely worth it.
If it's just grow in line with the market but you have to spend more then it starts to -- industry structure starts come into the question I guess.
And Scott to the structural question I would just add I think Dan's spot-on there that if you were in the sessions with us as we talked to the businesses the tone is really fundamentally an offensive one.
We see opportunities to do things no one else does.
We see opportunities to help a customer in a way that maybe we uniquely can.
And that really drives the agenda the budget in any step-up that you see.
There's really not a lot of examples where we're sitting there saying "Gosh there's catch-up to be made a tax as you say to be paid." So I think that qualitatively combined with the quantitative market share impact that we're seeing suggests these are good investments for us.
But we'll continue to be prudent to make sure we're getting those returns as we put this additional money in.
We'll go next to Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just on the second quarter I understand that it's kind of a similar revenue seasonality if I'm kind of doing the math correct on the core as last year.
Is that right first of all? Just a sequential decline? Yes.
So we were down -- I mean last year we were down about $140 million Q2 to Q3.
We probably have become a little bit more seasonal a little weaker in Q3 given some of the acquisitions we've done over the last couple of years.
I don't think we'll be down $140 million sequentially but maybe we're down call it $100 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean when I look at like Beckman for example I think it was pretty -- if you go back historically with their business it was kind of flat to up seasonally.
And then last year I think I thought you had kind of the initial dropoff in some of the more cyclical businesses as well as that Life Sciences call it I don't know an air pocket or whatever you want to call it on the product side.
So I guess that's the difference between the $100 million and $140 million is -- I'm just struggling to -- this is probably last year was probably your biggest sequential decline and I'm just kind of struggling to figure out what's changed here relative to I don't know 10 years of history.
Well I think part of the history is a number of years where we've done Q2 acquisitions.
So the organic decline we've had historically over the last 5 years Q2 to Q3 is larger than our printed numbers as an acquisition element.
So the seasonality was more severe last year but not -- less out of line than the numbers would suggest because of M&amp;A.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any change in the level of restructuring this year as well? Like I think you talked about a couple of pennies of investment in the third quarter but I guess just the fourth quarter.
Yes.
That's what I was trying to suggest in response to Scott's question Steve.
So we're stepping up both the growth investments and the productivity moves.
We'll go next to Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Larry interested on the somewhat better North American industrial.
I mean you talked about the distribution piece.
Anymore color on that? I mean was it a restock or pickup in end demand or anything you could make out of it? I mean I think we flagged that both at Fluke and in Motion.
I'm not sure we're ready to extrapolate too much from that at least at this point.
I think we were encouraged to see Fluke improve sequentially in that regard.
But I think we need to see this play out for another quarter or so to think we've got legs there.
There was some inventory movement at Motion which is part of what we saw there.
But again I think it's early signs but we'll see how the third quarter plays out.
Research Division</strong> And how about on the tax side of things I mean any movement in either direction in terms of customers' sort of attitudes around equipment spending on that side? No.
I think clearly sequentially things improved but we are still negative from a core perspective.
I think we've got the potential to be positive in the second half in large part because of the comps.
But as you know I mean one geography in particular that we're watching closely particularly in T&amp;M on the instrument side is China.
China has been a real struggle particularly as the export base has struggled there.
The comps help us probably more than necessarily the underlying demand does.
But I think that combination should help us get positive there in the second half but not wildly or overly so.
Research Division</strong> So you haven't seen any sort of significant change in behavior yet? Not yet.
We're looking.
Believe me we're looking.
We'll go next to Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick follow-on to some previous questions.
So Dan I think you've referred to the step-up in R&amp;D.
Obviously it makes sense if you're getting the payback.
But the 40 bps in the quarter is that indicative of the kind of step-up you expect in the back half of the year? In that range Nigel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Larry the restructuring expense you mentioned a couple of cents in 2Q -- in 3Q.
But the 4Q I mean so how do we think about that? Do you have a number in mind? Or is that number fungible depending on how the back half plays out? Nigel I think we're still a little fluid in that regard.
As Larry highlighted we talked about $70 million in our plan in the second half.
That will be more fourth quarter than the third quarter that's pretty typical.
But we're going to spend more than that $70 million here.
And we're still sort of figuring that out.
We're trying to embed that in our guidance.
Research Division</strong> But more than $30 million in the fourth quarter rather than the second half? Yes.
Well it tends to be more Q4-focused yes.
There'll be some in Q3 but it will be more biased to Q4.
Research Division</strong> And then switching to the performance at Beckman.
Obviously very encouraging to see mid-single-digit growth so early.
Can you maybe just give us a little bit more color in terms of what's driving that? Is it pull-up [ph] in attrition? Are we seeing more gross adds? Any help there would be interesting.
Nigel it's really not any one thing.
But I think the program that we've been working to improve our retention and win rates in North America I think our step-up in terms of the investments in the high-growth markets which really have been driving most of the growth at Beckman.
And certainly as we fix the quality issues witness troponin and others but also bring on some additional new products every little bit helps right? So to see a mid-single-digit quarter here isn't necessarily in any way a declaration of victory.
But having been out there here in the last couple of weeks I just think we've got a lot of progress and momentum building in the commercial execution and new product development which bodes well for the business.
But again as you've heard me say there's still a lot of work to do but we're highly confident we're going to continue to improve Beckman and make that as good as any Danaher business that we have.
Research Division</strong> And how do you see [ph] the upside of Beckman for the second half of the year? Have you assumed that great quarter but let's not assume it continues? Or have you rolled forward some of that upside in the second half of the year? Nigel I think we're still working with a low single-digit focus in the second half here but clearly a little bit more encouraged given what we've seen not only the numbers we printed but just the general tone of the business.
We'll go next to Steve Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just first question.
The T&amp;M core margin decline of 30 basis points was all of that due to operating leverage? Or what other -- any other dynamics in that? Steve it's really a combination of 2 things.
One as we noted instruments is down instruments is the higher-margin piece of that segment so that hurts.
And communications is an area where we are stepping up our growth investments.
Clearly not the best growth quarter they've ever registered.
But as you know probably one of our best growth businesses here in the last couple of years with a tremendous amount of runway given their focus in mobility their opportunities in security and certainly building up more of a position with the enterprise customer base.
So it's really the instruments volume and the R&amp;D step-up really the OpEx step-up and comms which create that pinch.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then talked about Beckman a bunch.
But if you step back now 2 years later how are the financials compared to your original expectations both for ROIC and accretion at this point now? Steve we're right on track probably the revenue is a little better.
Margins are ahead of where we thought they would be.
We thought we'd have $250 million of costs by the end of this year.
We're north of $300 million.
So a little ahead of the margins and a little bit ahead on the revenue line as well.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just a little bit of overarching commentary on any changes in the M&amp;A environment is always helpful on these calls.
Yes.
I don't think we've really seen a change Steve in the last 90 days.
I think we're encouraged and fundamentally optimistic about our ability to deploy the capacity that we have the $8 billion or so that you heard us talk about in terms of the next couple of years.
And clearly valuations are up.
That means we can't buy every company we might want to buy but that's never our MO right? We're looking for great fits where we can add value where we can generate a return for our shareholders.
And the silver lining in an environment like this particularly for a strategic well-capitalized buyer like ourselves is you can have high-quality conversations with high-quality companies.
We're doing just that.
So we continue to I think have that level of optimism of confidence that we will smartly deploy that capital to help build out the businesses as we move forward here.
But again not a dramatic sea change 90 days on.
We'll go next to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Partners.
LLC</strong> I'm wondering if we could just try to put a little finer point on some of this incremental spending.
Dan I guess you made it pretty clear the $70 million is in flux you don't know where it goes.
But I guess first point would we be talking about it if it's only $5 million or $10 million? No we would not be.
So if it was $10 million $15 million more we wouldn't be talking about it.
So maybe it's in that $90 million $100 million range.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just trying to get a head around the incremental R&amp;D and SG&amp;A growth spending you gave the basis points in R&amp;D to Nigel.
But relative to what you were thinking how much is that changing? We heard the story of 170 new marketing people just at Videojet alone last week.
It seems like there is a lot going on.
But was that all kind of baked in the plan? Or is there a real increase there too? In terms of what we're talking about for the second half there are real increases both in R&amp;D and some on the sales and marketing side.
We've mentioned the high-growth markets.
You flagged some of the marketing initiatives there as well Jeff fortunately saw in Wood Dale.
It's really a step-up.
Because as we go through the year we obviously are reading and reacting.
We're learning we're developing skills.
And we don't want to be too static in those growth investments.
So we really -- when you hear us talk about dynamic resource allocation we're really trying in real time to fund the opportunities as quickly as we can as opposed to being slaved to an annual budget.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So even there we're not talking about single-digit millions then we're probably talking about 5s and 10s sort of thing? That's probably correct.
That's fair.
LLC</strong> Yes.
And then just back to kind of Q3 I guess the whole sequential discussion.
But on a year-over-year basis the comp is really easy against obviously what was a pretty disappointing Q3 last year.
Why wouldn't you accelerate a little bit against that just a 0.8% organic last year? Right.
Well there's no question Jeff there's an easier comp in the third.
I think what we're trying to share with you today is in essence what we're seeing customers and markets saying and doing today right? So as we work through what's happening at point of sales we talk to our distribution partners.
As we go through our sales pipelines with our direct business as we take a pulse of both the headwinds and the tailwinds out there externally I think we come up with a top line figure that suggests that on a core basis we're likely to be in that 2% to 3% range here in the third quarter.
It's really as simple and as straightforward as that.
LLC</strong> Great.
And then just finally can you size in basis points or dollars whatever is easier just how significant the Motion headwind is just from kind of unwinding the lower-margin project -- products? There's probably call it 400 or 500 basis points of core revenue headwind within Motion as a result of that I think appropriate and smart transitioning out of some of that lower-margin business.
So we take the core revenue hit but you clearly see the resilience of those Motion revenues as the positive offset a trade we'll take any day.
The Motion margin.
Yes excuse me.
We'll go next to Jon Groberg with Macquarie Capital.
So you've talked a bunch about Beckman Larry.
On Leica I just remembered last quarter in Leica Bio you had the control issue Europe distribution change worried of potentially new competitor coming to market.
Can you just give a little bit of an update on each of those issues and kind of where you stand on Leica Bio in the quarter and for the rest of the year? Sure.
I think in terms of the control issue for the broader audience we have seen in the U.S.
some policy guidance changes which has negatively impacted some of our underlying volume in the business.
I think that is modest and kind of working its way through the business.
Our European distribution change there continues.
But I think we certainly had a better quarter in that regard than we did in the first and continue to believe strategically that we're heading in the right direction and financially we should see less headwind as a result.
And you mentioned competition.
I have no idea who you're thinking of there Jon but we haven't really seen any material competitive pressure change here of late and continue to believe that particularly in advanced staining we saw very strong underlying growth vis-à-vis the market.
So would you expect kind of what you saw in the second quarter here to continue in the second half for Leica Bio? We would -- we certainly have that expectation with LBS as we drive into the second half.
Okay.
And then just one more.
I did the math on the core diagnostics of Beckman.
It looks like you said in your Q I think you said North America and Europe were actually down low single.
So it's looking like high growth and probably China is still kind of plus 20%.
Anything at all you're seeing there given what's going on in China that makes you concerned that that could slow some? Just maybe an update geographically on that business.
Yes Jon.
I think it's hard not to be a little bit cautious on that front just the number of quarters we put back-to-back-to-back was 20%.
And China is not [ph] part of the high-growth market.
So we think they'll continue to be very good.
Could there be some tempering? I think that's a possibility.
And while Europe and the U.S.
were down they were down less than they were the last couple of quarters.
So hopefully we can get a little bit of improvement in the developed markets because I think there's some likelihood we'll have very good growth in the high-growth markets.
But it's going to be probably hard to sustain at these levels.
So do you think North America and Europe could be getting to a point where they actually turn positive in the next few quarters here given some of the successes that you've talked about at Beckman? We are not yet prepared to forecast but we like the trend line.
We'll go next to Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on the operating cash flow it was down 2% in Q1 it was down 14% in Q2.
And you talked in the Q about the timing of customer deposits in T&amp;M and so on in the network comm side.
Can you maybe talk a little bit about how quickly you expect the operating cash flow to normalize? And what's driven that customer deposits issue? Sure.
Julian there are probably 3 factors driving the first half cash flow being down slightly year-on-year.
I'll come back to the customer deposits in the third point.
One of which is just the timing of tax payments.
We've had relatively higher tax payments here in the first half.
That will normalize through the year.
The second element is we have slightly higher inventory levels.
Part of that is related to a number of new product launches.
We talked about some of the benefits we're seeing at Hach Gilbarco Product ID.
Again we expect the inventory levels to normalize through the year.
And then finally customer deposits.
Last year on some large projects we were able to get some upfront payments.
That will probably not normalize through the year so that will be a slight headwind but these others 2 factors will help.
And you should see an acceleration back to more normalized level of cash flow through the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then within Environmental you talked a bit about municipal spending being down.
Not a surprise but I guess any sense on the pace of the declines or how that's -- how you think that will trend as we go through the year? Well it was a little bit bifurcated.
So the lower-ticket municipal spending actually got sequentially better Q1 to Q2.
We're probably a little cautious of that because the governments have year ends of June 30.
So we may have seen a little bit of benefit.
But it's okay.
It's not great but again probably a little better than what we saw in Q1 continue to see the high ticket stuff to be challenging.
And I don't think we're calling for a turn in that part of the business.
And that comp is really focused I think in the U.S.
and to a degree in Europe.
We're pleased with the China growth that we saw for now 2 quarters here coming in no small part from the muni side which had been a bit more sluggish for us over the last couple of years.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly on Europe there has been some hope around slightly higher PMIs and so on.
It doesn't sound like you have seen anything at all around any kind of inflection point in any end market in Europe.
Is that fair or...
Julian we were down a point or 2 in Europe which has been comparable to maybe slightly better than what we've been seeing.
We've seen a few of our businesses -- PID had a better quarter in Europe.
But I'd say generally speaking we're not seeing much of any turn here.
We'll go next to Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Larry Dan could you give us a view around the book-to-bill in T&amp;M in the quarter? And how would you expect that business to trend in the second half particularly for Tek instruments? And to what degree are you beginning to see any change in demand trends out of China? Yes.
I mean T&amp;M book-to-bill was flat.
I think as we look at Tek for the second half and really instruments more broadly I think we have the opportunity to grow call it low singles if all goes well.
China is really important.
China is important both at Tek and at Fluke.
And as I mentioned earlier we've seen softness prolonged softness both with the export base which we largely serve at Tek and frankly in a host of other verticals that deal with domestic infrastructure principally at Fluke.
But as we have gone through those reviews recently with the teams again in part due to the comps in part because some of our own execution opportunities we think we can go positive here in the second half and we're going to be working hard to do that.
But China will be an important swing factor for that instruments platform no doubt.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then Dan in terms of the overall core revenue growth experienced in the quarter can you give us a breakdown between equipment and consumables? Sure.
The consumables stayed right in that -- consumables and aftermarkets stayed right in that 3% to 4% range all up.
And equipment and instruments were a little better than Q1 so we were essentially flat in Q1 and we were up 1% to 2%.
Again we talked about some of that Gilbarco some of the Life Sciences businesses benefiting to that number.
We'll go next to Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just on Industrial Tech wanted to put your comments on Motion in context to that core growth target 0% to 3% you put out last December.
You guys trended a little bit lower than that in the first half.
So I just want to make sure I understand what's embedded in your assumptions for the back half of the year.
In the back half we're looking at Industrial Tech to be flat to slightly down in the third quarter.
The biggest driver of that would be Motion which we expect to be down high single-digits.
Most of that [indiscernible] getting out of some of this very low-margin business.
And then the fourth quarter we'd expect a sequential improvement from that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that makes sense.
And then just in China maybe qualitatively we touched on that issue a couple of different ways here.
But I do want to spend a minute with regards to the nature of your customers in China specifically with regards to capacity utilization.
I mean I think we all know a lot of the growth in China has been driven by success in investment.
And I think one thing that's harder for us to read is sort of what your customers' capacity utilization looks like on your products over there just qualitatively.
Can you maybe comment on that and just how think about what your customers' underlying demand looks like just given the current environment there? Isaac I admittedly can't give you a figure as to our diagnostics customers our Chinese diagnostics customers' utilization of our installed base over there.
But I would say as you might anticipate it's higher closer to the coast.
Those new installs that have gone in are ramping.
But there's probably very few places outside of the major coastal cities where our installed base is anywhere close to capacity.
So we're proud to be part of this health care initiative in China.
And certainly as that installed base is utilized more actively in the delivery of enhanced care that will be good for those patients and it will be good business for us.
We'll go next to John Inch with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Troponin is that going to be significant to growth in the segment? Or is it -- like when does that kick in do you guys think? Well I -- those are 2 different questions John.
I think it's kicking in now that we have that 510(k) approval.
And frankly it's kicking in not only in terms of the resumption of being able to sell that product but it's another box that's checked in terms of the commitments we made to not only our regulators but our customers which helps the overall business.
I think we've tried to downplay the specific quantitative financial impact John of getting those assays back on the market just because largely I think that was overdone.
I think this was more a reputational issue.
And as we've gone through this hoop and others I think people understand that we're getting Beckman back in the shape that it once was in and will be again.
And that helps us with retention that helps us with new customer wins not only here in the U.S.
where this issue was most acute but more broadly as well.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No Larry I'm just wondering is there a sort of a short-term pop-up if you will that maybe is significant to Beckman's results that you could see sort of near-term associated with troponin? I would say if there's any near-term pop it would be muted and immaterial.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that makes sense.
Can I ask you about just maybe Dan is where these pricing trends perhaps juxtaposed with some declining raws how are you guys sort of seeing that across your portfolio or say across significant differences in geographies if anything is noteworthy? John I just probably have a top level point of view.
Our prices remained about 70 basis points the last 2 3 quarters.
Again getting it on the consumables and the aftermarket relatively flat on the equipment on the instruments.
So part of that 100 basis points of margin improvement is the cost actions we took last year.
But clearly we're seeing some price-cost benefit right now.
Not getting a lot of price getting a little bit of price and seeing some benefit on the cost side.
Research Division</strong> Are there any discernible differences Dan in terms of pricing trend sequentially that would be...
No.
I mean we did say this started a couple of quarters ago that it got tougher to get price on equipment and instruments.
And we went from maybe slightly positive to kind of flattish slightly negative price but probably overall flattish instruments and equipments.
And that has stayed relatively steady here at least through the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay that's helpful.
And just lastly Larry as you think about emerging markets and you guys obviously are doing extremely well in China part of the playbook I think had been to sort of broaden that success into the Indias and Latin Americas of the world.
But clearly the world looks perhaps different today as it did even a year ago in terms of the run rate for those markets.
How are you Danaher strategically thinking about that? And why not maybe go for even more penetration in China if some of these markets around the world maybe with the exception of the Middle East look like they could be significantly more challenged in the coming few years in terms of realizing growth rates? Well I think strategically John as you rightly point out and you know this as well as anyone what we try to do is build on our China-first strategy the last couple of years and taking the successes we've had and learnings we've taken to all the other high-growth regions of the world.
I think the evidence that we're having good traction in that regard for all the examples peppered through our prepared remarks in terms of the successes we're having in the Middle East what we're seeing in Brazil Eastern Europe right on down the line.
India has been a little softer for us this year to be sure.
Latin America in part because of a couple of tough comps was tough in the second quarter.
But that basket which is no longer a China-only basket was up what high singles here.
I think we're mindful of the headlines relative to that basket as we think about the second half.
I think that's part of our conservative posture on the macro.
But strategically you hit the point.
These markets may slow in their overall growth but they're still going to be the best game in town and the penetration levels of most of our products in these parts of the world are still pretty modest.
So you pick your market take 200 take 500 basis points of growth off the top yes that will define how much investment monies we have to put into play.
But that underlying growth our penetration opportunities to grow in excess of those market rates still makes those spaces those places incredibly important targets for us.
And that's the way we're operating.
And we'll take our final question from Deane Dray with Citi.
Research Division</strong> We covered a lot of ground here already and maybe just some closing comments regarding guidance.
And Larry last quarter you had some specific commentary about having more of a midpoint bias to earnings guidance.
Now you put up a solid second quarter.
You're playing a little bit more offense and making some growth investments.
So how would you characterize that bias today? And then same question for core revenue growth for the second half.
Yes.
I think that what we've done here Deane with the update on guidance is really stay true to that midpoint mindset that you heard me express back on the first quarter call.
So being at the halfway point here have a little bit more clarity as to the puts and takes it doesn't really change our outlook materially in that regard and we thought we can tighten up the guidance accordingly.
I really think it's that simple.
In terms of the core outlook I think we're looking at a low single-digit environment here in the second half.
We've quantified that as 2% to 3% as best we can figure here for the third quarter.
But in essence I think what we saw in the second quarter is on balance likely what we're dealing with here in the second half.
We wish it were otherwise but it is what it is and we're going to outperform accordingly.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Matt McGrew for any additional or closing remarks.
Well thanks for joining us everybody.
We'll be around all day for follow-ups.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning.
My name is Debbie and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call our third quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investors section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information Quarterly Earnings and will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investors section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until October 24 2013.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally.
Confirmation code is 1705356.
During the presentation we'll describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the supplemental materials and our third quarter Form 10-Q for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Unless otherwise noted all references in these remarks and accompanying presentation of earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate to the third quarter of 2013 and relate only to the continuing operations of Danaher's business.
And all references to period-to-period increases or decreases in financial metrics are year-over-year.
I'd also like to note that we may make some statements during the call that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
It is possible that actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I'll turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Another very good quarter for Danaher.
Our team continues to execute well taking advantage of the strength of our portfolio and the Danaher Business System to deliver solid core growth margin and cash flow performance.
Revenues grew 5.5% to $4.7 billion with core revenues up 3%.
Acquisitions increased revenues by 3% while currency translation decreased revenues by 0.5 point.
The investments we've been making in new product development and sales and marketing initiatives particularly the rapidly expanding digital world are driving growth and share gains across many of our businesses.
Radiometer Leica Biosystems ChemTreat Gilbarco Leica Microsystems and Videojet are among the businesses that we believe increased their relative market share this quarter.
From a geographic perspective high-growth markets grew mid-single-digits.
China delivered low single-digit growth led by our Dental Water Quality and Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics platforms.
Most of our industrial businesses continue to see sales declines in China.
Developed markets improved sequentially from the first half of the year while year-over-year Japan grew mid-single-digits the U.S.
was up low single-digits and Western Europe was slightly positive.
Our gross margin was 51.9% and gross profit improved $145 million.
This increase along with our holding G&amp;A essentially flat allowed us to grow our combined R&amp;D and sales and marketing investments faster than our sales growth rate.
We delivered outstanding margin expansion this quarter with our core operating margin increasing 110 basis points and reported operating margin improving 30 basis points to 17.4%.
Our free cash flow to net income conversion was 139% in the quarter and we're still driving towards $3 billion of free cash flow for the full year.
We remain active and optimistic on the M&amp;A front.
During the first 9 months of the year we closed more than $850 million of acquisitions primarily in our Environmental Industrial Technologies and Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics segments.
We've had a number of constructive conversations with companies across all of our growth platforms and remain confident in our ability to deploy the $8 billion of potential M&amp;A capacity available through 2014 in a strategic yet disciplined way.
Turning to our 5 operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement core revenues were flat as growth in our mobile tool distribution business was offset by modest declines in both our instruments and communications platforms.
Both core growth -- both core and reported operating margin decreased 90 basis points primarily due to the impact of targeted growth spending including the expansion of our network monitoring systems for next-generation LTE networks and our DdoS security offerings for our enterprise and service provider customers.
Instruments core revenues declined slightly.
At Fluke core revenues were flat as increased demand for our industrial products in the U.S.
and Western Europe was offset by pockets of weakness in certain high-growth markets.
Fluke has generated more than $100 million of revenue from new products introduced since the beginning of last year including additions to our power quality thermography and calibration lines.
These new products along with productivity and cost-reduction initiatives helped drive more than 100 basis points of gross margin expansion in the quarter.
At Tektronix core sales declined slightly as low single-digit growth in developed markets was more than offset by weakness in our China export business where we primarily serve the technology sector.
Communications core revenues declined at a low single-digit rate as strong demand for security applications in North America and Western Europe was more than offset by a decline at our network management solutions business in the same regions.
Encouragingly though bookings were up double-digit in the quarter and we expect core growth rates to accelerate in the fourth quarter.
New products introduced within the last 18 months including Arbor's Pravail enterprise security software and Fluke Networks' TruView network performance monitoring solution accounted for more than 25% of the total third quarter platform revenue and are steadily building momentum.
During the quarter Arbor closed the acquisition of Packetloop a developer of big data security and forensic analytics used to provide enterprises with enhanced advanced threat detection during cyber attacks.
Packetloop's capabilities complement Arbor's Pravail and Peakflow products further extending our DdoS-centric solutions toward a broader suite of advanced threat analytics.
Turning to our Environmental segment.
Revenues increased 10% with core revenues up 4.5%.
The segment core operating margin improved 60 basis points with reported operating margin down 80 basis points due to the dilutive effect of recent acquisitions.
Our Water Quality platform's core revenues increased at a mid-single-digit rate in part due to an improvement in North American municipal project activity at both Hach and Trojan.
Hach has now seen 3 sequential quarters of U.S.
municipal spending increases.
Sales in China continued to grow at a double-digit rate.
Trojan's orders were up high single-digits due to several large wastewater project wins including the city of Chicago one of several large U.S.
cities now deploying UV technology in their treatment facilities.
At ChemTreat we continue to grow faster than the market and achieved another milestone as quarterly revenue surpassed $100 million for the first time.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate led by demand for our payment solutions which grew more than 25% in the quarter due to significant customer wins in Asia and Australia.
During the quarter we expanded our highly popular Encore product line with a new compressed natural gas dispenser which allows us to help retailers capitalize on the growing trend toward alternative fuels while also delivering superior safety features and seamless monitoring.
In the quarter we acquired Teletrac further building out our smart transport business.
Teletrac complements the previous acquisition of Navman Wireless by providing increased access to the U.S.
market and key verticals including long-haul trucking.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
Revenues increased 10.5% with core revenues up 6%.
Core operating margin was up 285 basis points while our reported operating margin decreased 200 -- while our reported operating margin increased 250 basis points to 14.7%.
Core revenues in Diagnostics grew mid-single-digits.
At Beckman Coulter Diagnostics core revenues were up low single-digits with growth in all major product lines particularly clinical automation and immunoassay.
We've seen low single-digit core growth or better for the last 6 quarters and the business is becoming more competitive each day.
As many of you know during the quarter we received FDA 510(k) clearance for the Access troponin assay for use on the DxI series of immunoassay systems.
This clearance marks an important milestone for our customers and the Beckman Coulter team.
For the first time since 2010 Beckman can offer the troponin assay to existing and new customers in the U.S.
for use on all of our immunoassay and integrated chemistry and immunoassay systems.
With both troponin approvals received and many other regulatory and quality improvements made we're better positioned to focus on retaining existing and winning new customers and to more effectively and actively increase growth investments in the business.
We've launched several significant new products in the last year including the AU 5800 and the DxH 600 and are investing in new product development and menu expansion to boost product vitality and ultimately drive higher organic growth rates.
Radiometer's core sales increased at a low single -- at a low double-digit rate.
Sales in high-growth markets were up more than 20% led by China which grew in excess of 35%.
AQT our cardiac care breakthrough also had another terrific quarter growing more than 30%.
At Leica Biosystems core sales increased approximately 10% as advanced staining and core histology sales both grew low double-digits.
Increasingly we are finding opportunities to provide differentiated solutions to our customers.
In this quarter we had several meaningful wins as a result of the integration of our core histology capabilities with our advanced staining solutions to simplify overall pathology laboratory workflows.
Core revenues in our Life Sciences platform grew high single-digits with solid sales in most geographies particularly Japan China and Western Europe.
AB SCIEX core revenues grew high single-digits led by particular strength in pharma and in applied markets.
The 6500 Triple Quad continues to build momentum and has generated more than $100 million in revenue since its launch last year.
AB SCIEX continues to expand its digital capabilities with multiple new and enhanced launches this year including its new MasterView Software which allows the mass spectrometer to be used for routine analysis in food safety environmental and forensic toxicology laboratories with minimal training needed for lab personnel.
This is just one of the many new applications introduced this year that simplify workflows and enable greater efficiency and cost savings for our customers.
Of note today approximately half of AB SCIEX R&amp;D associates are dedicated to software development with nearly 1/3 of the total R&amp;D spend focused on these digital efforts.
Leica Microsystems core sales increased mid-teens with sales of our confocal microscopes up more than 30%.
Our SP8 modular confocal laser scanning microscope has generated over $150 million of revenue since its launch last year and continues to be very well-received.
We're very proud of the fact that all 3 winners of the 2013 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine cited Leica microscopes in their publications during the period in which they carried out the work that contributed to their awards.
This is the third year in a row that Leica microscopes have been cited in Nobel Prize-winning work in the field of physiology or medicine.
We're pleased to support such important and pioneering work.
Turning to Dental.
Segment revenues increased 4.5% while core revenues were up 3.5%.
Core operating margin increased 70 basis points and reported operating margin increased 60 basis points to 16.1%.
This marks the first quarter Dental segment margins have exceeded 16% evidence of our team's ability to drive and sustain improvements.
Dental consumables core revenues grew mid-single-digits with solid demand in most geographies and product lines.
In particular we saw outstanding traction in our implant business growing over 20%.
Revenues from products introduced during the last 18 months have doubled since the first quarter as adoption ramps for our new products including the Lythos Digital Orthodontic Impression System and our TF Adaptive endodontic file.
KaVo core revenues increased low single-digits as double-digit growth in the U.S.
was partially offset by weakness in project business in Western Europe.
During the quarter KaVo launched the DIAGNOcam a handheld X-ray-free digital imaging system that uses light technology instead of radiation to provide doctors with unsurpassed imaging quality.
In Industrial Technologies total revenues increased 1% while core revenues decreased 1%.
Due to a weak top line core operating -- or despite a weak top line core operating margin expanded 100 basis points and reported operating margin increased 80 basis points to 22.6%.
Motion core revenues declined at a high single-digit rate.
However we have seen improvements in the North American industrial automation and distribution markets.
We've also had commercial success with several new design wins including a contract from a major material handling company for critical motion control capability worth over $15 million annually at full volume production.
The team's execution on the margin front has been excellent as operating margin increased more than 100 basis points from the first 9 months of the year.
Motion continues to transition out of some of their lower-margin business negatively impacting sales performance in the short term but positioning us for better and more profitable growth longer term.
Core revenues in our Product Identification platform were flat as mid-single-digit growth at Videojet and X-Rite was largely offset by a significant nonrepeating consumer electronics laser order last year which created a difficult prior year comparison.
We believe the investments we've made in digital marketing lead generation and in innovation at Videojet combined with our expanding commercial DBS capabilities continue to drive relative outperformance.
We're now deploying the same lead gen growth tools to many of our other businesses.
During the quarter Esko announced their first acquisition as part of Danaher acquiring CAPE Systems a software developer that specializes in packaging design pallet optimization and truck and container loading solutions.
This acquisition expands Esko's capabilities to provide an end-to-end offering to its packaging customers from packaging design all the way through to point of sale.
So to wrap up our team continues to execute well with the Danaher Business System delivering solid core growth operating margin expansion and cash flow performance.
We believe our new product and go-to-market investments our continued focus on productivity and efficiency initiatives and our optimism on the acquisition front position us well for the balance of 2013 and beyond.
We are initiating fourth quarter diluted net EPS guidance of $0.91 to $0.96 and confirming our full year adjusted diluted net EPS guidance of $3.37 to $3.42.
We are assuming fourth quarter 2013 core revenue growth to be in the range of 2% to 3%.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal comments.
Debbie we're ready to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first today to Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the acquisition pipeline.
Obviously a big topic of debate in the last couple of months there's been a lot of noise around you guys perhaps switching up your capital allocation philosophy given the lack of deals that's coming.
And maybe you could talk about the discussions with the board around a potential for a buyback.
If no deals get done what's kind of the tipping point for that? And then also just kind of the standard discussion around what the pipeline looks like.
And it has been a little bit of a long period of time since you guys did a big deal.
So I mean it is a fair question I guess so if you could just comment on that.
Steve all your questions are fair but we're very pleased with the health care performance.
You're exactly right.
To see Life Sciences up mid-single certainty on the Dental consumables as well the Diagnostic businesses to boot very pleased with that.
But remember we had water up mid-single-digits.
GVR was in that zone as well and Videojet particularly.
So we had a number of businesses in mid-single-digits or better in the quarter.
So a lot of folks contributed.
But to your question capital allocation is something that the Danaher board takes quite seriously as you imagine.
I think they understand that that's a critical responsibility they have relative to the company.
And clearly we had a bias a distinct bias over time toward M&amp;A.
What we've been able to do organically has thrown up a lot of cash.
And what we've done is redeploy that back in a way that has complemented what we're doing organically inorganically to build what we think is a unique and outstanding portfolio.
I think that bias Steve is very much intact today simply because while we have tremendous capacity we talked about $8 billion over the next couple of years potentially we see a wealth of opportunity.
And again the quality and the quantity of the conversations that we're having with potential partners with potential sellers is something that we find encouraging.
There's no question that given where public equity valuations are in many spaces M&amp;A is more challenging at this point in time.
But those valuations again can be a catalyst a trigger if you will for the types of conversations that we're having.
I think that when we meet again in December as we did when we met in December the board will talk through all of the options that we have to build value including buybacks including the dividend.
But that said I think the bias that we have is one we have a tremendous amount of conviction in despite the fact as you say that while we've deployed $850 million this year we haven't had a big big deal since Beckman.
Research Division</strong> Is this a dynamic around people's EBITDA expectations? Or is it more about what you talked about with the valuations? I mean what's the sticking point here? Because it seems like you guys have been pretty optimistic on the pipeline several times in the last several quarters it just seems like there's -- for whatever reason stuff is just not getting to the finish line.
Is that a fair characterization? Or is this just kind of normal course of business? Steve I think it's more normal course.
Clearly for a host of macro reasons valuations in a number of places are probably a bit ahead of the fundamentals right? And we're going to be more rooted on the fundamentals and we're clearly in a slow-growth global scene with despite last night's news or this morning's news a great deal of uncertainty out there.
So that doesn't make it easy necessarily.
But again it's hard for me to characterize or generalize the 1 reason or the 2 reasons that some of the things that we have been working on haven't come to a head yet.
But again I think that each situation is unique.
We don't need to have a broad array of sellers out there.
We simply need to have a handful of folks that we'd love to have part of Danaher get to a point where we can both be happy around the terms of the transaction.
We'll take our next question from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> When you look at Test &amp; Measurement it's the one area that has remained pretty sluggish all year and shorter-cycle businesses that clearly are showing that global economies aren't improving at all.
I mean what are your guys telling you from the different geographies particularly when you think about China still negative on relatively easy comps? I mean is there any hope that we see a pickup towards the end of the year? Or is this the new reality I guess in global? I think if I can take the last part of your question elevate it up and out of T&amp;M and just look at the world more broadly we clearly have seen a bit of the edge come off the high-growth markets.
That said they're still leading the way for us as you know.
I think we were pleased to see the U.S.
be -- well U.S.
and Western Europe to be better incrementally.
But for the high-growth market basket to be up say mid-single-digits plus as opposed to low double-digits is something that we wish were otherwise.
But the macro is what it is.
Scott specifically at T&amp;M I think what we saw in the quarter is important to understand if you look business-by-business.
The comms business had a really good quarter from an orders perspective.
They were up double-digit.
But as you know in that space deliveries can be a bit lumpy.
And I think that's really where we were a little soft vis-à-vis our expectations.
But the order strength that they had sets us up well going into the fourth quarter.
And we think the comms business is probably going to be up somewhere in the high single-digit range in the fourth quarter.
So I'm not really worried about that.
On the instrument side I think we were actually pretty encouraged by what we saw.
I mean Tek was down slightly as was Fluke.
But for Tek to be down slightly that frankly is the best quarter we've seen since the fourth quarter of 2011 and very much in line with where we thought they would be as they work through some of the macro issues that you're alluding to.
Fluke was in a similar position and really because outside of China we saw the high-growth markets tail a little bit.
India Turkey Russia were softer than we had anticipated.
China fortunately was positive at a low single-digit rate unfortunately but still an acceleration slight acceleration from where we were in the second quarter.
So all in all I think we were pleased with the way the quarter played out because as you know instruments has really been where we've been challenged.
And it was really that comms dynamic that was a little softer than expectation.
But again it sets us up well for the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
So when you think about 4Q guidance 2% to 3% kind of sequentially flat against a slightly easier comp I mean is there an impact in there? You didn't mention government shutdown in any of your comments.
I've got to imagine there's some NIH or CDC impact for the first couple of weeks of October.
Is that in your guidance? Well it's a little hard to pin down.
We didn't use the backup script we had if things didn't happen as everyone hoped they would last night here in Washington.
But we've seen a little bit of sequestration impact in certain pockets a little bit in LS&amp;D a little bit in T&amp;M.
And I think we've dialed that in.
But to the extent that there's any residue from the circus over the last couple of weeks we know what we know today right? And I don't think it gets materially worse given they found a way to a deal last night.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I'm not sure you answered the question.
Was there any real -- you couldn't measure any impact in NIH or CDC shutdown? Or is it....
Scott I would say generally we did see some pockets of weakness in government in the third quarter probably saw a little bit more in the industrial businesses.
Even though it's not a big piece of Fluke and T&amp;M we definitely saw the impact.
We are expecting a more difficult fourth quarter in Life Sciences compared to the third quarter.
I think that's the combination of a couple of things.
One was we had a terrific quarter Q4.
We had a very tough comp here in Life Science.
And I think there's a little concern about the residue of what's happened here the last couple of weeks.
So part of the reflection we did overall as a company have a better core growth last year in Q4 than we did Q3.
And that was probably most notable in Life Science and we'll feel some of that headwinds here in Life Science in the fourth quarter.
We'll take our next question from Steve Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe first a cash flow question.
Free cash flow net income was a very strong 139% but still down from last year.
And I guess some of that was trade working capital headwind by my numbers something like $40 million to $50 million.
But maybe just talk to any dynamics there we should be aware of.
Steve there are a couple of factors driving the cash flow being a little bit behind last year.
One is the timing of tax payments.
We've had higher year-to-date tax payments than a year ago.
That should flip a little bit here in the fourth quarter.
But as you point out there's also some working capital dynamics.
Last year in our comms business we had some sizable upfront payments on some projects.
Not surprisingly those are harder to get these days.
It's a little bit of a one-off there in terms of deferred revenue.
And then on the inventory side we have had a -- I would talk to this a sizable increase in kind of new products this year.
That has impacted our inventory levels which are a little bit higher than they were at this time last year.
We expect some of that to correct here in the fourth quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then I noticed also the debt paydown you've got -- I think it was down by about $650 million.
Was that -- just any part of that a function of your discussion about capital deployment and sort of optimism but just not there right now? Or how should we think about that? I wouldn't read anything into it.
We had a Eurobond come due in the third quarter and we had cash on hand and we redeemed it at that point.
And obviously the capital market is still wide open here so not concerned that if we were to run down some larger deals we'd have any issues with financing.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally the M&amp;A that you talked about I guess it was $869 million year-to-date for $294 million of revenues and a little more in this past quarter from a price so kind of running 3x revenue for the year and I guess 4x for this last quarter.
Just thinking about these are small deals lot of strategic deals.
But that normal kind of pricing run rate on historical last 12 months' revenue -- or sorry last year's revenue is not normally what we should be thinking about or expecting right? Yes.
I mean I wouldn't read much in from the bolt-ons in terms of what they would mean for larger situations.
Some of these are very profitable niche add-ons or businesses that we expect to be very profitable companies becoming product lines within the operating structure.
We'll go next to Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So can you just maybe talk about -- elaborate a bit on the trading environment? Some of your peers have talked about a September slowdown.
Did you see that? And then secondly on emerging markets we've seen some of the consumer staple companies caution on EM.
And you've seen the slowdown but still at decent growth levels.
But is there anything happening in emerging markets that maybe causes some concern down the road? Well I think the way September played out Nigel was more or less as we had anticipated frankly.
I think as we went through the summer we knew we'd have a lot riding on September.
Certainly pleased to see Europe go positive again albeit ever so slightly.
I think in terms of the high-growth markets we saw China up again low single-digits in the quarter but we saw a little bit less froth in other high-growth markets but still positive right? So if you look overall I would've thought that given some of the macro issues that we might have seen a little bit of greater spottiness in Brazil and India.
They're both up 15% for us despite the ForEx issues there.
And Russia was up mid-singles for us.
So I think we're probably more incrementally cautious about how much growth we will get from the high-growth markets but continue to believe that they'll lead the way here going into the fourth quarter and as we gear up for 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then switching to troponin obviously great news that you finally got approval on the high-speed machine.
But can you maybe just talk about what benefit you expect to accrue from having that assay on the high-speed machine and maybe back away from that and talk about what negative impact you saw from the absence of that assay for the last 3 years? Sure.
Well I think in terms of the impact clearly that was a test that had a run rate in the $40 million to $50 million range at peak before we acquired the company and before they got into the issues from a regulatory perspective.
I think what it really means for us going forward commercially is that we can go back and sell that assay on any machine to any customer.
And that's going to help us not only claw back what we can in terms of that lost revenue but going forward when existing customer contracts are up for renewal there's no troponin issue to work through that's solved.
And when we're competing for new business as well Nigel that is not something that will be held against us.
I think just as importantly from a product development perspective the organization understandably spent considerable time and talent let alone dollars in paying off that inheritance tax if you will.
We get to pivot now with that behind us putting those people and that money on more traditional growth investments particularly in terms of menu expansion and complementary software and service capability.
So it's a big deal for us commercially.
It's probably even a bigger deal long term from an innovation perspective.
And finally as you can appreciate having that successfully concluded is a tremendous morale booster for the team.
Research Division</strong> No question about that.
That's great color.
And just one final question.
Larry you mentioned in the past the midpoint mentality.
And I guess the question is is there a bias towards any good news in 4Q being used for top-up restructuring? Is there a bias towards restructuring in 4Q? Well what we're going to do with the efficiency and productivity efforts in the fourth quarter is we will spend I think at this point close to $100 million in the quarter and would expect that that gives us a nice payback going into '14 probably in the $70 million to $80 million range.
So we're going to top that up a little bit and probably use a little bit of the beat here to do that in part because we can and in part frankly because we should given the uncertainties that still lurk out there.
So I think it's a good setup for us going into the fourth quarter and getting ready for next year.
We'll go next to Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just putting a finer point on restructuring first did any restructuring happen in Q3? Or is the $100 million plan all about Q4? Jeff the lion's share of it will occur in Q4.
There were some early spending in Q3 but it was a modest amount.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just wondering on back to instruments and Test &amp; Measurement Larry other than kind of lapping what should be some easy comps after kind of 18 rough months or so do you actually see some clear business drivers to kind of drive some acceleration into next year whether it's new product or customer or front log or any other thing that feels tangible to get some visibility on the outlook? Yes.
Well I think the visibility really comes from the sales funnels right? And those sales funnels and the issues and the opportunities we have I think are our best window there Jeff.
But I think if you look at the trend lines in terms of retention rates for existing customers win rates for new customers let alone that you have a punch list of some of the things that we needed to work through be they regulatory approvals that we just talked through product enhancements and the like improvements in delivery and service I think we just again are a more competitive company every day.
And that coupled with the lessons we glean from our higher-growth Diagnostics businesses Radiometer and Leica Biosystems give us the confidence that we'll continue to see the sequential improvement in the underlying core growth at Beckman with the lineup we've got.
Obviously there's some longer-term growth drivers that kick in in time like our molecular diagnostics effort.
But that's really not something that we're going to talk a lot about today.
But we've got a long-term plan here that I think gives us again the confidence that Beckman is going to be a good grower for us.
LLC</strong> Right.
And can you elaborate a little bit more on the trends in U.S.
muni? And it sounds like Hach is gaining some share.
Is that how you'd handicap it? Or is the market actually gaining some momentum? Obviously you've got some episodic projects that's going on that's helped.
Yes.
I think that we have seen a welcome stabilization and dare I'd say a modest improvement in the muni scene.
And we see it both at Hach Lange and at Trojan.
Is Hach taking a little bit of share? We think so.
But as you know Jeff it's such a fragmented market.
It's hard to pin down inside a 90-day period.
But we clearly have the winning franchise in a number of product categories that are important not only on the lab bench but in the plant at Hach.
We'll go next to Jon Groberg with Macquarie.
Larry I was just sitting here looking at the overall business and looking at 2012.
You grew about 2% core 2013 about 2% core if you take your 2% to 3% in the fourth quarter.
And I'm just -- from your perspective where you sit what are the key issues you see for Danaher moving into 2014? It looks like consensus expects revenues to bounce back to call it 5% mid-single-digit growth.
I'm just kind of curious what you see as the key issues for Danaher moving into next year? Well clearly I think the macro context is important Jon not only for Danaher but for all of us right? But we can't control that.
So we've just concluded our strategic plan reviews which is really the front end for us to our budget cycle that we will begin here in a couple of weeks.
And I think what we try to do is really make sure that with all of our businesses in the context of their respective markets that we're very clear as to what winning looks like in '14.
It's going to be a share gain play in a lot of places.
We need to make sure we are grabbing as much high-growth market opportunity as we can come even if those markets are a little less robust.
We want to make sure we're continuing to drive everything we can from a digital perspective from the way we generate leads and sell to some of the new product and business model changes that are likely to occur and all the while I think make sure that we're staying focused on the qualities of the delivery the cost side of the business that has always been a DBS hallmark.
So we take none of that for granted.
That's our game plan really across the portfolio going into '14.
And '14 will be what it is in terms of the context.
We need to control our destiny as best we can.
Sure.
And to your point I mean if you look across all your markets clearly the markets themselves are just slower.
But assuming a similar macro as we've had I mean let's just say that's what happens this year and next year are those initiatives enough you think to drive you to mid-single? Or if we were in the same kind of macro would you expect a similar kind of environment as the last couple of years? I think when we get to the other side of our budget cycle and we get to New York in mid-December we'll detail out all of the assumptions for next year.
Okay.
And then if I could just follow-up then on the Test &amp; Measurement side of things it looks like at least for this year kind of every quarter sequentially margins are down a little bit.
Were there any -- is that just a volume issue? Are there any plans specific to that business unit to restructure? I'm just curious kind of how you're seeing -- what your take on the margins are.
Yes.
Jon I think from a margin perspective 2 key points.
One it is our highest gross margin business.
So when a little bit of revenue goes missing in T&amp;M we feel it.
I'd say the other as we alluded to in our prepared remarks we're continuing to invest in innovation particularly on the comms side as we look at some of the LTE opportunities as well as the expansion of the Arbor business beyond their DdoS core.
We can't let the near-term dynamics get in the way of making sure we continue to invest in what has been this quarter notwithstanding really one of our best growth contributors in the last couple of years and a business that we think will be similarly positioned going forward.
We'll go next to Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Larry so this sort of encouragement you talked about a little bit in Tek instruments can you give a little more color on your thoughts there? I mean is this just finally the mass of the comps? Or are you actually seeing better spending out there? I don't want to pound the table too much Shannon.
Again we were down albeit slightly.
But the comps helped a little bit.
But you'd have thought that that would have been the case 5 quarters into the slowdown right? And again we haven't been in this zone since the fourth quarter of 2011.
China continues to be challenging.
And I say China I think it's really more the tech sectors that we serve with the export base there in China as opposed to China more broadly.
But we saw I thought nice improvement in the U.S.
good improvement in Western Europe and some of the other high-growth markets were contributing.
But just given the vertical mix when Tek is going through what it is going through the Tek end markets it is challenging for Tek in the short term.
But I think all-in we were encouraged with the print and hope to build on that as we move forward here in the next couple of quarters.
I don't think the context for them gets any easier so we're going to have to work hard to get north of line and put a positive print on Tek.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just you also talked about some of these better trends you're seeing on the Motion side but it's being I guess more than offset by your transition out of the low-margin business.
I mean x this transition would that business actually be growing right now? And when do you see that kind of working its way through in terms of this bleed-off of other stuff? Shannon instead of being down high single-digits I think we would've been down just a little bit.
We've had 3 quarters in a row where our book-to-bill has increased and we were north of 1 in the third quarter.
Again we've got 2 more quarters of this -- of the noise getting out of this low-margin business.
But I think the underlying trends are favorable right now.
Research Division</strong> And what are you hearing in terms of sort of what's driving that better trend? Well I think frankly the stability in the U.S.
and in Western Europe has helped us a good bit there.
I think we're executing better.
We've reset the mix a bit across the group away from some of these more volatile end markets.
That's been a multiyear effort.
Some of the exits that Dan alluded to are around discrete customer situations.
So I think there's a little bit of market help there Shannon.
But I think that the great work that team has done on margins that has been evident in virtually every print here in the last 8 or 9 quarters is also showing up in the quality of their revenue set.
And that in turn is why we're getting a better top line once you kind of filter away the one-offs out of the group.
A little bit more health care a little less semi helps a lot in this environment.
We'll go next to Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A question on Product ID within industrial tech.
That piece I think it had sort of decent growth organically for about 3 years.
It's gone flat in Q3 and the main reason seems to be consumer electronics.
Could you talk about maybe what you've seen by region in the consumer electronics piece there and if you think that Product ID should return to growth in Q4 or that's more something that happens next year? Yes.
No I think at PID the issue in the quarter Julian is really the comp.
We had a very large global consumer electronics opportunity a year ago.
It was primarily a laser marking application.
It was great to get.
It's a little hard to offset in the quarter a year later.
And I'd say that coupled with the drupa show a year ago really set Esko up for a very strong back half as the orders taken at drupa were shipped in the back half of the year.
If you look at the core marking and coding business at Videojet again we were up mid-single-digits there.
I think that business continues to perform very well clearly the market leader.
And the newest acquisition X-Rite was up mid-single-digits as well.
So they're continuing to I think get their arms around the opportunity they have with DBS.
So I realize the headline print isn't stellar but it's frankly what we had anticipated happening and really have no concerns here around the core growth engines in PID as we move forward.
And Julian we'll have a little bit of that laser overhang in Q4 and not near as pronounced as Q3 and we expect a better print here in Q4.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the cost base you showed kind of very good operational leverage around R&amp;D and SG&amp;A in Q3.
I mean are the trends on the selling and R&amp;D costs are those more -- is Q3 more kind of representative of where you should be going forward relative to the performance in the first half when maybe the cost growth seemed to be a lot bigger? Julian we -- R&amp;D and sales and marketing continue to grow faster than organic revenue but not -- it was not the same -- as you point out not the same differentials we saw in the first half.
As long as we're expanding gross margins doing what we did on the G&amp;A side which was keeping it flat year-on-year we're comfortable with that makeup because we think that's helping us drive some of this relative outperformance in some of our businesses.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just lastly you touched on this early but sort of net income is up about $250 million year-to-date free cash flow is down about $200 million.
Was your point that in Q4 that gap is pretty much wiped out because of the tax and the comms issue? Or is it maybe something that spills into next year? Well part of the year-to-date income increases are onetime or so.
The overall point is accurate but it's not that significant.
And we expect better free cash flow here than we had a year ago in Q4 because of the dynamics I covered.
We'll go next to Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Larry on the Dental side of the business just curious if you could speak to how Dental consumables have fared kind of over the past 6 weeks or so given what's been happening in D.C.
And then on the margin front there could you speak to how much more runway you feel like is left on the profitability front in the Dental business? Yes.
I think in terms of what we've seen on consumables in the U.S.
as you well know Brandon it varies a little bit category-by-category.
But we've been pretty pleased with the resiliency of what we have seen.
Now what matters most obviously is POS in a number of the categories.
And we don't really have up-to-the-minute visibility in that regard given we go to market through distribution.
But where we have that line of sight it hasn't been I think as troublesome as the headlines out of Washington might suggest.
In terms of the margin expansion with the business again as we said pretty darn proud of the progress the team has made on the margin front.
We love the 16.1% print here.
I think Dental can be a 20% platform or segment for us really no reason for that not to be the case.
We have work to do to expand the gross margins there.
And that's work we're after not only in terms of existing cost but frankly new product design.
And I think over time there's leverage to be had out of the OpEx base.
So I don't think in any way should you take this third quarter number as a high-water mark.
It's a sign of progress but there's more to come.
Research Division</strong> And then back on T&amp;M could you just give us the overall book-to-bill for the segment? And then particularly would be interested in how Tek instrument orders performed in the period.
Brandon for the instrument side our book-to-bill remained about 1.0.
So orders were basically in line with -- shipments were down ever so slightly.
I think orders were about flat but not a big change.
As Larry alluded to orders were very good at comms and we were well north of 1 for comms.
We'll go next to Deane Dray with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Just some cleanup questions here.
And for Dan maybe if he can comment on the price/cost dynamic in the quarter and what you're looking for in the fourth quarter.
I mean we continue to see good progress on the gross margin side.
That's obviously a function of what we did last year in Q4 the benefit of some of these new products coming in at higher gross margin.
Price still pretty steady.
We're getting the same price on the consumable side.
Equipment remains challenging.
It's definitely worse than it was say 2 years ago but it's been pretty consistent with what we're seeing.
On the input side we've done a good job on -- we've done a very good job on the procurement side this year.
And you see that in what has been a low-growth environment our gross margin up 60 basis points.
And we've had as good a year as any on doing a better job on sourcing and procurement.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And we touched on this earlier in the call regarding plans for additional restructuring in the fourth quarter.
Could you quantify any additional discretionary spending beyond restructuring? We touched on some incremental sales R&amp;D maybe some other growth investments.
Is there anything embedded in 4Q guidance in that area? Well as I mentioned to Julian we continue to spend faster on those growth levers in our overall top line against driving margin expansion because of the gross margin and the G&amp;A.
And that continues to be our plan in the near term and won't get any more specific than that.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And then just last question for me the news on the Chicago win for Trojan.
I saw the announcement last week by the city of New York that they have completed the Trojan UV installation that's the largest in the world.
Is the Chicago win is this an inflection point you've been waiting for for drinking water disinfection on UV? And are there other cities that we're looking at Chicago and New York to lead the way? Deane it's a timely question not only because we finished up in New York and Marv was down for the grand opening so to speak.
But with the Chicago win we really get on the treatment side a top 10 U.S.
city deploying UV for the first time.
So the application is a little bit different than New York.
I think a lot of eyes are on Chicago.
So we're keen to go from order to shipment and installation and get that gear installed.
And I do think that will help us drive greater print penetration at the higher-volume sites or localities going forward.
So it's a big order which is great.
But again strategically as you point out probably more important to us going forward.
Ladies and gentlemen we'll take our final question today from Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk a little big picture on Diagnostics.
It's been an interesting sort of market dynamic.
We've seen varied prints from some of your competitors and it feels like your business is really sort of hitting an inflection point.
So I'm just curious from like a market perspective there's a lot of pushes and pulls.
Reimbursement is tougher utilization is still a bit weak but we're seeing platform consolidation the emerging markets are good.
You guys have had some good R&amp;D success.
I'm curious as you sort of put it together how the business is doing versus the market in terms of where it is on the plan versus what your expects were when you originally bought Beckman and how you kind of expect the R&amp;D to kind of further accelerate.
Do you feel like that business really is kind of now getting to where you want it to be? Is it doing better? I'm just trying to get a big-picture sense with all the pushes and pulls how you feel like you're doing versus the market and where the big deltas are from an inflection perspective as we kind of go forward.
Sure.
Ross I think overall we're very pleased with the Diagnostics platform not only because of where we are with Beckman but the real performance driver as you know for us the last several years have been Radiometer and Leica Biosystems.
Radiometer has just done a phenomenal job globally in critical care both on the core blood gases and now in cardiac care.
And that franchise is just a wonderful business.
Leica Biosystems similarly we positioned in a bit of a niche in the path lab has only plugged into the highest product growth category advanced staining but has done that in a differentiated way given we really can go end-to-end in that workflow from our core histo products all the way to advanced staining and now increasingly with Aperio into some of the informatic applications.
I think at Beckman in terms of the top line and our competitiveness we are where we hoped to be in the second half of 2013.
We thought this would be a low single-digit growth year as we paid off some of that inheritance tax not only from a regulatory view but frankly a lot of the internal issues that we needed to work through quality service and the like.
But we really like where Beckman is today.
And I think as we move forward we're going to play a lot more offense commercially.
We're going to be better-positioned from an innovation and R&amp;D perspective both with the instruments as well as the menu.
And that may not ever put Beckman in short of a big impact from the molecular effort into the Radiometer Leica high single-digit low double-digit growth range but Beckman can be a very solid mid-single-digit plus grower for us over time and certainly has still runway in front of us from a margin expansion view.
Research Division</strong> I guess just on that last point it feels like again like to your point you're really sort of going on offense now which is obviously encouraging.
The natural next progression for the business over time R&amp;D-wise I mean there's still plenty of menu left within your own world but it's sort of that push into molecular which I know they had been working on and you've put money towards.
I mean I think in general that organic strategy has made sense.
How do you feel about sort of transforming Beckman over time into kind of a broader player in Dx and using some of your existing assets around you to kind of round out the business as you sort of see where some of the valuations have gone in that space? Obviously externally it gets a little bit more challenging.
But how do you feel like that sort of playbook looks today versus maybe what you had thought 6 or 12 months ago? Well I think we have been focused frankly Ross first and foremost on making sure that Beckman itself is strong.
But as we made the progress that I alluded to earlier we have been doing more with Radiometer with Leica Biosystems to collaborate and do some things that we might not be able to do independently.
Valuations run in cycles right? And there'll be times when there are attractive opportunities for us to add to Beckman and to the Dx platform and we'll take advantage of those.
And as you saw with the IRIS investment where we extended Beckman into urinalysis we're at the point where we think the business is strong enough and capable to think about those sorts of investments in addition to what we're doing organically.
So I think it's full speed ahead at Beckman.
That concludes our question-and-answer session.
Mr.
McGrew I'll turn it back to you for closing remarks.
Thanks Debbie.
We're around here today for follow-up calls.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good morning.
My name is Marquita and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Matt Gugino [ph] our Director of Investor Relations.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call and the SEC Regulation G information relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call which we refer to as the supplemental materials are all available in the Investors section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information and will remain available following the call.
As our year-end Form 10-K has not yet been filed we have included as part of the earnings release fourth quarter and full year income statements year-end balance sheet and full year cash flow statement and data reflecting our business segments.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investors section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until Tuesday February 4.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the access code is 5113533.
During the presentation we'll describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the supplemental materials and our annual report on Form 10-K when it is filed for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Unless otherwise noted all references in these remarks and supplemental materials to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate to the fourth quarter of 2013 and relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's business and all references to period-to-period increases or decreases in financial metrics are year-over-year.
Also like to note that we'll be making some statements during the call that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
It's possible that actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks.
Good morning everyone.
2013 was a good year for Danaher.
For the full year revenue increased 4.5% to $19.1 billion with core revenues up 2.5%.
Using the Danaher Business System or DBS our team delivered solid core revenue growth operating margin expansion and excellent cash flow performance for the year.
In addition our new product development and go-to-market investments drove relative outperformance in many of our businesses.
In 2013 we believe we increased our market share positions at Hach ChemTreat Gilbarco AB SCIEX Leica Biosystems Kerr Implant Direct and Videojet.
Our focus and commitment to long-term growth investments position us well for 2014 and beyond.
Turning to the fourth quarter.
Revenue increased 3.5% organically.
All segments grew at or above expectations led by our Communications Water Quality Diagnostics Dental Technologies and Product ID businesses each delivering mid-single-digit core growth or better.
From a geographic perspective high-growth markets improved notably from the third quarter and grew at a high-single-digit rate.
In China sales increased high-single digits with continued strength in Dental Water Quality Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
High-growth markets now represent more than 25% or approximately $5 billion of our annual revenue up from $2.7 billion just 3 years ago.
In the developed markets the U.S.
grew low-single digits and western Europe was slightly positive for the second quarter in a row.
In 2013 we generated $3 billion of free cash flow and our free-cash-flow-to-net-income ratio was 113%.
This represents the 22nd consecutive year in which we delivered free cash flow in excess of net income.
We also strengthened our businesses through acquisitions and deployed approximately $1 billion on 14 strategic bolt-ons in 2013 despite the tougher M&amp;A landscape.
Given the breadth and depth of our strategic platforms we remain confident in our ability to deploy our $8 billion of available M&amp;A capacity in a strategic yet disciplined way.
We continue to deliver solid margin performance even while funding long-term growth investments.
Our gross margin was 51.5% and almost 52% excluding productivity and efficiency initiatives in the quarter.
For the full year our gross margin was 52.1% and our operating margin was 17.1%.
In the fourth quarter our core operating margin increased 100 basis points while our reported operating margin declined 40 basis points to 16.9% in part due to the impairment of certain intangible assets in our communications platform.
Absent this charge our reported operating margin would have been 17.5%.
We reported fourth quarter adjusted diluted net EPS of $0.96 inclusive of approximately $100 million of productivity and efficiency investments which we believe will provide about $75 million of savings in 2014.
For the full year adjusted diluted net EPS was $3.42.
Turning to our 5 operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement revenues increased 4% with core revenues up 4.5%.
For the full year revenues increased 1% while core revenues grew 1.5%.
Core operating margin expanded 150 basis points while reported operating margin decreased 210 basis points to 16.6% due primarily to the previously mentioned impairment charge.
Core revenue in Instruments increased slightly.
Fluke core revenues grew at a low-single-digit rate an improvement from the first 3 quarters of the year with demand strongest in the high-growth markets.
Of note Latin America grew in excess of 25% due in part to our increased commercial investments there.
Also contributing to the step-up in growth was the successful launch of our Ti400 thermal imager a wireless high-performance infrared camera with laser autofocus capability that enables service engineers to quickly detect temperature measurements up to 1 200 degrees Celsius and communicate results back to their laptops or smartphones for further analysis.
Products introduced in the last 2 years are helping increase vitality at Fluke and accounted for nearly 1/4 of Fluke's fourth quarter revenues.
At Tektronix core revenues declined slightly as strength in Western Europe was offset by weakness in U.S.
government and computer verticals.
In December Electronic Products magazine named our PA4000 Power Analyzer its 2013 Product of the Year.
The PA4000 is the only T&amp;M instrument so recognized and is an advanced power-testing tool that helps electrical engineers perform critical current measurements with precision and accuracy.
Core revenues in our Communications platform increased low-double digits with broad-based growth across most of our product categories.
Sales of Tektronix Communications network management solutions increased more than 20% driven by demand for mobile service providers in the U.S.
Asia and Latin America.
Arbor Networks ended the year with record bookings driven by its Pravail enterprise security solutions and the recent launch of Arbor Cloud an integrated on-premise and cloud-based DDoS protection service.
During the first quarter Arbor will extend into the advanced persistent threat market leveraging the security analytics technology of Packetloop a company we acquired last year.
Close [ph] at Fluke Networks' recently released TruView network an application performance monitoring software grew significantly as enterprise customers looked for faster more efficient ways to monitor network performance and troubleshoot problems.
After a slow start to the year we were encouraged by Fluke Networks' mid-single-digit revenue growth in the second half.
During the quarter Tektronix Communications acquired Newfield Wireless.
Newfield's software provides mobile service providers with a visual representation of their network's performance including call detail traffic hotspots and usage data.
This technology combined with Tek Comm's network management expertise will enable providers to optimize their networks and maximize their subscribers' mobile experiences.
Turning to our Environmental segment revenues increased 10% with core revenues up 3.5%.
For 2013 revenues increased 8.5% while core revenues were also up 3.5%.
Core operating margin improved 80 basis points with reported operating margin down 50 basis points to 22.5% due primarily to the dilutive effect of recent acquisitions.
Our Water Quality platform's core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate with a double-digit increase in high-growth markets and solid demand in the North American industrial market.
Hach had its best quarter of the year delivering growth in all regions and major product lines.
The business again grew at a double-digit rate in China due in part to heightened government investment in conservation and municipal water quality projects.
ChemTreat had another outstanding quarter and it continues to gain share as our best-in-class field engineers deliver exceptional service and demonstrate the value of our solutions to customers.
As we highlighted at our Investor Meeting in December development of our sales team in Latin America remains a key priority for ChemTreat where we have doubled revenues in the past 3 years and grew more than 30% in the fourth quarter alone.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's core revenues increased at a low-single-digit rate driven by payment point-of-sale and environmental solutions.
During the quarter we introduced Insite360 a cloud-based platform that allows retailers to remotely configure and monitor their dispensers inventory and point-of-sale systems from any PC or mobile device.
Insite360 helps retailers identify theft detect environmental issues and prevent fuel runouts in real-time thus improving the economics and risk profiles of their businesses.
Earlier this month we acquired Outcast Media a leader in digital out-of-home advertising for the retail petroleum market.
Outcast enhances our point-of-sale product offerings and combined with Gilbarco Veeder-Root's Applause TV will help advance promotion delivery designed to grow convenience store sales and enhance drivers' fueling experiences.
Moving to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics revenues increased 5.5% with core revenues up 3.5%.
For the full year revenues increased 5.5% with core revenues up 4%.
Our reported operating margin increased 250 basis points to 16.7%.
Using DBS we have been able to improve margins while also expanding our long-term growth investments.
During the year we increased spending on commercial and innovation initiatives by approximately $120 million.
In our Diagnostics platform core revenues grew mid-single digits for the fourth quarter in a row.
Beckman Coulter Diagnostics' core sales grew at a low-single-digit rate with strength in immunoassay and clinical automation particularly in high-growth markets.
Clinical automation sales were up double digits as Beckman's best-in-class automation capabilities help customers improve workflow increase efficiency and reduce labor cost.
In China we grew revenues approximately 20% driven by a combination of our expanding installed base and continued government investment in health care infrastructure.
2013 was an important year of several milestones at Beckman as we resolved many of our remaining regulatory challenges including FDA clearance for troponin on all of our immunoassay and integrated chemistry systems while continuing to improve quality and delivery.
Though it's still early we are beginning to see the impact of the troponin clearance as both our retention and competitive win rates have improved since September.
During the quarter we introduced a new Vitamin D assay in Europe and Australia for our immunoassay platforms and also obtained U.S.
FDA clearance for the next-generation beta HTT assay which is used as an early pregnancy test.
Today we're positioned better than ever to focus on retaining and winning new customers and to more actively increase growth investments in the business.
Radiometer's core sales were up high-single digits with growth in most major product lines and geographies.
High-growth markets grew mid-teen with China leading the way.
Our instrument installed base continues to grow with placements of our AQT point-of-care immunoassay analyzer increasing more than 50% and our blood gas instruments up high-single digits in 2013.
We believe this momentum positions us well for outperformance in 2014 and beyond as we benefit from incremental consumables revenue.
Leica Biosystems saw broad-based growth with sales up high-single digits.
All major geographies grew at a mid-single-digit rate or better with strength in Japan and the Middle East.
Advanced staining revenues increased approximately 20% while core histology sales grew at a mid-single-digit rate.
We had a record year in the advanced staining franchise with net instrument placements increasing at a mid-teens rate and believe we are still increasing market share.
Core revenues in our Life Sciences platform grew at a low-single-digit rate led by the high-growth markets.
Sales were up more than 20% in the Middle East and double digits in Latin America and Western Europe.
AB SCIEX core sales grew low-single digits with strength in proteomics and applied markets.
AB SCIEX continues to broaden its global reach opening a new R&amp;D center in Singapore during the quarter AB SCIEX's first outside of North America.
The center brings development and manufacturing closer together while providing localized support for our Asia Pacific customers.
In addition AB SCIEX opened a new technical support and regional office in Dubai to better serve customers there in the Middle East.
As expected Leica Microsystems' core sales declined at a low-single-digit rate primarily as a result of a difficult prior year comparison due to the highly successful launch of the SP8 modular confocal microscope last year.
Orders grew double digits in the quarter with confocal microscopes up more than 20%.
We are confident that Leica will return to growth here in the first quarter.
Turning to Dental revenues for the quarter and full year increased 3.5% while core revenues increased 3%.
Operating margin decreased 150 basis points to 13.7% due in part to the negative impact of sales mix as our technology businesses grew faster than our higher-margin consumables businesses.
Spending on productivity initiatives and on targeted growth investments for new products set to launch in 2014 including 25 new introductions next month at the Chicago Midwinter show also negatively impacted margins in the quarter.
For the full year operating margin was 14.6%.
Dental consumables' core revenues increased at a low-single-digit rate as demand for implants was partially offset by a decline in professional consumables.
We continue to have tremendous success with our digital dentistry initiative.
Since its launch in June of last year we have sold more than 300 Lythos Digital Impression Systems which in turn helped drive record order growth in our Insignia orthodontic case starts during the year.
Insignia's digital treatment planning tailors custom-fabricated brackets wires and aligners to each aspect of tooth movement thereby decreasing office visits and treatment time while improving the patient experience and clinical outcomes.
Dental technology's core revenues grew mid-single digits as double-digit core growth in North America and China was partially offset by weakness in Western Europe.
Our new digital imaging solutions continue to be well received in the market particularly our new i-CAT FLX 3D digital imager.
Since the launch in the second quarter of last year we've sold more than 200 units the equivalent of more than 1 per day.
Additionally KaVo's DIAGNOcam a handheld radiation-free digital imaging scanner won the German innovation prize for most innovative equipment product in dentistry in a survey of more than 4 000 German doctors.
Moving to our Industrial Technology segment revenues increased 5.5% with core revenues up 3%.
For the full year revenues grew 3.5% while core revenues declined 0.5%.
Our core operating margin increased 20 basis points while reported operating margin declined 80 basis points to 17.3% due primarily to increased spending on productivity initiatives and the impact of recently acquired businesses.
Motion core revenues decreased at a mid-single-digit rate as growth in industrial automation and North American distribution was more than offset by a decline in our defense and engineered solutions verticals.
We are encouraged by the sequential improvement we saw in orders which turned positive in the fourth quarter for the first time in a year.
However we anticipate core sales will remain negative in the first quarter of 2014 as Motion exits some lower-margin businesses.
Core revenues in our Product Identification platform grew mid-single digits led by high-single-digit growth in our core marking and coding businesses.
Videojet had its best quarter of the year with strength in all major geographic regions.
Consumables revenue grew at a double-digit rate as our marketing initiatives and successful product introductions over the past several years have helped expand our installed base.
In Esko and X-Rite our innovation investments are helping accelerate growth with new products representing nearly 20% of total revenue in 2013.
One of the most exciting new product introductions is PantoneLIVE a cloud-based color management solution that helps brand owners accurately communicate color specifications across their entire supply chain improving the consistency of their brand image.
During the quarter Asda one of the largest supercenter chains in the U.K.
became the first retailer to implement PantoneLIVE.
So to wrap up as we anticipated when we were with many of you last month in New York we had a strong finish to the fourth quarter contributing to a solid year for Danaher.
Our team's commitment to and application of the Danaher Business System drove relative top line outperformance solid core margin expansion and excellent cash flow throughout the year.
We believe the investments we have made to drive long-term growth and productivity combined with our robust balance sheet and optimism on the acquisition front leave us well positioned to outperform in 2014.
We are initiating first quarter diluted EPS guidance of $0.76 to $0.80 and reaffirming our full year guidance of $3.60 to $3.75.
We anticipate approximately 3% core revenue growth in the first quarter which will be impacted by 1 less selling day than the first quarter of 2013.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal comments.
Marquita I think we are ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Nigel Coe with MS.
Research Division</strong> Good solid end to the year Larry.
Can you maybe talk about January? I know January is a fairly weak month for the quarter.
But maybe just talk about 3% in the context of what you've seen so far in January.
Yes.
I think you're exactly right Nigel.
It's hard to say too much about January given the nature of the month and how early it is.
But I think we were particularly encouraged by the way 2013 ended right? From a geographic perspective the strength was broad-based.
I think the same can be said from a line of business perspective.
We probably had a better book-to-bill than we had the year prior and I don't think there were any unnatural acts that by and large occurred.
So it was just good to see that sort of strength come into the new year.
I don't think we've seen anything in January that would deter us.
Again we mentioned in the formal remarks that we are short a selling day which will impact us probably more so in consumables than in equipment.
We know that Motion is still going to be exiting some of the low-margin business there.
But I think all-in we feel good about things.
But when we say approximately 3% I think we know that we clearly need a few more weeks behind us here to have a better bead on the first quarter.
But so far so good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great.
And then even though no one extrapolates or prorates the [ph] amount but given the 7-day pressure in 1Q given that Motion is still going through the rationalization of the product lines does this point us towards the higher end of that 2% to 4% for the full year Larry? For the year? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Well I don't think we're going to change that 2% to 4%.
But clearly getting off to a good start here in the approximately 3% range would at least put us at the midpoint.
And if the macro scene is better Nigel I'm highly convinced we're going to do well right? With our exposures from health care to industrial environmental networking an improved global scene will be very good for this portfolio and we'll execute accordingly.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then switching to margins.
And I just wanted to begin with Industrial.
You mentioned in the prepared remarks that productivity initiatives was one of the reasons why we saw some pressure there.
But I'm just wondering are we seeing any pricing pressure within industrial markets? Nigel it's Dan.
First of all if you just normalize year-on-year restructuring Industrial Tech margins were up 80 90 basis points.
We had a higher -- we had some additional opportunities.
We took advantage of it.
In terms of pricing it hasn't -- we definitely saw an impact probably late '12 and we've seen that continue where we're not getting any pricing in equipment generally speaking.
So we're still getting the kind of pricing you'd expect on the aftermarket.
But the period of the prior year you're getting a point or so on equipment and instruments.
It hasn't gotten worse but since about a year ago it's probably overall kind of flattish for us right now.
We'll take our next question from Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Could you expand on the write-down on the Communications platform talk about maybe what that investment was about I think and typically how much you capitalize in R&amp;D and sort of think about it from an investor's risk profile going forward? Just a little more perspective there.
Was it acquisition related at all or pure new investment and why? Steve I'll start and maybe let Larry chime in.
It was investment in a company relatively early-stage company that is continuing to perform reasonably well but behind the expectations we had at the time of the acquisition.
Because of that the accounting rules indicated that a write-down of a piece of the purchase price was appropriate.
So obviously we took that.
Obviously the Communications platform overall has been a very good very kind of high return for us.
Probably there'll be a little bit more risk.
And you can have situations like Arbor that play out well ahead of schedule.
This one we still believe in.
It's tracking okay but it's a little behind versus where we thought it would be at this point.
Yes.
Steve that's it exactly.
I would just add to that that we do a number of these things these sorts of investments to augment our competitive positions really around the portfolio.
And while you never want to see an impairment to have that business up double digit contributing is a good thing and a good thing long term.
You look at a small investment that we made that was really to seed core [ph] technology for Lythos the digital impression system we have up and running at Dental.
We did something similar that was really the foundation for what became AQT at Radiometer.
So we have a number of these small bets that we make that we don't really end up talking much about.
As Dan alluded to a moment ago clearly with the accounting rules we've got to call this out.
But I think it's just really part of the mosaic in terms of the investments we make organically and inorganically to drive long-term competitive strength and profitable growth.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And since we're talking about that segment what's your sense for the sustainability of that low-double-digit growth in tech -- Tek Communications I mean? Well I think we're in a very good spot there clearly in terms of the challenges we're helping our service provider customers solve as well as the folks on the enterprise side right? Network management particularly with the mobile explosion is a continuous challenge.
We're well positioned there.
From an enterprise perspective network management generally it does not get easier.
Clearly a day doesn't go by with the cyber security headlines being rewritten.
So we like where Comms we like where Arbor we like where Fluke Network is positioned.
I'm not sure we consistently sign up for double-digit growth there.
The Tek Comms business can be a little bit lumpy but I think we like the long-term trajectory there to be sure.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just turning to margins.
On the Dental side a little more color on the restructuring and growth investments there.
What -- a little more sense maybe for the nature of that.
Sure.
I think maybe just a little bit of context.
As we hinted in New York when we saw you I think we had a little bit better visibility at the end of '13 than we have the last couple of years.
So we had a little bit more room to do some things and Dental was one place where we took advantage of that envelope.
As we said about 100 basis points of costs that came forward.
Most of that was on the productivity side just to continue to sharpen up the cost structure there.
But we're really in the sweet spot both from a technical -- or technology perspective given where the product pipelines are and a lot of that comes out in February at Midwinter.
But also on the commercial side we wanted to pull some things forward particularly in Asia all of which I think gives us a good start to 2014.
And again the mix bit of it was important as well.
I think it's always good to see equipment show strength but there is a little bit of a squeeze there from a margin perspective in the short term.
We'll take our next question from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions.
Larry just first on the deal front.
Can you give us a little more color on where your comfort factor is? And the light in which I ask the question you may or may not have had interest but we saw a couple of health care deals trade away in the quarter.
Roper yesterday was saying a couple of things slipped through their fingers that others took at 20x EBITDA.
It still sounds like a very tough market to actually get things done.
Well I think we'd be the first to acknowledge that over the last 4 5 quarters things have become more difficult in general.
But I think our optimism Jeff is genuine because we're going to pick through a number of different situations that populate the funnels really across each and every platform.
And as we do that even in this environment we think there are opportunities for value creation.
We're going to stay disciplined no doubt about that.
I think that we take some encouragement from the fact that we did deploy $1 billion last year across admittedly 14 smaller transactions.
But as Dan and I look out there as we go through the monthly reviews we do with the businesses I think that we're well positioned financially and operationally to put that capital to work.
But on the margin you're spot on.
So it is a little tougher given the valuations particularly in the public arena than a year ago.
LLC</strong> So how do we think then about kind of Plan B another deployment if the deals don't materialize? And I was wondering also if Dan could maybe give us a little color like collectively what the acquired multiple was on those 14 transactions kind of aggregated multiple and aggregated sales acquired.
Jeff overall about 3x revenue and kind of a low-double digit 11x and I may be off by 0.5 point kind of EBITDA sort of multiple.
They are largely bolt-ons and tuck-ins so our confidence with those tend to be higher just because of the nature of what we can do on the cost side.
I'm just glad you didn't say it was 22x there.
Jeff the -- just back to Plan B.
I think the board and certainly Dan and I and the team are highly cognizant of the earnings power that we have in what is an under-leveraged balance sheet right? I think the bias that we have which is discussed and frankly reaffirmed at virtually every board meeting is toward the inorganic investments that have worked very well for us in building a strong company and driving a lot of value.
Things are going to come in ebbs and flows here but I think that balance or that bias is intact.
And we know that frankly just a few years ago after a somewhat quiet period we were uniquely positioned to go take Beckman on right? So again I think this is a live conversation with a strongly shareholder-oriented board at every meeting but the pronounced bias that we have is one we continue to think works for Danaher going forward.
We'll take our next question from Steve Tusa with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> So I think you guys mentioned $100 million in restructuring and the $75 million in benefits.
But I thought you said you did actually take some more here in the fourth quarter.
Was that just offset with growth? Is there -- is that just rounding error? Or can you maybe quantify what you did in the fourth quarter and talk about where -- within which segments you did it in? A lot of questions there.
I'll try...
Research Division</strong> It's basically fourth quarter restructuring.
What was the absolute number and where did you have them? So the absolute number was a little bit over $100 million compared to $120 million last year.
It was higher in Industrial Tech and Dental and it was lower in Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics.
So if you look at the core margin expansion of LS&amp;D up 260 if you normalize restructuring it'd be more like 150 basis points of core margin expansion.
We spent a little bit more than $100 million in the quarter but you could also see that where we -- we also really stepped up some of our growth investment.
So R&amp;D was up 13% year-on-year in the quarter.
It'd been tracking up around 8% or 9% through the first 9 months.
Sales and marketing a similar story.
We're up 9% in the quarter versus tracking maybe 6% or 7% for the first 3 [ph] quarters as I already alluded to.
Given where we saw some of the strength there was an opportunity to deploy some money that hopefully will benefit growth in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's really -- because that $100 million I don't think that's necessarily new relative to what you said in the third quarter.
I was under the impression that you had a little bit of revenue upside in the fourth quarter so you invested some of that away.
But I guess what you're saying is you invested that in -- it's reflected more in growth investments as opposed to productivity.
Sure.
I mean our R&amp;D itself was up $40 million almost $40 million in the quarter.
Our run rate would have suggested more like $30 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question.
Just on -- the Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics margins were very strong.
What is Beckman now doing? And what do you expect for Beckman margins next year? We -- for the full year mid-teens a little bit stronger in the fourth quarter though that is somewhat seasonal.
But as I mentioned to Jeff with a little lower restructuring very strong performance.
We're trying to get away from talking specifically kind of Beckman but it's a big piece of the segment and we would expect that segment to again be one of the larger contributors to the year-on-year margin expansion here that we expect in '14.
So things are tracking well.
More costs are coming out.
Very pleased with how the year trended in terms of their Beckman margins.
Research Division</strong> And sorry one last one just on the day sales thing.
You said it's mostly -- obviously mostly hits in consumables so that's a higher-margin issue.
Is there any way to kind of quantify the EPS impact of that or at least the profit impact of that? Well if you just assume 1-day impact on consumables no impact on equipment probably just a little bit but that would be 0.5 point of growth.
0.5 point of growth on $5 million (sic) is $25 million and that's a 50% fall-through that costs us a $0.01 $0.015 in the quarter.
We'll take our next question from Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Larry a couple of the businesses that have been tougher I mean Motion you talked about orders turning positive in the quarter.
Tektronix I guess is still down a little bit.
Can you give a little color on what you're seeing there? I mean is that flattening and turning positive dynamic just a comp issue? Or are you seeing things actually get better there? Yes.
No I think at Motion we were particularly pleased with the finish especially on the industrial automation side.
If you look we were up basically at a mid-single-digit rate in industrial automation in the quarter.
Now that's a portion of the business but that's really where a lot of our growth investments from a product and a go-to-market perspective have been made Shannon.
From a vertical perspective there it was broad-based.
Orders were up double digit in the fourth quarter in the U.S.
I think in China we finally had traction from an execution perspective.
So there's a lot there frankly that we're quite pleased with on top of the multiyear margin expansion that that team has put forward.
At Tek not necessarily thrilled to be down again in the fourth quarter.
But I think as we look forward given the historical lag effect around PMI we're optimistic that we return to growth here in '14.
Things have been a bit bumpy as you know there.
I think the China space particularly on the export side has continued to be particularly challenging.
But I think all in all Tek did a much better job from an execution perspective in a tough environment in 2013.
I think we held ground broadly and are poised to get back on the positive side of things here in the new year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for the whole company do you have what equipment and consumables each grew in the quarter? And just maybe any commentary on what you make of that in terms of customers' willingness to invest? Yes.
I think that's -- actually I mentioned this earlier Shannon.
As you know the book of business here is about 60-40 60% equipment 40% consumables and where we've really seen the sustained growth of late has been in consumables.
And we thought -- when we talked about as a 2.5% core in the fourth quarter we thought consumables would lead there.
We'd be slightly positive on equipment with consumables at a mid-single-digit rate.
To see consumables basically come in line but to have equipment come in a couple of hundred basis points better than that I think it's another one of the signs that we can take from the fourth quarter to say this broad-based geographic and product pickup that we saw came in equipment and those are clearly more important decisions if you will on the part of many customers.
So we're going to look at that to see how sustained that is as we get started here in 2014 but I think just that snapshot is one that's hard to interpret in anything other than a positive way.
We'll take our next question from Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> In Dental you discussed some mix issues in Q4 and some new product spend.
But I guess if I look at the year as a whole the margin was about flat.
How are you thinking about the mix items into 2014? I mean do you think we should see Dental incrementals pick up much or this is something that could persist? Julian I think you saw an improvement through the first 9 months of the year.
Again the fourth quarter was impacted primarily by the higher restructuring but as Larry indicated kind of the mix with the equipment better than consumables.
So given we have a little higher restructuring spend here in Q4 we expect a significant number of new product launches in the first half of '14 I think that bodes well not only for the top line but also for margin expansion here in '14.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then within Life Sciences you had a 40% incremental operating margin last year as a whole.
Is there a sense in which I guess a lot of the easy or early savings from Beckman have now been squeezed out and so you should see incrementals normalize pretty quickly this year? They'll come down a little bit but even our Radiometer and Leica Bio businesses just given the high consumable content there also continues to be very good even in the "more mature businesses" in terms of their tenure with Danaher still seeing good fall-through.
But it won't be probably at the level we saw in '13.
Julian I would just add to that that if you look at the productivity investments that we made in the fourth quarter LS&amp;D still accounted for about 1/3 of the overall total as Dan noted earlier down year-on-year but still an important part of that spend which I think speaks to just the visibility the teams have on opportunities.
Beckman's not the only relatively new business we have there.
So they're all keen to get after it to continue to get those margins up again because we think that segment ought to be a 20%-er.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly on the kind of your own investments outlook.
SG&amp;A to sales was flat last year.
Do you think that stays sort of flattish this year? And just any color on your CapEx assumptions for the year.
It should be.
I mean we make -- as I mentioned our sales and marketing were up 6% 7% for the year and we did a good job partially because of the '12 restructuring actually having our G&amp;A down a little bit.
A fair amount of the restructuring in Q4 was also targeting after G&amp;A here in '14.
So it probably climbs a little bit given the continued investment in sales and marketing.
From a CapEx perspective we are roughly teed up for kind of a low- to mid-single-digit increase in CapEx kind of PP&amp;E type CapEx.
We'll take our next question from Deane Dray with Citi.
Research Division</strong> On Motion I might have missed this but could you size for us the revenue impact on the businesses that you'll be exiting in 2014? And maybe share with us a little bit about what the tipping point might have been.
What's the decision-making as to to exit those businesses? Well I'll let Dan answer the first part of that.
I think with respect to the second part it was really really simple.
I think these were below-margin opportunities we've gotten a hold of that looked a little bit more attractive at a distance than they did up-close.
So effectively -- as you know Dean we've had a multiyear effort to put a premium on margin expansion in Motion.
I think we give the team very high margin in that regard.
And the walk from the revenue even though it impacts the print on the core revenue side of things is the right thing to do and the team has been at that for the better part of a year now.
Deane so we were -- Motion was down mid-single digit in the quarter.
Absent the businesses we've exited it would have been down low-single digit probably down 1 point or 2.
We expect that dynamic to continue here in the first quarter.
They're just getting better so we're going to have about a 4- to 5-point hit on growth from the exit of the business but it should be largely completed -- we have a little bit in Q2 but basically largely completed by the end of Q1.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
That's helpful.
And then on China the 20% up was that an overall clinical or was that at Beckman in particular? And maybe some color on there in terms of what the mix was.
Are these China-for-China products? And maybe a little bit about what kind of business you're seeing in China in Beckman.
Yes.
I would say that if you look at Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics today and I'll throw Dental in there as well we're clearly beneficiaries of this China-wide infrastructure build in terms of better clinical delivery.
We see that in the Diagnostics businesses we see that in Dental and as well from a research perspective both at SCIEX and at Leica.
We are still I would say Deane in the early innings of driving the localized product agenda that I'd like to see us execute upon in that segment.
Now we do have a pretty good Asian manufacturing footprint there.
A good bit of that is actually in Singapore.
You heard me reference in the prepared remarks the AB SCIEX footprint in Singapore.
Leica Micro enjoyed a similarly substantial position there.
So we have work to do there.
But frankly as these researchers and clinicians often return to China from their overseas educations and postings they're looking for the same sort of gear.
And in turn I think that's why you've seen Beckman and Radiometer Leica and SCIEX do so well in China the last several years.
Is that helpful? Research Division</strong> Yes it is.
We'll take our next question from Isaac Ro of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First one on Dental.
Just wondering if you could maybe comment on what you're seeing in the underlying patient volume trends in the U.S.
and then maybe what's baked into your assumptions for patient volumes this year.
Well I think that we certainly know that from a macro perspective patient volumes have been of late more sluggish than we've seen over the last 10 or 15 years particularly here in the U.S.
Western Europe to a slightly lesser degree.
But I think our view Isaac as you well know is that we really want to drive innovation couple that innovation with better commercial execution so that we can capture that value that we're adding on a per doctor per operatory per patient basis.
And I think we've been doing that lots of examples.
Most recently this digital dentistry initiative at Ormco I think is one where we're getting a lot of traction in that regard.
And to the extent that we can do that that drives share that drives value capture and coupled with what we're doing in the high-growth markets I mentioned China a moment ago we think Dental can be a good sustained mid-single-digit grower for us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's helpful.
And then just maybe switching over to T&amp;M.
You mentioned some of the investments you're making on the software side of the business which I would assume is going to carry higher margins over the long-term.
So if we assume that the capital equipment side of T&amp;M remains a little sluggish is it fair to say there'll be enough mix shift here on the underlying business to move the needle on overall margins in the segment? Maybe on the margin Isaac.
But it's a 20% segment and while some of the software businesses can carry higher gross margins they also carry some higher investment levels.
I think it's probably more about driving growth there than margin expansion.
Right.
And that's 1 segment Isaac where the variable margins on the equipment are well above the Danaher average.
So we don't get as much of a pronounced mix there between core equipment and aftermarket in whatever form it comes as we might elsewhere i.e.
Dental as was explained a few minutes ago.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just last one if I could sneak it in on the M&amp;A side.
Just given your earlier comments can you talk a little bit about where you think your funnel is strongest or maybe weakest for M&amp;A by segment? I would say it's pretty well balanced at this point Isaac.
As you know we've been working the Environmental side of things pretty hard.
That's an area where we'd like to do more.
There are certainly spots within both Industrial Tech particularly around Product ID as well as in T&amp;M particularly if we can lever the Fluke brand more broadly that are high priorities for us.
So we're working those hard but I don't mean to shortchange LS&amp;D or Dental.
They certainly have a good bit that they have their eyes on as well.
And we'll go next to Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on cash flow.
I think free cash flow was flattish versus last year.
And as we look at 2014 do you expect a pickup in cash flow? We just need to transition after we sort of digest M&amp;A to a more sustainable percentage of net income which sort of means cash flow is likely going to be a flattish for another year? Andrew the impact in 2013 was really not a lower -- it's not explained by lower M&amp;A activity.
It's a little bit of -- I hate to sort of hide behind this but a little bit of an accounting dynamic.
As you know we sold both our Tools joint venture and about half of our Align shares.
We brought in close to $1 billion from those 2 activities.
Those things were below the free cash flow line.
However the $175 million -- $150 million of taxes we paid on those gains negatively impacted our free cash flow.
So if we didn't have those 2 discrete items our free cash flow would have been up $100 million year-on-year.
Research Division</strong> And what should I think for '14 then? I mean I think if you adjusted for that we'd have close to 120% conversion.
Amortization alone gets us 15 points of conversion.
So something in that zone would be probably a reasonable guiding estimate here for '14.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And you said between 115% and 120%? Yes something in that zone.
Research Division</strong> And then the question on M&amp;A.
As you look at the opportunities do you think it's easier for you to do deals in sort of $1 billion $2 billion size? Or do you have an advantage looking at larger deals given the fact that you can extract synergies you get to keep them and so the economics changes quite a bit you being a strategic buyer versus the...
Well I think regardless of deal size each investment requires a certain level of work.
I think we've done large deals a la Beckman.
We've done some smaller transactions.
But once you get past that dynamic I think we feel pretty confident that both given the size of our financial capacity and again $8 billion of capital here in the near term coupled with our operating capabilities both in terms of the quality of the team and the Danaher Business System we are advantaged.
And that doesn't begin to address the fact that we take a long-term view right? And we can not only be patient but we bring that owner's mentality to building out the business and harvesting those top and bottom line synergies.
So we've been at this a long time and continue to believe that our organic strategy will complement what we do organically very well and create value for shareholders and build a sustainable franchise along the way.
And we'll take our final question from Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
On the Industrial Tech business maybe a little more color on kind of really what you're thinking on core growth in '14.
I mean Q4 this year was the best -- was the only positive quarter of the year the best 1 in 4 quarters and you still have some of those businesses that really aren't going to be strong growers at least in the first half of '14.
So just maybe a little more color on where you're seeing kind of a growth expectation on core for '14.
Charlie what we said -- as you recall what we said in New York is we thought for the full year Industrial Tech would be up 1% to 3% probably a little bit more of our cyclical exposure there.
So if things spring back just broadly I think we're well positioned.
Maybe the industrial automation performance I highlighted a moment ago suggests we're beginning to see some of that.
But I think by and large what will drive Industrial Tech aside from some of the headwinds you mentioned is the very strong performance we have seen and expect at Product ID.
Videojet Linx the marking and coding business have done very well the last couple of years.
We love what they're doing in terms of finding opportunities to invest in growth and their execution around those investments.
And while it's still early at X-Rite and to a degree Esko those businesses both play important roles in managing some of the more complex supply chain and brand management challenges that our customers particularly in consumer goods face.
So there's just -- it's a ripe field of opportunity.
The businesses are well positioned and they ought to lead the way this year.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back over to our moderator for any additional or closing remarks.
We'll be around -- thanks everybody for joining us.
We'll be around all day for follow-ups if you need anything.
Thanks.
That does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning everyone.
My name is Debbie and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Matt McGrew Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
McGrew you may begin your conference.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer; Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Matt Gugino our Director of Investor Relations.
We are also joined by Steve Rales our Chairman of the Board.
Given last night’s announcement on the CEO transition our earnings calls can be slightly different format here this quarter wherein Steve will open with a couple of remarks on the transition before getting into the details of the quarter and then the Q&amp;A.
So with that let’s get through the disclosures.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call our first quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investor section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information.
The audio portion of this call will be archived in the Investor section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until April 24 2014.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the confirmation code is 6763223.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
The supplemental materials and our first quarter Form 10-Q describe additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Unless otherwise noted all references in these remarks and supplemental materials to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate to the first quarter of 2014 and relates only to the continuing operation of Danaher's businesses and all references to period-to-period increases or decreases in the financial metrics are year-over-year.
During the call we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are the subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings and actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we may make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I'll turn it over to Larry.
Matt thank you and good morning everyone.
Before we get into the details of the quarter I’d like to say a few words about the announcement we made yesterday regarding the CEO succession.
Next year marks my 25<sup>th</sup> anniversary with the company with more than half of that time as President and CEO.
I’ll be in the fortunate position next year of having 14 years in the CEO saddle while yet still shy of my 52<sup>nd</sup> birthday.
Although many CEOs do not serve this long I am sure last night’s news comes as a surprise for many of you not because of my tenure but because of my age.
I am convinced in my head that it’s the right time for a transition both for Danaher and for me personally.
This decision is mine.
So let me answer the obvious question why? It’s pretty simple actually after spending half of my life with this great company I’d like to do something different in the next chapter of my life.
Danaher today is strong I think you see that in our results and we have every conceivable strategic degree of freedom in front of us.
The team is strong and Tom is the right person to be our next CEO.
I’m a life-long student of Thomas Jefferson and have always been struck by the wisdom of what he has written about the benefits of revolution every twenty years or so.
So while I don’t anticipate a revolution per se at Danaher I do take a fresh look of free swing to be a value to the company.
That said this decision is hard on the hard.
I love this job and more importantly the people with whom I get to work every day.
I will miss them greatly.
So many of you have asked so what I am going to do.
Well after this call I am going to go back to work.
We have a lot going on and there is much I want to do before next March.
First Tom the rest of the team and I will be working closely to effect the smooth Danaher class transition.
In turn I am looking forward to spending more time in some areas of real interest to me particularly education and perhaps even teaching.
I am also keen doing some things with my family with the 24/7 nature of this job to make difficult.
And I am hopeful that I will be able to bend the rod more regularly than I had in recent years.
But good bye to the long way off today.
So let me stop there and hand it over to our Chairman Steven Rales for a few comments before we discuss the details of the first quarter.
Thank you Larry and good morning everyone.
I’d like to begin by saying that the Board fully endorses everything that Larry has just said.
He has done an outstanding job to this company for 24 years and in particular as CEO during the past 13 years.
As most of you know we will be sorry to see Larry eventually move on but we respect his personal decision and are fully confident we will have a smooth transition just as we did with our two previous CEO transitions.
As all of us well know Larry has been instrumental in driving Danaher’s success.
Just a few highlights.
Revenues I have watched them grown from about $4 billion to nearly $20 billion while our market cap has grown from under $10 billion to more than $50 billion.
Shareholder returns of five times that of the S&amp;P 500 index since Larry took the rings.
Our annual revenue and high growth markets has increased ten-folds from less than $500 million to now $5 billion and free cash flow has exceeded net income every year of his tenure.
At the same time.
Larry has played a central role in expanding the Danaher business system and is building Danaher into a science and technology company.
He has also developed the deep and talented management team that is ready to take on new challenges.
Larry is the first to acknowledge that there is always more work to be done but mean time Board and management recognizes his many achievements and we thank him for his (Inaudible).
Fortunately Danaher has a history of developing strong managers and Tom Joyce is ready to become our next CEO.
Tom has spent 25 years with Danaher and in 53 still has plenty of runway ahead of him.
He has succeeded throughout his career and challenging assignments in all parts of Danaher.
Tom is a superb strategic thinker with strong operating and people skills.
He is currently responsible for our water quality life sciences and diagnostics platforms which collectively represents $9 billion of annual revenues.
He help shape the current portfolio with the acquisition and integration of many of Danaher’s leading brands including Beckman Coulter AB SCIEX and ChemTreat.
He is also a seasoned teacher and practitioner of DBS and has played a key role in enhancing many of the tools and metrics upon which DBS is built.
All of us have great confidence in Tom’s ability to lead Danaher to execute on our strategic priorities and in turn with the supporting cast and 65 000 plus associates create significant value for our shareholders.
Now let me turn the call back to Larry to talk about earnings.
Happy with that Steve thank you.
We are off to a good start in 2014 and our team’s execution a function of our commitment to the Danaher Business System show better than expected top-line growth outstanding margin expansion and solid earnings performance in the quarter.
We saw positive impact to DBS across our portfolio for the acceleration of new product introductions and go to market initiatives help drive mid-single-digit growth or better and a broad range of our operating companies including Hach Gilbarco Radiometer AB SCIEX Implant Direct Videojet and Esko.
This strong growth coupled with our solid cross-management by the team led to core operating margin improvement of more than 125 basis points in four of our five segments.
So with that as a backdrop let’s move to the details of the quarter.
This morning we reported adjusted diluted net earnings per share of $0.81 up 8% and representing another record first quarter for Danaher.
Revenues for the quarter grew 5% to $4.7 billion with core revenues up 3.5%.
The positive impact of acquisitions increased revenues by 2% which was partially offset by negative currency translation of 50 basis points.
Despite the headlines high growth markets remained strong increasing at a high single-digit rate.
China grew approximately 10% led by our Water Quality Gilbarco Veeder-Root Diagnostics and Dental Platforms.
Latin America and the Middle East both grew at a double-digit rate and India was up high single-digits.
The developed markets grew at a low single-digit rate as both the U.S.
and Europe grew low single-digits.
This mark the third consecutive quarter of positive growth in Europe.
Japan sales increased at a double-digit rate.
Gross margin increased 30 basis points to 52.6% and gross margin expansion along with the productivity and efficiency initiatives made in 2013 has allowed us to grow our investments in R&amp;D and sales and marketing.
Core operating margin expanded 100 basis points with reported operating margins at 16.9%.
On the capital allocation front M&amp;A remains our primary focus and in the first quarter we deployed approximately $160 million on five bolt-on acquisitions to further strengthen our competitive positions within our Test and Measurement and Environmental segments.
We also increased our annual dividend to $0.40 per share from $0.10 per share in February.
With a healthy balance sheet and robust acquisition funnel we remain confident in our ability to deploy more than $8 billion in M&amp;A capacity.
Turning to our five operating segments Test and Measurement revenues grew 2% with core revenues up 1%.
Core operating margin expanded 125 basis points and reported operating margin increased 20 basis points to 22.1%.
Core revenues in our Instruments platform grew low single-digits.
Fluke core revenues increased at a low single-digit rate for the second quarter in a row led by demand for Industrial Test products in China and Europe and calibration products globally.
Next month we are launching Fluke Connect a collection of 20 fluke tools that wirelessly connect to a smartphone app allowing maintenance technicians to capture store and share data on mobile devices and in the cloud using data captured in our analytical software technicians will now be able to quickly and proactively address problems with critical equipment before it fails.
We have also closed on the acquisition of Unfors RaySafe a global leader in testing devices software and systems for diagnostic imaging equipment.
Unfors complements Fluke’s existing offering of biomedical testing products.
At Tektronix core revenues declined slightly as solid growth in Latin America and the Middle East was more than offset by weakness in U.S.
military and government verticals.
Core revenues from our Communications platform grew low single-digits as strong demand for mobile network monitoring and enterprise network analysis tools was partially offset by weakness in network security.
At Fluke Networks we introduced the LinkSprinter network tester and cloud service a pocket-size tool that allows network specialist to view emails store and analyze your test results on smartphones or in the cloud.
Revenues from new products such the LinkSprinter have increased 20% from the comparable amount in 2013 and now represents nearly a quarter of Fluke Networks’ total sales.
Apart from evolving to take full advantage of the tremendous opportunity may possible by today’s computing and communications technologies both Fluke Connect and Fluke Networks’ LinkSprinter launches are examples of that shift and provide our customers with the ability to not only perform complex testing but to access analyze and act on critical information in real-time.
Moving over to our Environmental segment revenues increased 6% with core revenues up 4%.
Core operating margin expanded 145 basis points while reported operating margin was up 30 basis points to 18.9%.
Our Water Quality platform’s core revenues grew at a low single-digit rate led by a double-digit increase in the high growth markets.
Hach had another strong quarter led by double-digit growth in service and healthy municipal demand in Europe.
During the quarter Hach expanded its product line with the acquisition of BioTector a global provider of online TOC or Total Organic Carbon analyzers that monitor water quality and help reduce waste primarily the petrochemical and food and beverage industries.
At Trojan we received IMO type approval for our full suite of UV ballast water treatment products in early March.
With this approval our team can now see the opportunity to help customers who have been waiting for an IMO approved ballast water solution.
Importantly our testing was performed at a U.S.
certified lab which provide us with an advantage as we seek U.S.
type approval in the next stage of the regulatory process.
We believe Trojan low energy requirements small footprint and ease of use differentiate our solution and position us to capitalize on this tremendous opportunity.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root core revenues increased mid-single-digits led by point-of-sale and payment solutions globally and strong dispenser demand in Western Europe and China.
Our comprehensive product suite continues to differentiate us in the marketplace and GVR was recently voted the best POS system and fuel dispenser manufacturer by the Petroleum Marketers Association of America.
In life sciences and diagnostics revenues grew 6% with core revenues up 4%.
Core operating margin expanded 75 basis points and reported operating margin was up 50 basis points to 13.2%.
Core revenues in our Diagnostic platform grew at a low single-digit rate.
At Beckman Coulter core sales were up led by healthy demand in the high growth markets.
Beckman continues to strengthen its competitive position with first-quarter wins in North America exceeding those made during all of 2013.
This marks Beckman’s best quarter since the acquisition and expanding its install base.
We also achieved an important milestone on the regulatory front receiving closure of the last two FDA warning letters at our Chaska and Miami facilities.
Earlier this month Beckman expanded its world-class automation capabilities with the introduction of the UniCel DxH Connected Workcell.
This scalable work flow management solution enables our hematology lab customers to connect up to three analyzers to a slide maker stainer increasing efficiency and reducing turnaround time for each critical test.
Radiometer’s core sales increased high single-digits as we continue to benefit from our growing install base of acute care instruments.
This represents the ninth consecutive quarter of high single-digit growth or better for Radiometer.
Demand was strong across all platforms with core blood gas sales up high single-digits.
High growth markets remain robust led by China and the Middle East each of which grew over 20%.
Sales at Leica Biosystems were up mid single-digits led by mid-teens growth in advanced staining and digital pathology.
Core histology revenues decreased mid single-digits impart due to a large project shipment in the prior year.
During the quarter we received FDA clearance for the Leica BOND Oracle HER2 IHC System on the Leica BOND-MAX.
This HER2 test is used to help determine the appropriate treatment for breast cancer and in combination with the speed and efficiency of the BOND-MAX provides patients with quicker access to important test results and treatment plans.
Our life sciences platform had a good start to the year.
Core sales increased mid single-digits with all major geographies contributing to the growth.
AB SCIEX core sales grew high single-digits as strength in the clinical and academic markets drove double-digit growth.
Earlier this month we expanded the capabilities of our mass spec offerings in clinical settings with the release of a newborn screening assay for use on the 3200MD IVD system in Europe.
This assay allows labs to detect metabolic disorders in newborns more accurately and more efficiently than traditional diagnostic tests.
In our separations business we launched the CES IMS which helps our customers more accurately predict the efficacy and reduce the time to market for pharmaceuticals.
Leica Microsystems core sales were up mid single-digits with growth in most major product lines.
Geographically high growth markets grew double-digits with sales of Japan up more than 20%.
Dental had an outstanding start to 2014 with the investments we’ve been making in new product development help drive excellent top-line and operating margin performance.
Reported and core revenues grew 6% representing the segment’s best quarterly performance in three years.
Both core and reported operating margin increased 170 basis points to 14.8%.
At the Chicago Midwinter Dental meeting in February we were excited to announce the formation of the KaVo Kerr Group which strategically unites our leading dental consumables equipment hi-tech and specialty brands under one global platform and get our brands at the scale they need to better drive innovation improve clinical outcomes and simplify workflows.
Both customer and end-user reception since the launch has been very positive.
Dental Consumables core revenues grew mid single-digits with broad based demand across all major geographies.
Orthodontics professional consumables and implant revenues all grew mid single-digits or better.
During the quarter Kerr launched the SonicFill Dental composite system in China and Japan further expanding the products’ global application.
SonicFill is the only solution that enables clinicians to perform cavity restoration in posterior teeth with an easy-to-use single-step Sonic activated handpiece.
SonicFill has already been a tremendous success around the world with more than 4 million sets shipped worldwide since the initial launch in the middle of 2011.
Dental Technologies core revenues also increased mid single-digits with solid demand for our suite and imaging products.
At the Chicago Midwinter Show we launched more than 20 new products including the DEXIS CariVu a portable imager that pairs with our software and uses illumination technology to better assist doctors in identifying lesions and cracks in teeth.
And finally the Industrial Technologies’ revenues grew 4.5% with core revenues up 3% and core operating margin expanded 185 basis points while reported operating margin increased 160 basis points to 22.5%.
Motion platform core revenues improved sequentially from the fourth quarter but still declined at a low single-digit rate.
Strong sales in North American distribution was more than offset by a weak defense market and the impact of exiting certain lower margin product lines.
We expect to complete that transition in the second quarter.
We remain really pleased with the team’s execution on operating margin which increased more than 200 basis points from the prior year.
Our Product Identification platform core revenues were up mid single-digits with growth across most major geographies.
Videojet’s growth was balanced with mid single-digit growth in both consumables and equipment.
During the quarter Videojet launched the 8610 thermal inkjet printer world’s first TIJ printer specifically designed for fast drying ink enabling customers to print high resolution codes on non-porous surfaces four times faster than other inkjet technologies.
At ESKO our suite of packaging management and design software grew double digit as the need for more efficient solutions across packaging workflow continues to build.
ESKO remains the workflow management software provider of choice for brand owners with sales increasing more than 30% in this market.
So to wrap up we are off to a very good start in 2014 as our teams’ execution drove better than expected revenue growth outstanding margin expansion and solid earnings performance.
The Danaher Business System has helped build momentum across the portfolio by driving continued share gains and funding increased growth investments.
We believe this momentum along with our robust balance sheet and confidence on the acquisition front position us well in 2014.
We are initiating second quarter diluted net earnings per share guidance of $0.90 to $0.94 which assumes core growth comparable to the first quarter.
We are also reaffirming our full year 2014 diluted net earnings per share guidance of $3.60 to $3.75.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes the formal comments.
Debbie we're ready for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We'll go first today to Scott Davis with Barclays.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
Congrats Larry on a great run.
Also just having the guts to make the decision I mean a lot of guys would sit around and kind of milk this job for a while.
Obviously you are not doing that so congrats.
Thank you Scott.
Is there any risk I mean how do you avoid with the change in 12 months out I mean how do you avoid 12 months of inertia here? How are guys going to think about deals? <br>As this increase your – I mean how does it change? I would be kind of awkward I think to announce the substantial deal and that passed on to Tom at this juncture.
But is that the wrong way to think about it? Scott I understand the concern but I think that’s the last way we would think about it.
Tom and I have worked together for 25 years.
We have been both partners for over a decade.
So I think that on the M&amp;A front Tom begins to be more a part of that conversation as we think about identify and cultivating pursuing targets.
We wouldn’t chase anything at this point that Tom wasn’t fully brought into.
But we do not slow down here at all in terms of what we want to do from an M&amp;A perspective.
I think that we got the time here to effect operationally organizationally a very smooth transition and I am exceptionally confident that Tom Dan the rest of the team and I are going to be able to work together as we always have over these next several months during transition.
Tom of course will be spending time with businesses that he doesn’t know as well getting up to speed on some of the CEO duties that will be his come mark but from an M&amp;A perspective I think it’s very much business as usual.
And I have to go back – if you go back to my first year as CEO I’ll never forget my first Danaher Leadership Conference where we announced three deals that week.
So there is think precedent and confidence to suggest here that the transition no way will dilute or impede our activity on the M&amp;A front.
Okay fair point and I don’t know if Steve Rales is still there available for questions if he is I thought to ask one if he is available.
He is here Steve – he is here Scott.
Okay great and Steve I mean I guess my question for you is when Larry took over as you said it was a $4 billion revenue company now it’s a $20 billion company so substantially more complicated and quality is definitely a lot higher sure but how is the mandate for Tom change how – stepping into a he is filling the seats of a guy who just had a five-bagger in market cap and 13 years that’s a pretty tough shoes to fill.
I mean how does the mandate for Tom change? How does the Board think about how this company grows from $50 billion of market cap to something that’s acceptable to shareholders in that same timeframe?  Thank you Scott.
I think the conversations about longer-term strategy and capital allocation are regular subjects to the Board.
This is the Board that’s not unfamiliar with either of those.
We'll examine the market as we always do.
We have lengthy conversations with Larry Tom Dan and the rest of the team and we’ll continue to evaluate opportunities as we have for the last 25 or 30 years.
We think it’s an exciting runway ahead we’ve never been into better position from the balance sheet standpoint and I think there are plenty of opportunities that will be very exciting and I expect shareholders at the end of the day will be winners as a result.
Okay fair point.
Thanks Steve.
Congrats Larry and good luck to Tom.
Pass it on.
Thanks Scott we’ll do.
We’ll take our next question from Steve Tusa with J.P.
Morgan.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Congrats Larry.
I echo with Scott’s comments.
Thank you very much.
How are you guys looking at the macro environment and maybe if you could just talk about specifically what’s going on in China and in Europe? Sure I think that we were pretty pleased from a geographic perspective with the way things played out.
Just maybe a word on the U.S.
we saw – like a number of companies a slow start to the year particularly in businesses where getting out every day is important whether that be on the diagnostics side all the way to – but we really we are encouraged by the building strength during the quarter and the way we exited the first quarter and even way we’ve begun April here.
Europe third quarter in a row being positive admittedly it’s up in low single-digits but that’s too has been encouraging just given the history.
Our European leadership conference was held just two weeks ago and the mood there Steve was buoyant as it’s been in several years.
So we are optimistic there particularly with respect to life sciences the dental side of things and TID our oral health position in Europe.
China clearly lot of headline concerns there.
But we are pretty pleased to see double-digit first quarter with a bit better balance between our healthcare businesses which in the last few years have really led the way.
Dental was up over 20% LS&amp;D up about 10% with the industrial businesses also doing better particularly in the environmental round.
So we are going to watch China carefully some of the other high growth markets that’s why we said back in December we thought the gap between the high growth markets and the development markets might narrow a bit that play out for us here in the first three months.
But still very much the high growth markets in the pole position.
So we like what we saw broadly around the world in the first quarter.
And in the April you said April was how good as kind of April started and are you kind of assuming that do you know falls off here in the second half and you are consistent guidance for the second quarter is there a comp issue in the second quarter with some similar organic? No I think – we are really talking about a comparable core in the second quarter mindful that it’s still relatively really in the year obviously a host of concerns out there in terms of the macro theme.
I think if we look at the way the first quarter played out we knew we were hurt by one less selling day particularly in consumables and probably helped a little bit given the Japanese tax dynamics.
I suspect they wash while we were thrilled with how strong dental Hach VideoJet life sciences were relative expectations.
We did have a choppy start in T&amp;M particularly in – and that's a space both with some of the mobile carriers and with some of our larger enterprise customers we want to watch carefully.
So I think comparable to the 3.5 we rung up here in the first quarter feels about right but we really like the exit rate in March and while it’s just a couple of weeks I’m encouraged by the start here in April.
And then one last question.
Larry I know you are probably this is probably a dumb question but I guess in your mindset are you still of the mind or you may spend some time with your family or this is kind of – do we take this you are kind of done with the large public company digs I mean are you going to take and are you kind of retiring? I mean politics have you thought about what the next step is at all should we be surprised to see you resurface at another public company in a few years or it’s probably like you know a tough question answer obviously at this stage? But thanks for asking it.
Steve you know I am very fortunate given the great run that we had for a long time here that there probably hasn’t been a large public job that hasn’t been floated my way in the last six seven years.
But you see where I am.
This is a great job.
Tom he is a lucky guy to have that opportunity here in a while.
My view is I am going to be full speed up until March 1 and then I am going to be in advisory capacity doing anything and everything that Tom wants me to do including get out of the way.
But I am genuine and serious about wanting to do some other things.
So while I would say never say never I think I’ve had a pretty good job here and in this realm it will be tough to be.
Okay congrats to Tom by the way too.
Thank you Steve.
We’ll take our next question from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Yes thanks good morning.
Hate to sound repetitive but congratulations Larry.
And f you decide on politics I think the government could use some DBS methodologies.
So you think about that.
Thanks thank you Nigel.
So it sounds like March was stronger than Jan Feb and it doesn’t feel like the weather had a big impact on your organic performance.
I am wondering the impacts on consumables with equipment and whether that dynamic had any impact on your margin improvements during the quarter and how that maybe – shake up by segments? Sure Nigel.
This is Dan.
Good morning.
Consumables were up 4% during the quarter which has been pretty consistent maybe 50 basis points lighter than what we saw in the second half of last year.
I think you could really explain that entirely by the one less selling day.
I think what was really encouraging during the quarter was the equipment side.
We were up 3.5% that is the best number we posted in a number of quarters balance stability it was the first as Larry alluded to better breadth in China.
It’s the first quarter in a long time that all five segments were up in China.
Healthcare was up more than industrial but again seeing some footing there.
We were up 100 basis points in terms of core margin expansion.
Some good improvement there do we make a little bit more money on consumables and equipment we do but it didn’t really seem to impact margins at all during the quarter.
Okay.
And then just going back to the – it’s obviously a pretty healthy debate on capital deployments PE seems to be pretty active pushing up multiples to some pretty high levels.
A lot of public companies that are out there saying they want to do more M&amp;A.
I am just wondering is the environment tougher to deploy capital and then maybe just turning to that as well what is the message on dividends? You obviously increased as four folds during the quarter still a lot low in terms of pay out.
But what is the message on dividends? Nigel let me speak to M&amp;A maybe Dan will talk a bit to dividends.
I think from an M&amp;A perspective there is no question that the environment given valuations first in the public market and the spillover effect in the private markets has been more challenging in the last couple of years I think we have acknowledged that.
But fortunately given the breadth of our portfolio and the inventory of markets we have an interest in we don’t have to buy market indices right.
All we are really looking to do is identify and invest in discrete companies which we think are great fits with the Danaher portfolio and it’s really from that perspective that we are out talking to a lot of people really across the entire corporation about opportunities that we think would be glove fits for Danaher and for DBS.
So different environments are challenging in different ways I don’t think that they – that we see private equity even with their resources being a primary competitor for us.
It continues to be rare for us to see PE as the competition around an asset that we might cover.
Clearly the last several months have had some situations where we’ve been mentioned in combination with private equity but largely around assets where our interest was partial not full.
When we have strong interest in an asset in its entirety I think we have great confidence in our ability to carry the debt.
Dan? Nigel on the dividend it’s like the increase we know it’s still relatively modest it represents at $0.40 a share would represent about 10% of our free cash flow per year.
So we are not trying to signal anything there.
The strong bias is still very much M&amp;A and expect that to continue.
But it does create another vector to return some capital to shareholders.
Okay thank you very much guys.
You bet thank you.
We will take our next question from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Larry the accolades are going all year I'll just echo them.
We’ll miss you.
Thanks Jeff.
Good luck.
I just want to come back again maybe approach M&amp;A again to the question that Steve Rales is still there and to take another one.
You have kind of unique position with your involvement with full effect also obviously and they do seem to be able to get that done over there.
And I guess it does brings the question is it simply a law of large number of dynamic that has come to bear as it relates to Danaher? Is there a need eventually to revaluate the portfolio or think of a new leg to open another vector for capital deployment? Do you think a question of size only has the ability to kind of perpetuate the business model? Thank you Jeff.
But first let me say yes I am a shareholder of Colfax Corporation full stop.
Second going back to what we talked about earlier our Board has a very long view and our objective is to continue to try and find the way along with the management to make our businesses better and add value for shareholders.
It’s an evolving process.
It’s an ambulatory process.
We are constantly looking at M&amp;A there is a certain vicinity if you will to the law of large numbers but we think more about opportunities and making our businesses better.
Truthfully Larry and Dan do a very nice job of communicating the company’s view on M&amp;A so I would defer to either them on the question.
Jeff I would just add that we really don’t think beating a $20 billion revenue based company a $ 50 billion market cap in anyway get in the way in terms of doing M&amp;A.
I think it’s just the opposite.
At every step along the way as we’ve gotten bigger and in terms stronger we’ve had more degree to freedom we’ve had more – more capacity to do the things that we think really build an outstanding company over time witness Beckman Coulter.
If you look at the way we’ve run M&amp;A on a daily basis it really starts with all the strategic platforms which would be great mid cap companies all by themselves if they were stand alone entities and it’s really that family of mid-cap companies working their market’s funnels around competitors distribution technology bolt-ons that maybe of interest in addition to the adjacencies which give us the bulk of our flow around the smaller transactions that you see.
The team here in Washington which I think is outstanding.
It’s really the group that targets the new space with the larger situations which naturally are going to be less frequent and at times more meaningful decisions this year amount of capital deployed.
So I don’t think that while we have great respect for Steve and the team at Colfax we don’t really think that there are lessons there that will help us deploy the next eight plus billion in capital we intend that will build out our companies.
All right fair enough.
Just a quick one for Dan if I could.
You did get a number of small deals currently in the first quarter can you give us an idea of how many transactions were in there and what the average valuation was? Jeff we closed five acquisitions in the quarter which was an increase and we are seeing actually an increase around small deals which hopefully will be a positive sign about potentially getting something bigger done.
Spend about a $160 million so relatively modest.
A mix some of those are businesses that are relatively low margin today but it will come in as bolt-ons or create opportunities on the margin side so those are all situations where we think we can get a 10% return exceed 10% within three years.
All right thank you very much and good luck Larry.
Thanks Jeff.
I’ll still be around a while.
We’ll take our next question from Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.
Thanks good morning and obviously I’ll echo that congratulations Larry fantastic.
Thank you Steve.
So hey since you are a student of Thomas Jefferson I can’t help but recite one of his quotes right delay it’s preferable to err on the capital deployment side you didn’t say that second part but it’s a great quote and I understand that sort of how you are thinking about it.
Is that $8 billion still the right number I should be thinking about? Steve it’s Dan.
I mean clearly if you look at the balance sheet the breadth of our the quantity of our free cash flow you can pencil out a larger number that until we obviously get some deals done aside I think we will stick with the $8 billion.
Okay and Dan while I’ve got you since we are in this period where M&amp;A is a lot smaller in terms of reviewing the portfolio right now the – where can ROIC go and I am just assuming that there is a continued delay for a little bit of time and how do you see ROIC kind of playing out in that event? Well you’ve been seeing at 50 to 100 basis point increase in annual ROIC given that we’ve had fewer acquisitions.
I would be happy to see that stop for a little bit.
We’d bring in some larger ones but I think if you look at Q1 I think representative of last year up 3.5% core growth and earnings up 8% we are getting I think good relative performance on the top-line and good margin expansions along with it and that's obviously increasing our overall returns.
Okay and sir if I could add one more just on the earnings side the dental strength that you guys had was a surprise to me anyway.
What do you really attribute that to? Is it sort of product market or what can you identify kind of that and give us a sense for the sustainability or you just think it’s sort of a lumpy demand and we just have to be like this quarter? Steve I think if you look both at the consumables versus technologies divide as well as the look around the world the strength was very broad based.
I don’t think they continue at that rate.
We did get a little bit of help from Japan given the VAT increase.
But it was once said dental is a mid single-digit grower strong imaging and digital franchises and technologies and while they are rarely home run products in consumables we had a wonderful wave of products launched at Midwinter.
The team continues to execute better both in the U.S.
and in Europe while China clearly is a concern for a lot of folks our dental business continues to do very well there.
So again I think we probably come down a little bit from what we saw in the first quarter but dental ought to continue to be a contributor to it for us as we go through the year.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You bet Steve.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Shannon O'Callaghan with Nomura.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Shannon.
Congrats Larry.
Great job and really happy for you.
Good luck with the next part of the journey but we will have you around for a while.
Hey you mentioned speaking it being around for a while you mentioned wanting to get some things done before you leave I mean are there any sort of big things on that checklist that you think you want to make sure you get done before you hand it off? I’d like to write a few more checks before I go.
Okay so it’s mainly M&amp;A focused anything other than that sort of that internal initiatives or other things that you feel like you want to bring to posture now? Well I think a lot of our internal initiatives are around the high growth markets around what we are doing in terms of taking full advantage of the web what we are doing increasingly at a platform and regional level is work that we won’t finish when Tom hands.
This is the work that Tom and I and the rest of the team has been engaged in together for some time.
Tom and I will be dividing and conquering over the next year and that’s where I’ve been focused and we’d expect to continue to be focused.
Clearly getting the team ready as well as they assume the new and additional responsibilities will be part of – of where I’ll be focused.
But also just making sure that Tom's ready.
I can vouch now from experience that this is one of the more meaningful transitions that you have as an operating leader.
Tom is more than capable but we want to make sure he is just tuned all the way up come March 1 to be ready to go as I know he will be.
Okay thanks.
And then you’re seeing some of these other encouraging trends across the businesses/ where do you think the tech instruments business is at this point? You had some of this military government pressure that’s one vertical but maybe talk across the others and where do you think that is and what’s it going to take to get going? Well I think that we will take this stability that we are seeing in some of the larger tech verticals like computers communications semi and alike.
The broader distribution business has actually been decent but again because of the gov dynamics particularly in the U.S.
here at the start of the year which we saw – I know some competitors have spoken to puts us in that flattish zone.
We’d like to thin k we see a little bit of an uptick from there but don’t anticipate necessarily a pronounced spring back at Tektronix through 2014 but gradual improvement.
Okay all right thanks a lot guys.
Thank you Shannon.
We will take our next question from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse Congratulations.
I just had a quick question on broader one test and measurement really.
If you look at the organic growth in that segment the last ten quarters it’s about 0.5%.
I just wanted to know something with the portfolio you needed some major work in – or it’s just a function of sluggish macro factors? Julian thank you.
Relative to your question I think you really have to look at the segment in two halves the communication platform has really been a nice performer for us particularly around the mobile networks build out that we’ve been a large part of.
We think that opportunity that challenge is to keep up with the explosion in bandwidth demand that we are all generating which will be with us for a while.
Soft start to the year in network security but as you know the last couple years that’s been a strong performer for us and we are optimistic that it will return the type of performance as we go through the year.
But on the instrument side Fluke has had a tough goal of it particularly in places like China where there is the slowdown in the industrial factor has been particularly pronounced.
At Tektronix we just spoke to that a moment ago with Shannon I think those dynamics are well known.
But we are encouraged by Fluke here putting up another quarter of positive growth.
We really like these new products that are coming out and a review just last week with the commercial team I really liked what I saw in terms of the launch plans for the second quarter and the second half.
So while Fluke is unlikely to be a high single-digit grower for us any time soon we think we get Fluke back here to a more normal low to mid single-digit range as we go through the course of the year and while tech will be challenged we build on that stability and hopefully get them back to growth as we go through the year.
Great thanks and then life sciences the last couple of years each year you had large expansion about 150 BPS each year Q1 was up 50 BPS life science is larger is that kind of the run rate going forward just because I guess most of that savings is now been squeezed out? Julian we were – core margins are up about 75 basis points in the first quarter.
So there was a little bit of acquisition noise.
Life science was stronger than diagnostics and again I think diagnostics their shipments were up low single-digits that was – we believe largely impacted by one less day.
If you look at their orders they were up mid single-digits.
So I think that’s encouraging.
That creates a little bit of negative mix just because if the incremental sales of consumables is at higher margins.
So I think you will see continued very good margin performance and expansion in the segment.
Thanks Dan and just lastly on the CapEx I think you talked before about low mid single-digit CapEx increase this year Q1 was up lot more than that.
Do you change the full year or it was just (inaudible) Well it’s coming up in part because of increased placement at Beckman because of our leasing model.
That shows up in CapEx.
So some of the increase in CapEx is less traditional PPV it’s actually expanding our installed base at Beckman which is obviously a good sign for the business.
Great thank you very much.
Thanks Julian.
Ladies and gentlemen we will take our final question today from Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning Brandon.
Larry could you elaborate on what you saw from an order perspective at Beckman understanding weather and one less selling day were headwinds but given your comments about win rates in the U.S.
when do you think that we see that translate into a core revenue inflection in the Beckman diagnostics unit? Well I think that we did a bit better from a bookings perspective and again better in bookings than we did in shipments.
But the trend through the quarter was positive for us in that regard primarily with consumables but that North American equipment comment that we made we think it’s significant because it’s really the combination of so much of the work the team has done the last several years.
As you know it will take a while to get those orders converted into new boxes on the floor and in turn see that consumable stream.
But we think that as we move forward sequentially through the course of the year that we will see a pick up as a result of those as increased wins here in North America done unlike what we are sitting already in terms of early benefits from the return of the component to our whole suite of analyzers.
So it will be gradual I wish it was more rapid but we will take the early indicators here of progress and then we can build on the print through the course of 2014.
And then just one for Dan operating cash flow is a little soft even excluding the discrete factors from last year.
What’s your operating cash balance for the year and how quickly would you expect the timing dynamics from the first quarter to normalize? I think you are seeing on an improvement here in Q2 as Larry alluded to given the stronger shipments in March relative to the first few months that hurt us a little bit from a timing perspective on CapEx but I think that will shortly reverse itself.
Okay thank you.
Thanks Brandon.
Okay thanks everybody.
We are around all the day for you to take follow-ups.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today’s conference.
My name is Tina and I will be your conference facilitator today.
This call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Matt Gugino Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Gugino please begin your conference.
Thank you Tina.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Larry Culp our President and Chief Executive Officer and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I’d like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today’s call our second quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investor section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information-Quarterly Earnings that will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investor section of our Web site later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until July 24 2014.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the confirmation code is 3625375.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
The supplemental materials and our second quarter Form 10-Q describe additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Unless otherwise noted all references in these remarks and supplemental materials to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate to the second quarter of 2014 and relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's businesses and all references to period-to-period increases or decreases in the financial metrics are year-over-year.
During the call we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings and actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Larry.
Matt thanks.
And good morning everyone.
Our team executed well in a modest growth environment in the second quarter.
Revenues increased 3% and were largely consistent with what we have seen over the last 12 months.
Geographically high growth markets led the way again as we saw continued strength in China and Latin America.
The developed markets were up low single-digits with growth in the U.S.
as anticipated and Western Europe slightly below our expectations.
During the quarter the Danaher business system helped many of our businesses accelerate new product introductions and enhance our sales and marketing teams’ effectiveness.
These efforts combined with go-to-market initiatives in high growth markets drove share gains of Hach ChemTreat Implant Direct Leica Biosystems AB SCIEX and Radiometer.
On the capital allocation front we’ve been encouraged by the increase in our acquisition activity.
Since the beginning of April we’ve announced or closed 10 acquisitions totaling over $1 billion including four deals greater than $100 million each.
These acquisitions will strengthen our existing businesses in the Environmental Dental and Life Sciences and Diagnostics segments.
Just last night as many of you may have seen we announced Beckman Coulter’s pending acquisition of Siemens clinical microbiology business a leader in automated diagnostic solutions that help healthcare providers identify infection causing bacteria and determine the best course treatment.
This transaction is our largest in over two years.
With our robust balance sheet and a healthy acquisition funnel we remain confident in our ability to deploy our more than $8 billion of M&amp;A capacity.
So with that in the backdrop let me move to the details of the quarter.
Today we reported another record second-quarter for Danaher.
Diluted net earnings per share were up 9% to $0.95.
Revenues grew 5% to $5 billion while core revenues were up 3%.
The impact of acquisitions increased revenues by 1.5% while currency translation had a positive impact of 0.5%.
Our second-quarter gross margin expanded to an all-time high of 52.8%.
With this increase in gross profit and our continued G&amp;A leverage we were able to boost or investments in sales and marketing and R&amp;D by approximately $85 million while improving core operating margins by 45 basis points.
DBS helped us deliver strong cash flow performance.
Our operating cash flow was $1 billion and free cash was $844 million.
Our free cash flow to net income conversion ratio for the quarter was 125%.
Turning to the five operating segments Test and Measurement revenues were flat while core revenues declined 2%.
Reported operating margin contracted 250 basis points to 18.4% and core operating margin decreased 155 basis points primarily due to the decline in our high gross margin communications platform.
Our Instruments platform core revenues were flat for the quarter.
At Fluke core revenues increased at a low single-digit rate marking the third consecutive quarter of positive core growth for the team.
Orders grew mid-single digits with solid point of sale demand in North America and China.
During the quarter we launched Fluke Connect a collection of 40 wireless enabled test tools that allow technicians to analyze share and store data online and in the cloud.
We also introduced several new tomography products including the Ti90 and 95 thermal imagers.
These imagers feature higher resolution than other entry level models and come standard with Fluke Connect.
Orders for both Fluke Connect and the Ti90 and 95 imagers have already exceeded our expectations.
Tektronix core revenues declined low single digits as modest growth in the U.S.
military and government sales was offset by weak demand for our video products and a decline in technology spending in Asia.
We were encouraged however by our order growth during the quarter which was positive for the first time since 2011.
Core revenues in our Communications platform decreased at a low double-digit rate as a decline in network monitoring more than offset growth in network security solutions and installation tools.
As expected our network monitoring business was adversely affected by delays in wireless carrier spending which we now believe will also result in negative growth for the platform for the rest of the year.
At Arbor demand for our network security solutions remain strong with orders increasing more than 20%.
Arbor is recognized as the leading security solutions vendor among both enterprise and service providers and was named best overall IT company in the 2014 Hot Companies and Best Products awards in June.
Environmental revenues increased 6% with core revenues up 3.5%.
Core operating margin expanded 40 basis points while reported operating margin decreased 60 basis points to 21% primarily due to the dilutive effect of recent acquisitions.
Our Water Quality platform core revenues grew at a mid-single-digit rate led by strong demand for our analytical instruments and chemical treatment solutions.
Hach had another solid quarter with high single-digit growth in China and healthy municipal spending in both the U.S.
and Europe.
Hach’s investment in digital marketing and online distribution hit a major milestone this quarter as our U.S.
Web site generated $1 million in weekly sales for the first time ever.
At ChemTreat we saw robust demand for our chemical solutions in both North America and Latin America.
You may recall from our Analyst meeting in December that ChemTreat is focused on expanding in Latin America and has increased sales and in the region four fold over the last four years.
During the quarter ChemTreat acquired Chile based Aquasin [ph] a leader in industrial water treatment instruments and services which will further accelerate our growth by expanding our localized product offerings in South America.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root’s core revenues grew low single digits led by healthy demand for vapor recovery products in China and point of sale solutions globally.
Also contributing to the strength was Insite360 our cloud-based platform that allows retailers to remotely control there retail automation and environmental monitoring systems across multiple sites from any PC or mobile device in real-time.
Customer reception has exceeded our expectations with more than 100 retailers adopting Insite360 in June alone.
During the quarter GVR completed the acquisition of ANGI Energy Systems an innovator in compressed natural gas fuelling design and engineering.
Compressed natural gas alternative energy solutions are being rapidly adopted particularly in the truck stop market and we believe ANGI will be able to take advantage of Gilbarco Veeder-Root's leading presence in that space.
In Life Sciences and Diagnostics we had an excellent quarter with top line growth in operating margin expansion.
Revenues for the quarter were up 7% while core revenues grew 5%.
We also increased our investments in sales and marketing and R&amp;D nearly 10% while still expanding operating margins by 145 basis points.
The Diagnostics platform continued its solid performance with mid-single digit core revenue growth.
At Beckman Coulter core sales grew at a mid-single digit rate with double digit growth in immunoassay annual analysis.
Geographically high growth market demand remained strong led by mid-teens growth in China while the developed markets grew at a low single digit rate.
Importantly the U.S.
was up low single digits marking our first quarter of growth in the U.S.
since the acquisition.
We believe our higher customer win and retention rates in the U.S.
and around the globe are the results of our team’s dedication to regulatory compliance better service reliable quality and on-time delivery.
The team has also made significant progress driving efficiencies improving operating margin by over 150 basis points year-over-year to their highest level since the acquisition.
Additionally Beckman Coulters first made their bolt-on acquisition IRIS which closed in October 2012 delivering double digit growth and expanding operating margins over 1000 basis points in the quarter.
So we’re very excited last night to announce Beckman’s second sizable bolt-on acquisition of Siemens’ clinical microbiology business.
Siemens microbiology produces highly accurate automated instruments and consumables that help hospital and research laboratories identify infection causing bacteria and determine appropriate antibiotic treatments.
Notably these solutions are capable of detecting the bacteria’s resistance to specific drugs helping doctors to proactively plan the best treatments with their patients.
With over $200 million in revenue this acquisition represents an attractive opportunity for Beckman and the rest of the diagnostics platform and we will spend our already strong presence in both hospitals and reference labs.
We believe the Danaher business system will help Siemens microbiology enhance its workflow automation solutions and develop go-to-market collaboration strategies with our other Diagnostics businesses.
This acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions including regulatory approvals and is expected to close in early 2015.
Radiometer’s core revenues grew high single digits with growth in all major product lines and Q2 sales were particularly strong increasing over 40% in the quarter.
At the EPG conference in May we highlighted the many ways in which our platforms harness their scale to enhance growth and augment individual operating company strengths.
Within Diagnostics we have seen terrific results from this collaboration as Radiometer utilized Beckman Coulters commercial capability in Turkey South America and United Kingdom to secure large project orders.
At Leica Biosystems sales increased at mid-single digit rates led by high teen’s growth in the high growth markets.
Advanced staining grew mid-single digits as our increasing install base of BOND instruments grow solid consumables growth.
Aperio our ePathology business grew double digits as doctors increasing look to provide more accurate more secure cancer diagnostics for their patients.
Our digital work flow solutions facilitate global collaboration between doctors and other experts simplifying the process of developing precise diagnosis and treatment plans.
Our Life Sciences platform core revenues increased at a mid-single digit rate.
AB SCIEX core revenues were up high single digits driven by strength in the academic and applied markets in both North America and Europe.
We believe our investments in new products have helped increase our market share over the past several quarters.
At the American Society of Mass Spectrometry meeting in June we launched several innovative new products including the TripleTOF 6600 and the 3500 Triple Quad.
The 6600 enables scientists to obtain results 10 times faster than traditional methods.
In combination with our SWATH Acquisition 2.0 software it is the only system on the market that provides a complete workflow solution for proteomics research.
The 3500 is an easy to solution that provides laboratory a reliable and accurate way to insure food safety and environmental compliance.
With the introduction of these products we were able to meet the needs of researchers across a broader spectrum of disciplines experience levels and price points.
Leica Microsystems core revenues grew up low single digits with strength in North America Western Europe and Latin America.
Sales of our Confocal microscopy products increased over 20% in the quarter led by robust demand for our flagship SPA product line.
Turning to Dental segment revenues grew 2.5% with core revenues up 2%.
Core operating margin declined 55 basis points while reported operating margin decreased 50 basis points to 14.8% due to both weak consumable sales and our continued investments in new product development and commercialization in high growth markets.
During the first half of the year our core operating margin in Dental increased 50 basis points.
Over the last decade our Dental platform has evolved from a collection of individual business to a unified group of market leading equipment consumables and specialty brands.
At last month’s Analyst Day in California the team did an outstanding job highlighting that evolution as well KaVo Kerr Group’s unique position within the Dental industry and how we use DBS to drive growth and innovation.
For those of you unable to participate I encourage you to watch the replay which is available on our website.
Dental consumables core revenues grew low single digits as robust growth in our implant business augmented modest increases in our other businesses.
During the quarter we acquired Ducks a leading -- a leader in restorative and infection control consumables.
Ducks nicely complements Kerr’s portfolio and broadens our range of offerings to general practitioners dental specialists and hygienists.
We also expanded our presence in high growth markets with the acquisition of Reinor Orto one of Ormco's longstanding South African distributors.
Dental technologies core revenues increased low single digits driven by a healthy demand in high growth markets particularly China which grew more than 25%.
Our expansive of range of imaging products delivered excellent results growing mid-single digit in the quarter.
Notably our focus on innovation in imaging has helped us build a growing install base of more than 6 000 3D imaging units.
In addition at our Analyst Day we discussed publically for the first time another element of our digital dentistry roadmap our chairside computer aided design and milling solution.
This digital system will enable dentists to custom design and manufacture crowns fillings and custom implant abutments in their offices in just minutes significantly reducing the amount of doctor time and patient office visits required to complete a dental prosthetic procedure.
This is a great example of how the KaVo Kerr Group works together to meet customer needs as it will use Ormco’s Lythos digital impression system i-CAT’s treatment planning software and KaVo’s ARCTICA milling machine.
Turning to Industrial Technologies revenues increased 5.5% while core revenues were up 3.5%.
Core operating margin expanded 45 basis points while reported operating margin increased 30 basis points to 23.8%.
Motion platform core revenues increased at a low single digit rate led by project wins in the high growth markets.
This marks the first quarter of growth for the platform since the fourth quarter 2012.
With our transition out of lower margin businesses largely complete motion is now more profitable and better positioned for future growth.
Core revenues of our Product Identification platform were up low single digits as solid growth in our inline variable printing and packaging solutions globally was partially offset by a decline in our laser marking business.
Videojet grew to mid-single digit rate led by healthy demand for equipment and consumables in Europe and the high growth markets.
During the quarter we expanded our coding applications offerings with the launch of the 9550 print and apply labeler.
This product’s breakthrough design controls a label from printing to placement eliminating everyday operational problems such as label jams mechanical adjustments worn out parts and failure points.
Esko continues to strengthen its leading position in packaging and workflow solutions with sales increasing mid-single digits.
In May Procter &amp; Gamble chose Esko as an official strategic partner to provide hosting and implementation of our Automation Engine and WebCenter solutions.
Automation Engine and WebCenter combine to provide a powerful web based platform that helps brand owners and print professionals manage all aspects of the packaging design workflow.
Also during the quarter we hosted the highly successful EskoWorld’s Conference where over 400 customers participated in 70 workshops on topics ranging from brand management to 3D package design.
So to wrap up our team executed well in a modest growth environment delivering top line performance consistent with the past four quarters.
The Danaher Business System continues to help us as we invest in growth drive share gains expand margins and improve free cash flow.
We believe our robust balance sheet continued focus on organic growth opportunities and confidence on the acquisition front will drive solid performance in the second half of 2014 and beyond.
So today we are initiating third quarter GAAP diluted net earnings per share guidance of $0.86 to $0.89 which assumes core growth comparable with the growth rate seen in the first half of 2014.
We are also narrowing our GAAP diluted net earnings per share guidance for the full year to $3.67 to $3.72 from the previous range of $3.60 to $3.75.
Thanks Larry.
That concludes our formal comments.
Tina we’re now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
We will take our first one from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Trying to get my arms around the margin numbers and you mentioned dilution from deals a number of times.
But it didn’t seem like there is a lot of deals –or at least there is a few -- I mean at least material deals.
I guess my question is why weren’t the restructuring actions of kind of a year ago plus DBS and such able to offset the dilution from the deals and maybe just some granularity into when you think about the margin movement what part of that was deal dilution and what part of it was mix or anything else that might have impacted? Scott I would say that on balance we were actually pretty pleased with the performance in light of the volume.
As you see here with core up at 3% it camouflages a little bit some of the stronger performance we saw in three of the five segments and we had some real standout businesses with water certainly diagnostics very pleased with Beckman Life Sciences’ Videojet.
It’s a pretty healthy list there.
And I think on balance having three to five segments up 40 basis points in terms of the operating margin expansion and particularly with LSD Life Sciences and Diagnostics up nearly 150 basis points a lot to attribute there to DBS the restructuring you alluded to and the like.
I think the long and the short of it is is we’ve kind of looked at it and I don’t mean to suggest we’re in any way content here.
We had two businesses with high variable margins that finished softly more softly than we would have anticipated there in June.
We saw some softness in the U.S.
in dental consumables sellout that in turn impacted our June there at Kerr particularly.
But mainly and the big issue is it -- Tektronix Communications the big carriers were soft here in the quarter far softer than we thought.
And we have particularly high variable margins there.
Now fortunately Arbor and Fluke Networks our security and enterprise businesses were actually pretty good in the quarter but it was really isolated in that regard.
And when we have that sort of revenue with those sorts of margins breaking away from us late in the game it doesn’t help on the top but it really does for the bottom all in.
And Scott just regarding the acquisition we talked last year we had about $100 million of restructuring spend generating about $20 million a quarter of savings or we had $20 million -- approximately $20 million of acquisition expense in the quarter.
A lot of that's non-cash.
You’ve seen an increase in the number of deals and from a GAAP perspective not from a cash flow perspective we’re feeling the impact of that on the margin.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
And then as a follow-up and you think about 3Q guidance I’m not surprised you’re being conservative but at the same notion when you think about Life Sciences and Diagnostics being kind of back in the game core growth 5% good and that seems I’m guessing that's somewhat sustainable for the rest of this year and then you made some positive comments about the order rates particularly in Fluke and your comps are still pretty easy next quarter.
Why wouldn’t the core growth accelerate sequentially from here? Well I think that as we look at the third I think both from a geographic perspective Scott and from a segment or platform perspective what we saw in the second right now was probably what we’re going to see in the third which is why we’re kind of embracing that first half core performance as a good guide here for the third.
From a geographic perspective we saw a little bit of a tail in June tail-off in June.
I would say that was modest but it was broad-based.
So we’ve got a watchful eye there.
Clearly the U.S.
there’s a bit of an offset there both in terms of what we saw -- I think some of macro data out there.
But net-net the developed markets are probably where they’ve been.
I think some of our team are probably a bit optimistic in the high growth markets as we go into the third quarter.
Brazil’s got some of the noise relative to the World Cup behind it the Indian Election all of that.
I don’t think we’re banking a lot on any sort of uptick there.
I don’t know if that's conservative I suspect that's just being pragmatic.
So we get that core there in line with the first half.
We get similar margin performance in part because the Tek Comms dynamic is going to be with us through the second half.
It’s probably going to cost us a couple of pennies a quarter as they are resolved.
We will work hard to offset that.
We’re not happy with it but it is what it is.
And I think when you put all that together you get the formal guide that we’re offering this morning.
We’ll take our next question from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
So just obviously homing in on the test and measurement weakness and it’s been weak in sort of third year [ph] of (indiscernible) growth and I’m just wondering Larry can you gave some perspective on how much of this is structural and how much confidence do you have that these businesses can return to an acceptable growth going forward? Yes.
I think you have to break it down by business Nigel.
And I realize at a high level may be some of the details don’t matter so much.
But at the operating level I think we’re very encouraged by what we’re seeing at Fluke.
Three quarters in a row here of growth is certainly something we can all I think appreciate.
I think what we’re particularly encouraged by is the combination of the new products and Fluke Connect I think is a game changer for them but also the improved commercial execution around the world.
I’m not sure that Fluke’s ever going to be our highest growth business but can they be a consistent low to mid-single digit grower for us? More so than we have seen in the last couple of years I believe so and I think they are building momentum here very much in that direction.
I think Tek as we’ve talked many times has a different end-market set of drivers there.
Technology spending broadly including spending on the bench has been muted the last several years far more than we would have anticipated.
But there again I think the order books are firming up having first positive quarter in years there.
Hopefully it’s the beginning of a trend.
I think Fluke will in all likelihood outperform Tek in the near to medium-term.
And that’s I think is straight as we can call it.
I think within Comms we’ve been very fortunate to be part of the mobile network build out at Tek Comms.
It’s been a what a mid to high single-digit grower for us double-digits in many quarter and what we are seeing right now is a delay broadly with a number of those same customers which we think is more timing than anything else.
But it’s clearly going to put pressure on us as it did in the second quarter and in second half and I think we continue to be bullish about that business long-term.
And it’s a business that’s well complemented at the platform level by both what we do a security with Arbor and what Fluke Networks does with the enterprise customers.
So three different stories if you will I think on balance still good ones but we need to build on the momentum at Fluke and Tek to have a better second half to help offset some of this pressure we know we are going to see in Tek Comms particularly in the second half.
Okay good.
That’s very helpful Larry.
And just to clarify the -- you talked about very clearly about the pressure in the -- demand trend is going to keep Comms negative for the backlog for the year just want to clarify that with Comms not be wide at T&amp;M segments? That’s correct and we expect to -- our Comms platform which was down double-digit in the second quarter can be down high single-digits double-digit.
In the second quarter we expect instruments to get a little better so we don’t -- we printed down a couple of points here.
I think we will do a little bit better than that but probably not much.
We will take our next question from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Just on the third quarter guidance.
Is there something that’s getting unusually kind of weaker there? I mean is there anything other than the kind of the tail-offs and maybe in June you said it was kind of broad-based? Maybe if you could just put a little more color around that tail-offs.
Because I mean if I am doing the low-end of the range it gets you actually below 24% other year modestly below that I mean I haven’t seen that from you guys in the last couple of years.
I think so just a straight map on the seasonality would suggest something that’s a few times higher than what you guys have put out there.
So is there something seasonally even adjusted for the $0.02 from this quarter? Is something seasonally there that is weaker than expected? Well Steve one of the things impacting the guidance in Q3 is the $1 billion of acquisitions that we have announced to close in the last four months.
As you know when we did the SCIEX deal which was about that size we called that all the one-time stuff which was pretty significant when it got to a $1 billion.
We’re not doing that here.
So part of the reason we’re taking down the high-end of our guidance is we are going to have a fair amount of acquisition knowing a lot of it is non-cash as a result of these five larger deals over the last three months.
That’s impacting and we had a little bit of that in Q2 but given these deals have just closed -- in the case of Siemens we are likely not going to close that until the first quarter but given it is a carve out transaction Declan is actually going to have to spend a fair amount of money in the second half year to get ready to -- from a systems point of view to bring that business in.
We think it’s a very attractive high return acquisition opportunity but it’s going to hurt us a little bit from a GAAP EPS perspective over the next couple of quarters.
How much would that type of spending be? Well Declan is going to cost them -- it’s going to cost the Life Science and Diagnostics half a cent to a penny in the second half.
Add to that the other -- the deal cost the inventory step-up from the other deal the other 250 million of revenues that are coming onboard here we’re going to have $0.03 or $0.04 of additional dilution here that -- again a lot of it is non-cash but GAAP dilution in the second half.
Just at a higher level I guess do you know you guys are going to be at 3% to 3.5% organic for the year that’s above the mid-point of the annual range yet you are kind of guiding at the mid-point.
We are talking about some acquisition dilution.
There is I guess spending to get ready for an acquisition.
Again I just feel like in the past you guys have kind of blown through all this stuff.
There would be may be some left over scraps from restructuring or some other leverage to pull.
I also now recall this kind of lumpy mix creating somewhat of a visibility problem perhaps.
I mean does this go to just the more complex nature of your portfolio and where the margins are today relative to maybe four or five years ago I mean this just feels a little bit different than what you guys used to kind of blow through in the past? Steve I appreciate the question but the way I would respond to it is that Danaher that you know is the Danaher you got today.
And we had a situation in the second quarter that's going to perpetuate itself in the second half.
We are business that has been on a literal care for a long time it’s not going to contribute to the top-line.
It’s not that big of a deal but Tek Comms has been a real contributor to us.
But here for the next several quarters we’re going to miss that revenue but we’re really going to miss the variable fall through there.
And if that wasn’t going on particularly to the level that we have seen and now we anticipate we wouldn’t be talking about any of this quite honestly.
So I think it’s isolated not happy about it but it is what it is.
But when you look more broadly across the corporation there are so many good things going on from a segment from a platform from a geographic perspective that we’re not going to lose too much sleep here because we’re building a business for the long-term we feel as confident and as consecutive about that as we ever have.
We’ll take our next question from Steven Winoker of Sanford Bernstein.
So just I want to go back to Nigel’s question on Tek and specifically on Tektronix not on the communications business.
So I think this is the 11th quarter of negative growth you have talked about order growth turning positive finally here after a very long period of time.
But I guess I’d still at a more granular level trying to get the sense for what’s structural versus what’s cyclical here.
In your sense when you dive into the different pieces video et cetera and you analyze the business what gives you a comfort level that actually this is still the good market overtime and that we’re just in the cyclical kind of trough? Well Steve when you talk about 11 quarters right that can be a fine line to draw but I think we continue to be optimistic about Tek and its market.
Again I think we’ve seen well what we haven’t seen is that bounce back in bench spending that is typically followed every major downturn that we studied in the history of the Company.
Things have been grinding here for a while.
I think we see that on the part of the global technology customers that we serve really without too many exceptions by vertical and by geography.
So our task and our challenge is to innovate as best we can and in the face of that execute as well as we can from a delivery from a service perspective in the field to drive a sort of new order growth which will lead to shipment growth in time.
So I don’t want to blame it all on the market we certainly gotten better at Tek over the last several years and what we can control.
And I think that combination is what fuels that optimism.
But you don’t hear spending in the table because we need to prove it to you with real results on a sustained basis.
And is this a place a particular segment that you would continue to seek to deploy capital externally? I think the Tek’s team at Tektronix their primary focal focus here Steve is to grow the business organically.
Okay.
And just maybe as a follow-up maybe on that 150 basis point decline core and you mentioned the high variable margin on the communications side driving most of that but can you give me some sense as is all that operating leverage or I’m just trying to break out what went well in test and measurement versus what was really just a function of the volume? Instruments OP were relatively flat.
OP dollars were flat with core growth that was also flat so there were obviously do some things on the cost side to overcome sort of in inflation and others but all the OP decline and all the margin hit was not from the comp side and that is of our equipment business that's our highest variable margin business.
We’ll take our next question from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
I just wanted to [indiscernible]… Julian are you there? Operator we can’t hear Julian.
One moment we’ll take a question from Jeff Sprague Vertical Research Partners.
Hey just a couple of quick ones does your guide for 2014 assume the Q4 restructuring in the ballpark of what you did last year I think maybe you were talking 80ish before relative to the 100 as kind of a ballpark idea? Jeff we are going through our planning process now we would expect to have restructuring in the fourth quarter.
We haven’t pinned down a number yet.
And then I know you haven’t been a fan of programmatic share repurchase but what's your thought process on opportunistic share repurchase? I think that’s a word we’ve used with some frequency over the years to describe our philosophy with respect to buybacks.
And then just thinking about deal valuations I mean we see what seems as -- what’s kind of ballpark valuation on the other stuff that you’re currently buying? Jeff so we brought in roughly if you look at kind of 2015 just run rate we brought in about a $0.5 billion of revenues over the last four months not all that close but either signed or announced.
And we paid approximately a $1 billion all with one exception which is more of a start-up all profitable businesses so pretty good I’d say overall EBITDA sort of multiples and situations where we on a deal-by-deal expect to get to a -- exceed a 10% return within three years so I feel pretty good.
And we’ve done five deals here between 90 million and 500 million in the last five over the last three months and feel pretty good about the valuations as well.
Do you think something is actually changed or is this kind of the random walk of deals where your there’s nothing and then there’s something and you can’t time them or do you have some confidence that things are actually picking up on the M&amp;A front? Again in kind of what we have seen in sort of the mid-size deals each 100 to a billion dollar type transactions we’re pretty encouraged by the quality that not only the number of situation but obviously along these lines of this five situations where all things are cheap we can get deals done under our return parameters.
I think we’re still having active conversations on the larger opportunities as well I think there is a net-net and an encouraging sign here but until we pull something bigger down don’t want to sort of declare any victory.
Jeff what I think stands out for me to build on what Dan both in terms of what we’ve announced here and what we think and how we think about the funnels it is really the breath of these dynamics.
If it was in one space it might be a bit more of a random walk but it is undercurrent is broad-based I think that’s a good sign and part of the confidence and a conviction we’re reiterating this morning on the M&amp;A front.
Thanks.
And just finally from me on this June stay is that a U.S.
comment? No.
Is that a global comment? Jeff really we were referring to Western Europe.
That was one geography that was if you rolled up our -- everybody came in line with what we thought at the beginning of the quarter.
Western Europe was slightly below what we thought at the beginning of the quarter and that was most pronounced it wasn’t terrible but it was most pronounced in June a little bit of a tail-off there.
We’ll take our next question from Julian Mitchell Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Just on the equipment versus consumables mix I think you’d called out in Q1 that equipment sales were up 3.5% the best in a very long time.
How did that play out in Q2? The it was more or less in line Julian with what we have seen consumables broadly were good I they led the way.
Unfortunately we had a little bit of a lag there in equipment but it wasn’t broad-based again it kind of comes back to the issue with the -- we flagged earlier around communications with Tek Comms being so soft that was really the major break on the equipment trend that we have seen the last several quarters otherwise the general mix was very much in line with what we’ve seen fortunately.
Got it.
And then within just a follow-up on Western Europe you talked about the slowdown there in June I guess it seems like it’s very very short-term so it’s maybe hard to read too much into it but I guess is your sense that it’s more that the you had expected that to accelerate as we went through the year and it’s just hit kind of a ceiling on growth or was there actually some softness on order intake below sort of what you’d thought? Julian it was a we had good growth in context.
It just down ticked broadly versus our expectations in that quarter.
So I don’t think we’re going to try to extrapolate that too far here too soon but it is something we’re watching carefully as we start the second half here.
Again in part because of it seemed to be broadly based as opposed to the U.S.
which was strong and where we saw softness at Tek Comms and consumables that was particularly isolated.
Got it.
And then lastly very quickly environmentally you talked about weakness in U.S.
municipal spend continuing looking at sort of local government’s finances those have been improving in terms of tax receipts and so on for 18 months now when do you think that will start to feed through? Maybe we didn’t get that right in the script.
Actually our muni spend and which has begun to bounce back in Europe and has continued bounce back in the second quarter in U.S.
so [indiscernible] had good muni spend in the U.S.
in the second quarter.
We will take our next question from Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs On Tek Comms I just wanted may be one more question on that.
Talk a little bit about the product specific trends there and the reason I ask is I think in the past we have talked a little bit about the secular shift towards software and you guys were taking some steps with Arbor Networks.
So I am just wondering if there is an element of product innovation there that is factoring into your demand profile and what -- well can you shed light on there relative to yourselves as well as the competition? Yes I think as we look at those dynamics I think we are really talking about specific customers specific programs and the time they are in and that’s where we enter the quarter thinking that the rest of the year was going to play out in one way.
At this point it’s going to play out in other way and again not a way that is necessarily helpful for us.
But these are long-term relationships we feel good about the value that we provide the function that Tek Comms provides to these mobile operators.
So we are going to take the long view and continue to invest in and persevere though it clearly put some pressure on the margins in the near-term.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up question on the healthcare side of the business specifically Beckman you guys saw the mid-single digit growth.
I am wondering if you could talk a little bit your view on the sales funnel for that business just given the uncertainty with hospital capital budgets around ACA.
And as a corollary to that the Siemens business that you acquired is I think about microbiology the secular trends there are okay but not great.
So we are just trying to get a sense of your plan to create growth and maybe grow faster in the end-markets in that business? Sure.
You really have to like a Beckman headline number here in terms of the core and particularly that turn in the U.S.
I think the funnels are healthy but again the funnels are healthy because of the underlying actions the team has really been hard at work and progressing over the last several years.
So when you look at those funnels and more importantly the retention wins rates that come as a function of those funnels we couldn’t be happier.
And in turn and then to see those revenues come into the business because as you know Isaac we can see 6 sometimes a 12 month lag from the time our customer makes a decision before we can recognize that revenue.
I think that the microbiology lab is a good or the micro bio space is a good space.
It’s not a space that we’ve been in.
And frankly we’ll take a mid-single growth business with the platform that we will get from Siemens and do there I think what we’ve done like in bio in radiometer more recently with the Irish business in urinalysis and really work hard to turbo charge that business.
And I think you’ve seen us do that from an innovation perspective I think you’ve seen us do that with respect to the some of the go to market fundamentals.
And that in concert with the synergies we should get from the rest of the diagnostics platform is really the high level game plan that we have for this business ones we get it into Danaher.
As Dan alluded to a few minutes ago it can take a little while as carve outs is not the cleanest integration that we’re going to see.
But frankly given the degree of difficulty at both SCIEX and at Beckman Coulter in the team’s subsequent success we feel pretty confident they are going to knock this one down in the end.
And our next question is from Andrew Obin Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I guess I have just a question on cash flow.
If I look last year cash flow was relatively flat versus the previous year and I understand why.
But it also seems that year-to-date free cash flow once again is relatively flat versus a year ago.
And as a company that sort of we look again cash flow basis A what’s going on? If there is anything wrong and if it’s just timing and if it’s just timing should we expect a pick-up in free cash flow in the second half? Andrew it’s Dan you are right our year-to-date free cash flow is relatively flat.
But as you remember in the first quarter our year-on-year cash flow was down a fair amount.
We thought that was timing we thought that we’d catch up to about last sport by the mid-year.
That occurred I think it’s trending well and generated almost 850 million of cash in the quarter versus less than 400 million in the first quarter.
I expect that positive trend to continue.
Terrific and any more color just from printing ID on the short cycle business anything stems out on a positive and negative side to you in the quarter? Within the product ID Andrew? Yes product ID yes.
I think the Videojet team continues to lead the way they are up mid singles.
If you look at the last four -- if you look at the last eight quarters I think we are very pleased both on an absolute and on a relative basis with respect to what Videojet and company are doing.
I think Esko slowed down a little bit here but has been a very strong performer for us as well and the noisome that we shared with you relative to Procter &amp; Gamble I think it’s important as we continue to digitize these packaging design workflow solutions on the Web that really are the major growth drivers for Esko.
So I think all-in-all we are pleased with where those businesses are today.
But from a macro standpoint no particular segment or geography really stood out?  Not really.
And we have a -- our next question from Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Larry in Life Sciences back on your comments around strength in the academic market at AB SCIEX to be clear have seen an uptick in the market or that more of a function of better execution in AB SCIEX specifically? I think we are feeling good about the execution there but it’s probably frankly a combination that is hard to titrate out one versus the other.
Okay then with respect to the Siemens Microbiology DL can you give us a sense of how do you see the competitive landscape evolving in that ID/AST arena particularly around NASPEC and other emerging direct from blood technologies.
Can you leverage AB SCIEX to launch their own NASPEC based solution in that market? As you know it’s a complex landscape not only in terms of some of the strong and outstanding competitors that we have there but also the competing and evolving technologies.
I think our view particularly with the spectrum aspect is that what we get with Siemens is quite complementary to what happens with NASPEC.
We don’t provide the product today from SCIEX I am sure you know.
I think over time we need to be careful with how many fronts AB SCIEX takes on because we are seeing broad potential application in NASPEC technologies.
We don’t want SCIEX to try to be at all things to all the people so there will be situations where we have relationships with others that were we may compete in one space and collaborator cooperate in others.
And I think that’s very much the creativity and the nimbleness that we are going to need the SCIEX team and the Beckman team is well here to embrace and engage as we go forward.
We will take our final question from Deane Dray with Citi.
Thank you.
Just a quick clarification on the guidance for the third quarter what was very helpful was when Dan added that there was going to be $0.03 or $0.04 of deal dilution in the second half and I think he said on top of that its half a penny to a penny in the integration cost you will have to do for the Siemens Microbiology.
So that’s $0.04 or $0.05 for the second half.
How much of that is reflected in the third quarter guidance? It’s probably -- it’s about a $0.02 impact in the third quarter and probably a comparable impact in Q4.
So pretty linear and is it split between what non-cash and cash? It’ll be more non-cash.
There will be some cash because of the Beckman integration but I don’t have any more.
I don’t have the exact breakdown of that.
This concludes today’s question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Gugino at this time I will turn the conference back over to you for closing remarks.
Thank you.
That concludes our formal remarks and Q&amp;A we are around all day for questions.
This does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
My name is Debby and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
I will now turn the conference over to Mr.
Matt Gugino Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Gugino please begin your conference.
Thanks Debby.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Tom Joyce our President and Chief Executive Officer and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I’d like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today’s call our third quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investor section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information-Quarterly Earnings and will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investor section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until October 23 2014.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 in the U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the confirmation code is 9389793.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the supplemental materials and our third quarter Form 10-Q for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Unless otherwise noted all references in these remarks and accompanying presentation to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate to the third quarter of 2014 and relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's businesses and all references to period-to-period increases or decreases in the financial metrics are year-over-year.
I would also like to note that we are making some statements during the call that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
It is possible that actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
We are pleased with the quarterly results we announced this morning.
Earnings came in above our expectations thanks to the Danaher teams’ very strong execution.
Danaher Business System continues to drive superior margin expansion increase cash flow and healthy top line performance in a modest growth environment.
The investments we’ve made in innovation and expansion in high growth markets drove share gains in many of our operating companies.
Fluke Hach Veeder-Root Radiometer AB Sciex Implant Direct and Esko are among the businesses that we believe outperformed relative to their markets during the quarter.
These share gains and the teams’ execution also helped drive more than 85 basis points of core operating margin improvement in four of our five segments.
Our cash flow performance is also very good resulting in free cash flow to net income conversion ratio of a 128%.
We are encouraged by our increased M&amp;A activity of late as we’ve announced $3.3 billion of deals across our portfolio in the first nine months of the year.
These acquisition will strengthen our dental life science and diagnostics environmental and Test &amp; Measurement segments.
Cultivation funnels across our portfolio remained full giving us confidence in our ability to deploy our substantial M&amp;A capacity in a strategic and disciplined way.
So with that as a backdrop let’s get in to the details of the quarter.
This morning we reported diluted net earnings per share of $0.95 up 13% and representing another record third quarter for Danaher.
Revenues grew 4.5% to 4.9 billion with core revenues up 3%.
The positive impact of acquisitions increased revenues by 2% while currency translation reduced revenues by 50 basis points.
Geographically high growth markets led the way increasing high single digits.
Despite the headlines in China our businesses grew double digit led by our T&amp;M Instruments Gilbarco Veeder-Root Diagnostics and Dental platforms.
Developed markets remained relatively stable and the US and Western Europe both grew low single digits.
Our gross margin expanded 80 basis points or approximately a $140 million to 52.7%.
This increase in gross profit enabled us to increase our sales and marketing and R&amp;D by nearly 60 million in the quarter and deliver 70 basis points of core operating margin expansion.
Turning to our five operating segments Test and measurement revenues increased 1.5% while core revenues decreased 1% primarily due to a decline in our communications platform.
Reported operating margin declined a 170 basis points while core operating margins decreased a 115 basis points.
On Monday you saw that we announced an agreement to combine our communications business with NetScout Systems to create a premier global provider of network management solutions for both carrier and enterprise customers.
We are excited about this transaction which is the culmination of a multi-year discussion with NetScout about working together.
This is a powerful opportunity to combine highly complementary businesses in a transaction that we believe will benefit all Danaher and NetScout stakeholders associates shareholders and customers alike.
Danaher’s premier troubleshooting cyber security and engineering solutions combined with NetScout’s high performance monitoring technologies will give customers access to the most expansive suites of best-in-class product in the industry.
The combined company will offer even greater breadth and depth across both carrier and enterprise networks expanding opportunity through innovation and growth and improving our customers overall experience.
We anticipate that this transaction will close in 2015 subject to customary closing conditions including regulatory NetScout shareholder and other approvals.
Upon close our Executive Vice President Jim Lico will join NetScout’s Board of Directors while retaining his responsibility to Danaher.
Now back to the results from the quarter our communications platform core revenues decreased at a double-digit rate.
High teens growth in our security solutions business was more than offset by a decline in network management solutions due to spending delays from a wireless carrier customers primarily in North America.
Despite the revenue decline we were encouraged by the positive order growth in the platform that we believe will continue for the remainder of the year.
At Arbor demand for Pravail enterprise security products grew more than 50% as IT Security customers continue to rely on Arbor to prevent and mitigate attacks on their networks.
Around the world conducting business has become increasingly virtual and Arbor is responding with flexible solutions to help customers of all sizes quickly and cost effectively launch or expand best-in-class security solutions.
Fluke Network saw robust demand for its enterprise TruView system and portable network tools which were each up 15%.
F Net’s TruView system continues to receive industry recognition and we are honored with the 2014 Communications Solutions Product of the Year Award from the global media company TMC.
Our instruments platform core revenue increased at low single-digit rate with growth in most major geographies.
Fluke core revenues were up mid-single digits representing its highest quarterly growth rate in over three years.
Growth was solid across most major product lines led by calibration and biomedical which each increased double-digits.
Distribution [sell-out] [ph] remained strong globally particularly in North America and China where growth was mid-single digit or better.
Fluke plans to build on this momentum by launching Fluke Connect in China later this month.
At Tektronix core sales were up slightly with modest growth in point of sales in North America and healthy demand for power supplies and oscilloscopes in China.
Turning to our environmental segment revenues increased 10.5% with core revenues up 5%.
Segment core operating margin improved 85 basis points with reported operating margin down 30 basis points due to the dilutive effect of recent acquisitions.
Water quality core revenues increased at a mid-single digit rate with strength in analytical instrumentation and chemical treatment solutions.
Hach executed well in a temperate municipal spending environment driving above market growth in both North America and Europe.
Sales also healthy in China growing double-digits.
This month Hach will launch the SL1000 Portable Parallel Analyzer or PPA a breakthrough system that dramatically streamlines water quality testing.
The PPA system is the only testing solution in the market that uses a disposable cartridge to improve ease of use and reduce the manual steps by over 50% in an EPA compliant drinking water testing environment.
Importantly it provides technicians of all experience levels with a fail safe way to achieve highly accurate and consistent results.
In Trojan demand for large municipal projects remain weak globally.
Encouragingly we received two Ballast Water Treatment system orders that will be installed in a total of 15 ships.
We anticipate the delivery of these systems will start in the second half of 2015.
On the regulatory front we received Alternative Management System or AMS acceptance from the US Coast Guard for a full suite of UU ballast water treatment product in July this is a temporary designation that allows customers to use Trojan solutions in US waters while our application for US type approval is pending.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root’s core revenues grew mid-single digits with real robust demands for our dispensers vapor recovery products and point-of-sales solutions.
Vapor recover sales grew more than 50% in China as businesses continue to work towards compliance with environmental regulations.
In point-of-sale North American customers are choosing GVR’s reliable and affordable payment security solutions as they operate their systems in advance of the new EMV regulations that begin to take affect in 2015.
In the quarter Gilbarco Veeder Root acquired FuelQuest a leading provider of fuel management solutions for suppliers distributors and buyers of petroleum products.
This acquisition further expands the capabilities of our Insite360 cloud-based fuel management platform by allowing our customers to remotely monitor fuel acquisition planning and distribution.
Moving to life sciences and diagnostics; revenue increased 4% with core revenues up 3%.
Core operating margin was up 120 basis points while our reported operating margin increased 100 basis points.
Core revenues in our diagnostics platform grew mid-single digits.
At Beckman Coulter core revenues increased a mid-single digit rate with double-digit growth in immunoassay urinalysis and automation.
Growth was particularly strong in China where revenues grew over 20%.
Beckman received FDA 510 clearance for its Power Express Sample Processing System in the quarter further expanding its world-class suite of automation products.
The Power Express is a scalable high speed system designed to automate sample processing in labs of all sizes across all core disciplines including chemistry immunoassay and hematology.
The Power Express is just one of several new FDA cleared solutions that will help our US customers improve efficiency and reduce turnaround time for critical diagnostic tests.
Radiometers core revenues increased at a mid-single digit rate led by more than 35% growth in AQT sales.
High growth market sales were up more than 20% as we continued to expand our market position in China.
Leica Biosystems core sales were up low-single digits as mid-teens growth in high growth markets was offset by weakness in core histology instruments in Europe.
Advanced staining instrument placements were particularly strong as revenues increased over 20% in the quarter.
We expect our advance staining growth rates to remain healthy as our growing installed base continues to drive sales of reagents and other consumables.
Core revenues in our life science platform grew at a low-single digit rate compared to high-single digit growth in the third quarter of last year.
Sales in the US and Western Europe were positive but we continue to experience uncertainty in tender timings and funding in China.
AB SCIEX core revenues grew mid-single digits with strength in academic clinical and applied markets.
We continue to expand our in vitro diagnostic offerings by launching the Triple Quad 4500MD and QTRAP 4500 systems.
4500 series offers greater flexibility exception sensitivity and faster data acquisition affording doctors and patients quicker access to reliable and accurate diagnostic test results.
Leica Microsystems core sales increased low-single digits.
Our SP8 microscope continues to be very well received and drove double-digit growth for our Confocal microscope systems.
Last Wednesday the Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to three scientists including Leica long time collaborator and key opinion leader Professor Stefan Hell.
Professor Hell and others were recognized for their work in developing a way to use optical microscopy to study the molecular processes in the living cells.
This work is especially meaningful to Leica as we collaborated with Professor Hell to commercialize the first microscope that uses this technology back in 2004.
Remarkably this is the fourth year in a row that Leica Microscopes have been sighted in Nobel Prize wining work and we are honored that our products continue to be used to support this and in other important scientific research.
Turning to Dental segment revenues increased 3.5% while core revenues were up 2%.
Our core operating margin increased 100 basis points and reported operating margin increased 110 basis points to 17.2%.
The team has done a terrific job in using DBS to drive productivity and improve segment margins over the past several years.
In early September we announced the pending acquisition of Nobel Biocare premier global brand and a pioneer in dental innovation.
Nobel Biocare has expertise in implant dentistry; digital prosthetics and software combined with our extensive capabilities in 3-D imaging intra-oral scanning and digital restorative solutions will benefit both patients and dentists by further optimizing clinical workflows.
We believe DBS will make a significant impact on Nobel Biocare’s performance by helping to drive further innovation growth and collaboration with our other dental companies.
We are confident that Nobel Biocare is an outstanding bid for Danaher and we look forward to working with this capable team.
The purchase price of $2.2 billion equates to approximately three times revenues and less than four times gross profit which we believe positions us well from a return perspective.
The acquisition remains subject to customary closing conditions including regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2014 or the first quarter of 2015.
Dental consumables core revenues grew low-single digits as healthy demand in China and the Middle East was partially offset by a modest decline in the developed markets.
In the US the sluggishness we saw in the second quarter continues.
Encouragingly demand for our implant products remain robust increasing globally at a double-digit rate.
Dental technologies core revenues were up mid-single digits driven by demand for our dental hand pieces and imaging equipment globally.
In mid-September we introduced the newest member of our family of Cone Beam 3-D imaging products the i-CAT FLX MV for a medium field of view.
The FLX MV allows dentist to capture a high resolution lower radiation 3D image of the upper and lower piece.
Our Tx STUDIO 5.3 software is also integrated in to the FLX allowing dentist to both scan patients mouth and prepare a full digital treatment plan from one location on a touch screen.
In our Industrial Technology segment revenues increased 2% while the core revenues were up 4.5% core operating margin expanded 145 basis points and reported operating margin increased a 170 basis points to 24.3%.
Motion core revenues increased a low-single digit rate marking the second consecutive quarter of growth to the platform.
Demand in the high growth markets was particularly strong led by industrial automation in China.
During the quarter we completed the divestiture of our electric vehicle systems and hybrid product lines which had annual revenue of approximately $100 million.
Core revenues in our product identification platform grew mid-single digit as Europe and the Middle East both thus saw double-digit growth.
At Videojet core revenues grew mid-single digits as a growing installed base of equipment and solid execution in service help drive high single digit after market revenue growth.
During the quarter Videojet launched its 1000 series of continuous inkjet printers.
These printers featuring extended life printing core that reduces down time and enables customers to print almost continuously for five years.
Esko also experienced robust demand in the quarter with double-digit growth in our workflow automation software and digital imaging products.
In September Esko released its new packaging design and workflow automation software Suite 14.
This comprehensive set of software tools helps brand owners interact with their global supply chains in the cloud in proving efficiency and control at every stage of the packaging design and pre-production process.
The reception of Suite 14 has been exceptional and over 1 000 customers have already upgraded since launch.
So to wrap up the Danaher team executed well this quarter using the Danaher business system to expand margins generate strong cash flow performance and deliver higher than expected earnings.
Across the portfolio our outstanding presence in high growth market investments in innovative new products and focus on improving sales and marketing have helped our businesses continue to take share in their markets.
As we plan for 2015 we remain mindful of the challenging macroeconomic outlook including the recently strong dollar.
Thus we are continuing to invest in high-impact areas while also increasing spending on productivity initiatives to approximately $125 million in the second half of 2014.
We believe our focus on growth investments and margin expansion combined with our robust balance sheet and M&amp;A capacity position us to finish 2014 well and drive long term results.
We are initiating fourth quarter diluted net EPS guidance of $1-$1.04 which assumes fourth quarter core revenue growth similar to the first three quarters of 2014.
so before we go to Q&amp;A I wanted to take a moment to share a few thoughts after the first six weeks of my time as Danaher’s CEO.
When this transition began I knew that Danaher’s future was bright.
I believe it’s now firmer than ever.
The caliber of our team the depth of incredible talent that deep commitment to DBS and our culture is second to none.
Financially our balance sheet has never been stronger much as we have done in the past and more recently with the $3.3 billion we have committed so far this year I look forward to channeling this strength to build upon our leading portfolio of companies.
At Danaher we compete for shareholders and that is on the top of my mind everyday.
We continue to look for smart ways to create value for our shareholders and other stakeholders such as this week’s announcement regarding the combination of our communications business with NetScout the recent divestiture of our electric vehicle and hybrid motor product lines and our pending acquisition of Nobel Biocare.
As you know we’re always in the process of evaluating portfolio and our focus will be on acquiring smartly partnering smartly and managing smartly.
Lastly our teams culture of continuous improvement using Danaher Business System will remain our primary focus because that is who we are and that is what truly defines our competitive advantage.
Thanks Tom.
That concludes our formal remarks and we’re now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll take our first question today from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Speaking of that the equity market are telling us that there is bad stuff out there but you guys don’t seem to sense any panic amongst your customers or anything.
Can you tell us if anything has changed in October any activity amongst your customers particularly in your more cyclical businesses like Industrial Tech or Fluke that folks are starting to hunker down a bit.
Scott it’s obviously still pretty early here in October and I’m sure they are all watching their screens or reading the paper day to day but I think the simple answer to your question is no.
We’ve seen a start to the October here is pretty consistent with what we’ve seen through the last couple of quarters but that is certainly not to suggest that this environment unfolds day to day here.
Those screens and those headlines won’t start to influence people’s behavior.
Obviously over time we’ve seen that happen and frankly not that the last week has necessarily been the overwriting influence on us but concerns over the macroeconomic situation obviously the changes in currency the shift and the strengthening of the dollar have all influenced the way we want to position ourselves going in to 2015.
But again going back to the short answer to your question no we are not seeing customer panic in the order book at the moment.
Okay and then the natural follow-on to that is the sellers you know a bid ad spreads have been a little frustrating I think for most guys in industrial the last couple of years and the sellers have gotten a little I don’t want to call it greedy but its certainly opportunistic.
Have you seen your phone light up in the last couple of weeks where sellers might be a little bit more amenable to compromise.
Again I don’t know that there has necessarily been any particular inflexion in the last couple of weeks or phone lines lighting up.
But I would say that as the general direction we have seen some increased activity.
We have seen I think the sellers interested in taking advantage of what are still some pretty rich valuations.
But those same sellers are interested in the transaction.
So I think we would generalize by saying that we are pleased with how the funnels are sitting today the cultivation conversations are good and we seem to be making progress in some those conversations.
So directionally we feel pretty good about where we are.
We’ll go to Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Just wanted to pick up on the comments about what might be changing and you are obviously planning for a pretty similar growth environment to what we’ve seen both in 3Q and year-to-date.
But I am wondering if the mix of that 3% is somewhat different and obviously Europe there is focus attention here and are you projecting a weaker Europe maybe stronger US; any change in the mix of that 3%? I wouldn’t necessarily say we are thinking about any dramatic shifts in that mix but I would say there are probably a few things to note.
I would say we’ve seen and perhaps we’d expect to see some marginal improvement here in the US.
I would say while the European environment has been stable quarter-to-quarter obviously there is a bit of concern out there right now about Germany and some potential slowing there.
So as Germany goes as we know sometimes Europe goes and so I think there is a reason for some caution as it relates to Europe.
More recently we have seen softness in Latin America specifically in Brazil and of course the situation in Russia has changed the trajectory of that market.
So I think when you put all of that together and then you add some continued very good growth in China maybe not quite as high as over a long period of time but certainly some continued very big growth.
I think you see some shifts on the margin but we’d still consider the high growth market to be the leaders the developed markets sort of hanging in there.
But maybe within each of those two major – that split you might see some shifts here and there.
Nigel maybe just to add one thing on Europe.
As Tom and I went through the strategic reviews here over the summer and the fall we actually think on a relative basis Europe’s one of the places we are doing pretty well and some businesses where we felt we were taking share a chunk of that was in Europe.
Hard not to be worried about all the headlines here in Europe news about Greece today and their sudden rise again in interest rates borrowing rates over there.
But actually at a relative basis I feel we like we performed pretty well there.
Okay so [Inaudible] some mug shakings there that’s pretty clear.
And then just digging a little bit deeper one of the hospital providers called out some benefits from the Affordable Care Act on their patient volumes and I am wondering if you’ve seen some benefits from that on your consumables and then on top of that life sciences remains a great challenge in China and I am wondering if you have a line of sight of when that might start improving.
So on the Affordable Care Act and the impact on consumables first of all we are very encouraged by the progress that we are making at that and I would say largely the progress we are making there and frankly across the entire diagnostic portfolio is very good execution across those businesses and those businesses I think are particularly Radiometer taking share and Leica Biosystems doing very well particularly in advanced staining which is an important area of future growth in one of the better market segments.
We think utilization is probably marginally improved as a function of the Affordable Care Act and I think there are some out there who would certainly say that the states with Medicaid expansion are the ones where we are seeing that uptake.
We are also seeing improvements in the hospital’s balance sheets with a little bit of pressure taken off the bad debt side.
So you kind of put those things together and yeah there’s a marginally improving environment there but relative to any improvement beyond that right now I think its probably still a little early to tell but improvements on the margin.
In terms of life science and in China specifically that’s probably one of the most challenging environment out there today.
You’ve heard us talk and perhaps others talk about some of the delays in funding in the life sciences market some of the concerns around compliance in that market that may be underpinning some of those delays as China enforces what we believe are ultimately good policies for how that market will operate.
But nevertheless that is a market that continues to be a slow market today and we don’t think that’s necessarily a phenomenon that’s going to ease up here in the next couple of weeks let alone perhaps even in the next couple of months.
So I think we are sort of thinking that that could be something that continues to be under some pressure a slower growth market maybe into 2015.
We’ll take our next question from Steven Winoker with Bernstein Research.
Tom may be a little perspective on Tektronix specifically; you know this is the first quarter in 11 quarters almost three years I suppose that where it’s turned positive even if you said it was up low-single digit but slightly.
Is this the start of something a little more significant and what drove that turn you know is there something fundamental that that’s starting to shift a little bit in that business that you’re seeing.
It’s obviously been a challenging time over a number of quarters but we are very encouraged by what we’ve seen in the last couple of quarters and the change there.
I think that team has executed very well.
I think they have done some very good things from a product and from a go-to-market standpoint.
Seeing two data points together is always a good thing to do on the positive side but I think that’s still a business that will be probably a low-single digit grower here over the near term.
So I would attribute it a little bit more on the execution side that necessarily a fundamental shift to an inflexion point in the market.
I mean clearly there are some things going on that will drive market growth over time but I put a little bit more on the teams execution here more recently.
And you mentioned Ballast Water for Trojan that’s another encouraging sign.
Is this just a one-off you think or something more significant again? No we would not consider this to be just a one-off.
We would consider it to be just the beginning and early and very positive indication of the market acceptance and I think its just important to remember that these regulatory approvals are really kind of threshold events for starting to bring this market to an inflexion point of higher growth and so we are excited by the approval that we got the AMS approval that I mentioned.
But that’s not as big a deal quite frankly as getting formal US Type approval that I mentioned that we expect next year.
So more to come on that very encouraging early indication of acceptance and it’s I think an indication of good things to come.
And if I could just sneak one more in on the separation all through this week the value of the business combination you’ve made abundantly clear.
Just may be a little more thinking on the shareholder value of doing this outside of Danaher rather than within Danaher.
Steve its Dan I think it’s a reflection of our long held view NetScout’s long held view that there was a lot of increment – and this is a one plus one equals three.
It’s a little bit like our tools joint venture but we think with a greater growth profile and we just ultimately concluded this was the best way to affect that.
We’ll take our next question from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
So you mentioned Ballast water and I guess are there any other businesses may be Beckman perhaps that just from some company specific dynamics should perhaps look better at this time next year versus what they are doing now just outside of the macro.
Steve I saw several opportunities that businesses had as I came through the strategic reviews that would point towards growth potential in a number of businesses.
I think for example if you think about Gilbarco Veeder-Root and what we are seeing around the early indications around the customer baser moving towards compliance with the EMV regulations that I mentioned.
I think that’s an indicator of some momentum that we could see later in 2015.
I think and you mentioned Beckman Diagnostics specifically.
I think that Beckman continues to drive their improvements in quality in service in delivery and the overall customer experience and then you combine that with some of the new product clearances and then the introduction of our molecular diagnostics platform [Barrettes] next year.
I think that too has exciting potential for Beckman.
So I think because it would be too outside and there would be a number of others if we walked across the portfolio.
Right and from a macro perspective it sounds like this is 3% type of economy.
It doesn’t sound like you think even though you highlight the macro challenge that’s out there it doesn’t sound like you think this is kind of a 1% -2% economy this is just kind of a stable and steady growth type of environment we are in right now.
Yeah I don’t think we want to go Chicken Little on here but I think we want to be ready for what comes.
We’ve done that obviously over a long period of time when the cycles moved through we try to anticipate where challenges come and we think there’s some indications out there that would be challenges but we are not trying to call a crisis here.
Yeah and then one last question just on portfolio mix by buying Nobel and doing this deal for the comps business I would assume this kind of reinforces the view that you guys aren’t particularly stuck in a frame of mind that was a certain percentage from a healthcare and a certain percentage from industrial businesses.
You are going to go where the opportunities provide the best strategic and financial returns.
Steve I probably couldn’t say it any better than you just said it.
We are not stuck on percentages and we absolutely moved to where we can add the greatest value for our shareholders by making those portfolio moves that come our way and that we can make happen over time.
Is it too late for sellers to get something done by the end of this year or is everybody just kind of looking more towards ’15.
How robust is the pipeline? Steve it’s not a tax driver here that – but on the margin here the last two or three months and just what we’ve seen in the last four-five months has been encouraging regarding conversations.
We’ll take our next question from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Just a quick one or two; just on the sell side of things Tom the NetScout deal is interesting right in an environment where its tough to buy perhaps it makes sense to sell a few things.
So I just wonder we are all fairly acquainted with your portfolio but what’s the prospect for other moves perhaps structured in different ways but kind of pruning opportunities in the portfolio.
First of all it’s important to recognize that there was not motivation behind the partnership with NetScout that had to do with it being tough to buy.
We thought that was just a great opportunity not matter what as you might have expected.
But we will continue to evaluate the portfolio and make sure that that our businesses are well positioned for the future.
I think we have a tremendous portfolio today.
I think going across the strategic plans that I did and not that I saw every operating company during the season but I saw all the major operating companies and certainly all of them from a platform point of view.
And I think there’s just a lot of potential that we have across the entire portfolio today.
But that being said you’ve heard Larry say it over a long period of time that no business has a permanent home at Danaher and we’ll continue to evaluate whether each of our businesses is well positioned in the portfolio and if we see opportunities for smart partnering or an opportunity where that business is better served to be in a better place we’ll certainly look to make that happen.
But in general I am thrilled with the portfolio we have today.
Right and then I was just wondering if we could get a little additional color on just what’s going on restructuring just kind of a couple of questions and points around that.
Tom I think you said a 125 million in second half implying some of it started in Q3.
I am wondering Dan if you can just kind of give us a little color kind of Q3 versus Q4 and if there is any change in deal cost and other things that are going on in the fourth quarter and may be just a little thought if you could on where the activity is taking place and what the payback might be.
Jeff on the about where it’s taking place obviously a lot of communication to do here so we are going to avoid to get in to specifics.
But the 125 million largely and that over 90% of this will be in the fourth quarter.
Broad based we would expect about a little bit less than a one year pay back.
So on an annualized basis we expect about a 100 million of savings and roughly $0.10 a share.
Probably don’t get all of that until we get to the end of the first quarter given there’s often some kind of lag effect but found a lot of good projects here and obviously we made decision to execute upon them.
Any change in deal cost in it.
Jeff I just might add to that I think if Dan and I went through each of the individual businesses both during the operating reviews earlier or during the strategic plan reviews it was clear that the businesses were already thinking ahead as to where those opportunities might be and how to take advantage of it.
So we were really pleased with how the businesses looked broadly across the portfolio and came up with really a terrific group of projects.
And then Jeff just in terms of deal costs we highlighted some of that in July.
I don’t think its changed much clearly loosing the motion business and the earnings in the fourth quarter that’s obviously in the guide here we continue to work on the integration of the Siemens business that’s going well but we are spending money on that.
The only thing that could be of significance that we would call it out if we were to Nobel here in the fourth quarter which was a possibility we would have some one-time expense which given the magnitude we would call out separately.
We’ll take our next question from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Just a question on Dental firstly sort of earlier in the quarter you talked about US sell-through of consumables being a little bit better doesn’t seem to have shown up yet in your number.
Is that something you think reverses pretty soon and also dental very very strong core margin improvement performance in Q3 that after a pretty weak Q2.
What do you think is a kind of steady-state run rate on that dental margin trajectory should be? On the dental consumables Julian it clearly is a business that is still closely tied to what we think is a fairly slow growth macro environment and so I think we are doing a good job from an execution standpoint I think but clearly we don’t have any tailwind from a market standpoint.
So we’ve got work to do there but I don’t think there’s anything impressive any more noteworthy than the environment in which that business is performing today.
Dan will comment on the second on kind of an outlook on margins but you are right to note certainly that it’s a good performance from dental on the margin side in Q3.
Dental technologies in particular did a very good job on driving margins some of that a function of things we did last year around productivity some of that just continuing good work this year from an execution standpoint and then a little bit of help overall across the segment from a mix standpoint with consumables despite the slightly slower growth that you commented on generally providing a pretty good mix for the segment overall.
And Julian in terms of margin for the full year and there will be some noise in Q4 obviously because of restructuring but from a core basis we would expect core margin expansion in that 75-100 basis points core margin improvement during the year.
You obviously saw more than that here in the third quarter.
It’s a little bit hard for me to kind of quote a number here given the expectation of Nobel coming in because we will have a lot of noise for a couple of quarters.
But ultimately with Nobel what we have we think this is a 20% segment in four to five year from now.
And then just on the outlook you obviously talked about restructuring measures you are enacting now and you talked earlier about the decent increases in SG&amp;A and R&amp;D in Q3 funded by the gross margins.
Have your own spending plans whether OPEX or CapEx changed in light of the macro conditions that you sight or for now you are kind of proceeding as you were and you will just watch to be able to put closely for changes.
Julian probably important to note here that we are just now entering in to budget season here so we’ll have work to do with each of the individual operating companies to understand how they are positioning for 2015.
And one of the things we try to make sure we do through that process is to recognize that there’s not a one size fits all across the portfolio when it comes to investment where those gross margin improvements either come from and/or where they get reinvested.
So as we walk across the businesses we will be thoughtful as we’ve always been about making sure that we are investing smartly in to those businesses that have the best opportunities that they are at the best positions in their market and that’s where you see [less] for example in R&amp;D and in sales and marketing and perhaps some other spots you might see us stay a little tighter.
We’ll take our next question from Richard Eastman with Robert W.
Baird.
Just a couple of quick questions on Siemens is that transaction that’s tracking on the timeline is that a first quarter close and Dan could you just give the IT integration expenses in Q3 and Q4 are those still kind of summing to may be 10 million but between the quarters.
That’s directionally correct; I don’t have them to break down.
We just debrief with the Beckman team the other day on the integration and its going well and all our expectations are for a Q1 close.
And then also Tom just in terms of China we continue to put up some very nice double digit growth there as mentioned and I think we understand the issues in the life sciences market place there and being regulatory and hopefully they clear sooner rather than later.
But it feels a little bit contradictory your growth in China coming in some of these more cyclical markets T&amp;M I think motion was mentioned.
It seems contrary may be to the macro perspective that people have in China.
So do you attribute your double-digit growth to your initiatives distribution sales marketing or how do you reconcile that.
Sure Rich thanks for the question.
Jim Lico and I were together in China I think its now two or three weeks ago for a number of days and we’ve sat with each one of our individual businesses in many case I was sitting with businesses that I was less familiar with.
But clearly I think what we saw was we saw a very good group of people an outstanding set of teams that are continuing to build commercial reach in those markets.
We are seeing teams now putting innovation related resources on the ground product planning resources we are adding to our local R&amp;D presence developing product for that local market and commercializing those product in ways that I think are helping to drive our growth.
And you are right to observe that that growth is coming fairly broadly across not just for example places where we’ve talked about it in the past like Beckman Diagnostics that continues to do an excellent job.
Of course that’s a very big business over there so that’s obviously part of that growth but it is broad based.
The dental team for example an outstanding over there that’s continuing to drive double digit growth and that’s not only good market but the team executing very well.
So I think if you put that altogether and it’s a good portfolio well positioned in a number of good markets with good teams that are continuing to invest aggressively.
We’ll take our next question from Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Just one follow-up question on the life science business; if I look at your comments here you did say a combination of pressure in China both in terms of the overall demand environment as well as budget delays.
So I was wondering which of the two was may be a bigger factor just to give us an insight on what your visibility is on our recovery there heading in to next year.
Isaac tough to parse what you described as budget delays versus overall demand.
But if I were to try and generalize we know that there has been and continues to be scrutiny over particularly the larger tenders the instrumentation related tenders and whether you call that budgetary or you call it a demand I am not sure.
Now that being said there is another dimension which is we are on a macro basis our investments going at the moment and clearly we see investments going in to the diagnostics that’s more in the healthcare side of the house and we are seeing obviously the benefit of that and our business is doing very well there.
And perhaps that means slightly less in to the true research side of the house but I think it’s a little tough to parse that much more precisely.
I think I would say compared to 90 days ago initially goes to kind of Rich’s previous question there are some parts in China that we actually incrementally feel a little better about.
But I think to be fair on life science we’d have to say we are incrementally a little bit more negative than we were 90 days ago.
That’s helpful.
And then on T&amp;M you guys have been (inaudible) tell a little bit expectations for a continued negative growth there in the wireless business in to 2015 so.
So just wondering how broad based that is across to customers and just confirming that you don’t think it’s an issue of market share just more of the environment.
We think it’s largely an environment and I think that the thing that’s kind of most encouraging here is we saw orders turn positive in the third quarter for the platform and that trend actually looks pretty good heading here in to Q4 as well.
The issue there is we often get - some of that orders we actually get upfront payment you see that in some of the numbers in our cash flow statement but we actually won’t book revenues for six nine and 12 months out.
So we are seeing a nice turn in terms of orders.
The next couple of quarters are going to be challenged here I don’t think that’s changed but I think the outlook’s looking a little better here.
Ladies and Gentlemen that does conclude our question and answer session.
Mr.
Gugino I will turn it back to you for closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us we’ll be around all day for questions.
Ladies and Gentlemen thank you so much for your participation this morning.
This does conclude today’s conference.
Good day.
My name is Aaron and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Matt Gugino Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Gugino you may begin your conference.
Thanks Aaron and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Tom Joyce our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I’d like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today’s call and the reconciling and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investor section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information-Quarterly Earnings and will remain available following the call.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investor section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until February 3 2015.
The replay number is (888) 203-1112 U.S.
and (719) 457-0820 internationally and the confirmation code is 1202913.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Please refer to the supplemental materials and our annual report on Form 10-K when it is filed for additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Unless otherwise noted all references in these remarks and accompanying presentation to earnings revenues and other company-specific financial metrics relate to the fourth quarter of 2014 and relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's business and all references to period-to-period increases or decreases in financial metrics are year-over-year.
I’d also like to note that we’ll be making some statements during the call that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings.
It is possible that actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events and developments or otherwise.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
We were very pleased with the strong finish to 2014.
The Danaher Business System continue to enhance our competitive advantage driving market share gains solid core margin expansion and record free cash flow generation.
For the full year our targeted organic investments help drive 3.5% core revenue growth and our total revenue is now just shy of $20 billion.
These investments in new products and go-to-market initiatives enabled us to increase market share in many of our businesses including Fluke Hach Gilbarco Veeder-Root Radiometer AB SCIEX Implant Direct and Videojet.
From a portfolio optimization perspective 2014 was also a very busy year for Danaher.
We announced or closed 18 acquisitions for nearly $4 billion improving our market-leading positions across the portfolio.
Most notable among these are our two large deals Nobel Biocare and Devicor which closed in December.
We also announced the combination of our Communications business with NetScout which we believe will better position these two highly complimentary businesses for long-term success.
Finally we divested the electric vehicle systems and hybrid product lines within our automation platform.
Going forward we remain focused on building a better stronger Danaher by utilizing our robust balance sheet and smartly deploying our $8 billion plus of acquisition capacity.
In 2014 we generated a record $3.2 billion of free cash flow and our free cash flow to net income conversion ratio was 122%.
This represents the 23rd consecutive year in which our free cash flow exceeded net income an important metric that represent the quality of the earnings we generate.
We also returned more of this cash to shareholders increasing our annual dividend to $0.40 per share from $0.10 per share.
Turning to the fourth quarter revenues grew 3% to $5.4 billion while organic revenue grew 4% exceeding our expectations.
More than half of our platforms delivered mid single-digit core revenue growth including T&amp;M Instruments Water Quality Gilbarco Veeder-Root Diagnostics Life Sciences and Product ID.
Acquisitions increased revenues by 2.5% while currency translation decreased revenues by 3.5%.
From a geographic perspective high-growth markets increased at a mid single-digit rate.
Performance was mixed with solid results in China and double-digit growth in the Middle East partially offset by slowing growth in Latin America and a high teens decline in Russia.
In the developed markets both the U.S.
and Western Europe grew at a mid single-digit rate an acceleration from the low single-digit growth experienced in the first three quarters of the year.
Sales in the U.S.
increased at the fastest rate since the second quarter of 2011 with our Gilbarco Veeder-Root and Life Sciences platforms up more than 10%.
Our fourth quarter gross margin was 52.5% excluding the impact of productivity initiatives.
Core operating margin increased 70 basis points with three of our five segments improving greater than a 100 basis points.
Our reported operating margin declined 50 basis points to 16.4% due primarily to increased productivity charges and the dilutive impact of recent acquisitions.
In total we spent approximately $155 million on productivity initiatives in the fourth quarter.
For the full-year our gross margin was 52.4% and our gross profit improved nearly $500 million.
This allowed us to increase our combined investment in R&amp;D in sales and marketing over $200 million from 2013 while expanding core operating margin 65 basis points.
We reported fourth quarter adjusted diluted net EPS of $1.04 which compares favorably to our previous guidance of a $1 to a $1.04 and represents an increase of 8% year-on-year.
For the full year adjusted diluted net EPS was $3.68 also up 8% from 2013.
Now turning to our five operating segments Test &amp; Measurement revenues increased 1.5% while core revenues were up 0.5%.
Reported operating margin improved 130 basis points while core operating margin declined slightly.
Core revenue in our instruments platform increased at a mid-single-digit rate with growth in most major geographies.
This was the platform’s highest quarterly growth rate in over three years driven by improving market conditions organic investments and new product innovations such as Fluke Connect.
Fluke core revenues were up mid-single-digits for the second consecutive quarter with our core industrial and biomedical product lines each increasing at a high single-digit rate or better.
Distribution sellout in North America accelerated sequentially growing at a high single-digit rate.
Demand in Europe was also healthy.
At Tektronix core sales were up mid-single digits representing the highest quarterly growth rate since the third quarter of 2011.
Demand was strongest in North America with solid growth in the military and government optical and semiconductor segments.
During the quarter Tektronix launched the RSA306 radio frequency spectrum analyzer a portable USB powered device which offers as much functionality as a bench-top equipment allowing engineers in the field to ensure radio frequencies of free of distortion and interference.
Our communications platform core revenues decreased at a double-digit rate.
Mid-single-digit growth in our security solution and network enterprises businesses was more than offset by a decline in network management solutions where we continued to experience delays from our North American wireless carrier customers.
Despite the weakness on the topline we were encouraged by our book-to-bill ratio which was almost 1.2 times for the second half of 2014.
And we believe our communications platform will return to growth in 2015.
We continue to expect a combination of our communications business with NetScout to close in mid-2015 subject to approval by NetScout shareholders and the satisfaction of customary closing conditions including regulatory approvals and the absence of a material adverse change with respect to either our communications business or NetScout.
At Arbor North American sales increased over 25% with robust demand from enterprise security customers.
During the quarter Arbor further strengthened its presence in the enterprise segment with the launch of Pravail Security Analytics.
This scalable cloud-based solution allows organizations of any size to detect and view attacks on their global network in real time and in greater detail than ever before.
Fluke Networks saw double-digit growth in its network installation tools and enterprise systems products.
FNET bookings also grew at a double-digit rate surpassing $100 million in the quarter for the first time in its history.
Turning to our Environmental segment revenues grew 5.5% with core revenues up 5%.
Segment operating margin declined 330 basis points primarily due to the dilutive effect of recent acquisitions and incremental productivity charges.
Water quality core revenues increased at a mid-single-digit rate led by robust growth in our analytical instrumentation and chemical treatment businesses.
Hach had another outstanding quarter with growth across most major product lines.
U.S.
municipal sales were up high single digits as customers are increasing their maintenance project budgets.
Sales in China were up over 20% driven by the government’s continued focus on environmental protection.
And last quarter we highlighted the SL1000 Portable Parallel Analyzer a breakthrough product that simplifies the water quality testing process.
Hach’s new product introductions including the SL1000 have exceeded expectations with revenue from new portable lab products tripling from 2013.
ChemTreat reached another sales milestone in December achieving 400 million in annual sales for the first time.
ChemTreat has now nearly doubled in size from its acquisition in 2007.
Notably this has largely been organic the result of the development and application of their best-in-class go-to market model.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's core revenues grew mid-single digits as sales of point of sale solutions and dispensers in the U.S.
increased over 30%.
GVR's comprehensive product suite has helped to make a deferred solution among customers looking to upgrade their payment systems to comply with upcoming EMV security requirements.
Sales were also robust in China where demand for GVR’s vapor recovery and dispenser products grew double digits.
Moving to Life Science &amp; Diagnostics revenue increased 3% with core revenues up 5%.
Core operating margin improved 135 basis points.
For the full year core operating margin expanded 110 basis points.
This marks the fifth consecutive year segment core operating margin has improved over a 100 basis points.
Core revenues in our diagnostics platform grew mid-single digits with healthy demand in both the high-growth and developed markets.
For the third consecutive quarter core revenues at Beckman Coulter increased at a mid-single-digit rate led by immunoassay chemistry and urinalysis solutions.
Beckman also experienced strength in their automation business where new product such as Power Express drove record December shipments.
The positive momentum in the U.S.
continued with our sales team achieving record customer retention and win rates leading to mid-single-digit growth.
Beckman received 510(k) clearance for the Vitamin D Total assay on its access line of instruments.
This represents a significant addition to Beckman’s bone metabolism testing menu as nearly 1 billion people in the world are estimated to be Vitamin D deficient.
Beckman also introduced four immunosuppressant drug assays allowing doctors to better monitor therapeutic drugs in transplant recipients.
Radiometer’s core revenues were up approximately 10% with HemoCue sales increasing double-digits and AQT growing over 35%.
2014 marked Radiometer's 10th anniversary with Danaher.
The results over the past decade have been extraordinary with the team increasing revenues more than 2.5 times to nearly $800 million while tripling operating profit.
Leica Biosystems core sales were up high-single digits with healthy demand across our entire suite of anatomical pathology instrumentation and consumables.
Advanced staining finished the year particularly strong in the U.S.
placing a record number of Bond systems in the quarter.
In December Leica Biosystems acquired Devicor a leading provider of minimally-invasive biopsy systems and consumables used in breast cancer diagnostics.
This acquisition moves Leica further upstream in anatomical pathology to the biopsy providing better sample control and delivering higher levels of diagnostic quality and confidence.
Core revenues in our Life Science platform were up mid-single digits led again by the U.S.
and Europe.
AB SCIEX core revenues grew mid-single digits with strength in clinical pharma and applied markets.
We've been pleased with the market reception of our new 6600 TripleTOF SWATH Acquisition 2.0 software with demand exceeding expectations since launch in June of last year.
Those of you who attended our Investor Day last month heard about OneOmics AB SCIEX’s innovative partnership with Illumina.
OneOmics brings together next-generation sequencing and proteomics data in the cloud to help advance research across multiple diseases such as cancer diabetes Alzheimer's and heart disease.
This unique solution has received significant attention in the research community and was named one of the top 15 inventions in 2014 by the Analytical Scientist magazine.
Leica Microsystems core sales increased mid-single digits with growth across all major product lines.
The confocal line of microscopes continues to garner industry recognition with the latest SP8 STED 3X receiving a Top 10 Innovation award from The Scientist Magazine.
The STED further advanced its research in important fields such as immunology by providing scientist a 3D view of previously unobservable details of living cells.
Turning to Dental; segment revenues increased 6% while core revenues were up 2.5%.
Our core operating margin improved 185 basis points.
As we previously mentioned during the quarter we closed on the acquisition of Nobel Biocare.
We are excited to have Nobel Biocare as part of the Danaher team and the business end 2014 with its seventh consecutive quarter of core revenue growth.
While still very early we've been pleased with the feedback from both associates and customers and we look forward to sharing further updates on Nobel’s performance with you in the coming months.
Dental consumables core revenues were up low-single digits with 30% growth in China and the Middle East partially offset by continued weakness in the U.S.
Implant Direct our value-oriented implant business continues to perform well growing double digits.
During the quarter we expanded our endodontic product line with the launch of ElementsFree a cordless hand tool featuring motorized extrusion and precise temperature control giving endodontist unmatched accuracy and flexibility to perform complex procedures such as root canals.
Dental technologies core revenues were up low-single digits led by double-digit growth in hand pieces.
Last quarter we launched the i-CAT FLX MV our most recent advanced in 3D imaging.
Customer reception has been exceptional with over 100 systems shipped to-date.
We also expanded our line of dental surgical equipment with the launch of KaVo MASTERsurg LUX.
The KaVo MASTERsurg line is our latest innovation in surgical instruments for dental implants and oral surgery improving productivity and clinical accuracy by enabling dentists to store and program settings for multiple procedures.
The MASTERsurg line also provides better surgical command and flexibility with the industry's first wireless foot control.
Moving to our Industrial Technology segment; revenues declined 1% while core revenues were up 5%.
Core operating margin expanded 120 basis points and reported operating margin expanded 310 basis points to 20.4%.
Automation core revenues grew at a low-single digit rate led by strong demand in North American distribution and for industrial automation products in China.
This marks the third consecutive quarter of growth for the automation platform.
Core revenues in our Product Identification platform grew mid-single digits with high-single digit growth in developed markets and double-digit growth in Europe.
At Videojet core revenue was up high-single digits as it continues to gain market share broadly.
During the quarter Videojet launched remote services the industry's first virtual troubleshooting solution for printers.
With remote services maintenance technicians can now resolve customer problems up to 90% faster than field visits.
Innovative solutions such as these help Videojet increase their service contracts more than 20% in 2014.
X-Rite finished the year strong with both sales and orders growing double digits.
In December Pantone announced Marsala as the 2015 Color of the Year with extensive media coverage online in-print and on TV.
The Color of the Year and the billions of media impressions it generates solidifies Pantone's iconic brand and was one of the drivers of high-single-digit growth in X-Rite’s color standards business in 2014.
So to wrap up we had a strong finish to the year with core revenue growth exceeding our expectations.
The Danaher business system helped us to gain market share while also driving solid core margin expansion and record free cash flow.
While cognizant of the current macroeconomic challenges our investments in growth and productivity initiatives combined with a robust balance sheet we’re confident in our ability to outperform in 2015 and beyond.
We are initiating first quarter adjusted diluted net EPS guidance of $0.90 to $0.94 which excludes non-cash amortization expense and certain acquisition-related charges.
We are assuming first quarter core revenue growth of 4% or better.
We’re also updating our full year 2015 adjusted diluted net earnings per share guidance which we now expect to be in the range of $4.30 to $4.40.
The strengthening of the U.S.
dollar since our December investor meeting is expected to reduce 2015 earnings by approximately $0.10 per share.
We anticipate offsetting approximately $0.05 per share of this headwind from savings associated with the incremental fourth quarter productivity initiatives we highlighted recent acquisitions including the Siemens microbiology deal which we expect to close in the near-term as well as other actions.
Core revenue for the full year 2015 is anticipated to grow between 3% and 4%.
Thanks Tom.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Aaron we are now ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] We will first go to Steven Winoker with Bernstein.
Your line is now open.
Thanks and good morning guys.
Good morning Steve.
Hope you’re staying warm and dried down there.
And same to you and to all on the call.
Thanks for what might have been a challenging morning for many.
I’m sure none of us have missed this anyway.
Core operating margin in T&amp;M and Environmental could you just walk us through the slight decline in T&amp;M and a bigger one in Environmental.
What drove that? Little more detail there would be great.
Sure Steve.
The Test &amp; Measurement in -- obviously the decline this quarter is lot less than it has been in previous quarter and it is largely driven by the communications business which was again down mid-teen.
So a very high contribution margin business and that volume usually impacting Test &amp; Measurement.
And then Environmental? Environmental it was pretty clear we were having a very strong quarter both in GVR and across the water businesses.
They have a number of growth initiatives and this created an opportunity to accelerate some of that R&amp;D and go-to-market investment here in the fourth quarter.
I don’t think it’s -- I don’t think it’s indicative of a trend in all.
I think it was an opportunity to get ahead of some things given the strength we saw that began early in the fourth quarter.
And Steve just to add to that on the Environmental side certainly talking to water analytics businesses those businesses continue to perform exceptionally well.
They have covered virtually every debt they've made when it came to some incremental investment to drive topline and share gains.
So when those guys come up with an opportunity to put a little bit more at work to drive growth in share we tend to be supportive of that if we can see our way to cover and form.
Okay great.
And then on currency maybe you know -- I know we’ve talked about currency a lot in the past.
You weren’t able to fully offset that for your guide for the year just given how bigger drop obviously it’s been even since December.
But are we -- should we -- what’s your ability I think to sort of provide you think maybe additional offset during the year? And then secondly just -- do you have any competitive issues on pricing what not in any of your markets as given there is such a large move in currency and competitor’s ability to price for that? Steve on the first point we have -- in no way we thrown in the towel on the balance of going after that extra $0.05.
We’re continuing to challenge the teams as we always do to try to come back on that.
But we’re encouraged by the strong start we've had here coming off of the fourth quarter encouraged by what we’re seeing in the early stages here of January so that feels good.
But we know the strength of the dollar is a headwind.
We’re doing things proactively as we did using the productivity initiatives to get a piece of that back.
Siemens is obviously going to help a bit there.
And I think we’d also get a little bit of help and that’s part of the $0.05 that we’ve clawed back from what we think would be a maybe a little bit of deflation that could help us on some commodity costs and perhaps some freight and transport top cost.
So I think we’ve got a few things that give us confidence in getting the first $0.05 back but we’re continuing to work on the balance per share.
I think on the second question about competitively clearly there has been an impact with the euro on our financial results but competitively we have not seen that impact.
We said after the third quarter we thought we were taking share in Europe.
We just posted a mid-single-digit core growth number in Europe.
I suspect that’s going to be towards the top of the class here as all companies would report.
So despite the stronger dollar we are performing extremely well in Europe right now.
All right guys.
I’ll now pass it on.
Thanks.
Thanks Steve.
And our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan with UBS.
Your line is now open.
Good morning guys.
Hey Shannon.
Hey just in terms of the strength that you saw in the U.S.
maybe a little more color on what particular piece of that might have surprised you most and what you feel the best about continuing? Sure.
Well as I think I mentioned it was a terrific quarter in the U.S.
best since the second quarter of 2011.
It was remarkably broad based Shannon.
We saw strength at GVR saw strength in T&amp;M instruments the tech and fluid continuing to execute better saw good sellout associated with the fluid business.
The Hach business continues to perform very well with our muni customers releasing funds associated with projects.
And we’re very encouraged by what we saw in Life Sciences with good performance in that platform.
So it was a number of businesses that that had a very good finish to the year in the U.S.
And some times we’ve had a good fourth quarter and then you kind of catches up a little bit in 1Q.
I mean this was in sense any kind of boost from just kind of year end flush? Yeah.
So it’s -- one of my favorite topics Shannon in the first week of any January is that we see anything that might cause an air pocket.
It looks pretty good from where we sit right now.
The early January orders and it is still early appear pretty good.
So we’re encouraged by that and we think we are off to a good start.
And then just on M&amp;A the world has got more volatile here in the markets certainly in ‘15.
Is that good for you guys from an M&amp;A perspective? I mean do you feel better about the acquisition environment than you did few months ago or worse? How does that impact you? Well Shannon generally volatility is kind of a positive for the strong corporate buyer.
We’ve seen some of the restrictions being put on private equity here around leverage.
That definitely has a favorable impact as well.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Shannon.
And our next question comes from Steve Tusa with J.P.
Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Can you just talk about what you're seeing in emerging markets and maybe within some of your more cyclical businesses in emerging markets China maybe specifically? Sure Steve.
We’re continuing to see very good performance in China.
But first of all just broadly across high-growth markets we clearly have seen a narrowing of the delta that we've seen for a long time between the high-growth markets and developed markets in general.
Part of that is a function of some of the strength we've seen in the U.S.
certainly our execution in Europe where we gained share in the variety of places.
It continues to also support good performance on our side on the developed markets.
On the high-growth market side again helping it to causing a narrowing of that delta we’ve got a slower position in China in a macro sense.
Obviously some weakness in smaller markets where we have less exposure but we see a little bit of impact in places like Russia and Brazil clearly is in a slower growth mode than it has been in the prior couple of years.
Probably a bright spot in the Middle East with excellent performance from our businesses.
But I see actually we’ve believe a pretty good macro environment there at least at the moment.
In China specifically Steve we’ve had very good performance across a number of our businesses the Environmental business certainly Hach and GVR performing exceptionally well there.
Our dental business continues to grow double-digits in China and probably the core weak spots remains the Life Science business.
We've talked quite a bit over the last number of months about some of the issues there relative to some scrutiny around tenders some slowing of the release of funding.
But we think there -- that we might think that -- there maybe a point of stability that we’ve reached here and maybe some cause for some improvement here in 2015.
Dan was actually just there a week or so ago in China and he may have a couple of thoughts.
Yes.
Steve just add one or two things.
We grew full year in China kind of 8% or 9%.
Q4 was a little slower as more like 6% but I would say the tone there was pretty good.
Clearly Test &amp; Measurement got better through the year much better second half than first half.
As Tom alluded to all the -- most of the healthcare businesses Environmental -- Environmental was up double-digit Dental was up double-digit Diagnostic was up double-digit on a very large revenue base and Industrial which was negative had returned to kind of modest growth as well.
Life Sciences was down mid single-digit for the full year kind of in that zone in the fourth quarter but I think that the tone in early January.
I think in part because 2015 will be the -- is the fifth year of their current five-year plan and they are fundamentally I think so very committed as a country to Life Sciences research I think the tone is little better there as well.
I am not saying we’re going to bounce back to double-digit growth here in Life Sciences but would not be at all surprised if we turn positive here in ’15.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
Thanks Steve.
And we’ll take our next question from Jeff Sprague with Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning gents.
Hi Jeff.
Hi.
Just a couple of quick one here too.
Could you elaborate a little bit Tom on the comments on U.S.
muni? Do you think there is actually a turn going on there or was there just kind of some project activity in the quarter? Jeff I think in general we see some macro strength in the muni market with some of the situations in a variety of municipalities getting marginally better and that’s allowed some projects to get released.
I wouldn't say that’s the whole story though.
The Hach business continues to execute exceptionally well many of their digital marketing initiatives and their expansion of feet on the street across both the muni market and the Industrial market I think is help them to continue to gain share.
So I think a combination of a marginally improving macro environment is part of the story and share gains being the other part.
Have you seen any change in kind of seller’s attitude here with kind of all the turmoil in general and kind of the QE in Europe just any change in tone or activity at this point? Jeff its hart to point anything specific other than last competition from private equity which is a positive.
Right.
Right.
And then could you just elaborate a little bit more on the acceleration you had in Europe? Was there something that stood out? Was it broad based across the businesses? We saw -- it was relatively broad based Jeff.
Life Sciences executed extremely well.
We saw good growth there.
Our Dental business but particularly on the equipment side the Dental business also executed very well and PID those would be at least three that I would highlight.
If I added a fourth it would probably be the Beckman Diagnostics business also executing very well.
So it was markedly broad but I wouldn’t necessarily think about that as something indicative of a change in the macro environment in Europe.
We saw nothing that would perhaps really indicate that.
But instead we just -- we had some teams that I think did an excellent job of some new products and we’re really driving their sales and marketing initiatives very effectively.
And that is in Europe for Europe right.
There is not any kind of export kick out of there on lower euro right? That’s correct.
That’s revenue into Western Europe right.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot guys.
And we’ll take our next question from Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Brandon.
Just a quick one on the Nobel deal do the changes in the FX reality affect how you view accretion there for the year and any chance you could give us the actual point estimate on the 4Q organic growth to that business? Brandon it won't have much of an impact.
They do have some cost base over there as we -- we also have some cost related to some of our other Healthcare businesses.
The offset is we all told.
We have about $200 million of revenues in Switzerland so that will be a benefit.
So net-net neither for Nobel nor the Corporation do we think what’s happened with the Swiss currency.
It’s going -- it will be relatively neutral task.
That business continues to kind of grow at kind of 2% to 4% clip and that’s been over the last couple of quarters they were in that zone for Q4 as well.
Excellent.
Secondly on the Dental business I mean a number of companies that wanted to strength in the U.S.
in the back half of the year? I mean to what degree at all if you seen any vitality in the developed world particularly in the U.S.
and is there any sign of optimism in terms of an acceleration perhaps this year? Brandon I think we’re probably most excited about what we see on the equipment side in Dental.
The new product innovation I think you saw many of those when we were out in California earlier during the year in 2014.
The digital initiatives and I think some of the potential that we have as we integrate the components of the workflow that Nobel Biocare can bring to the table along with what the KaVo Kerr group of businesses bring.
I think that’s really where our optimism sits relative to the U.S.
Dental market.
On the consumables side we see it really as a continuing relatively modest growth market.
You’ve seen pretty consistent low single-digit growth from us.
We do -- we have seen some inventory de-stocking in the latter part of last year that maybe carrying over here in the first part of this year but generally that our business has continues to perform pretty well and what arguably is kind a slow growth macro environment there.
Time will tell us to whether or not some of this reduction in oil prices that will translate to cost of filling up a tank ends up improving overall consumer sentiment and give us a little tailwind there but boy probably too early to tell.
Superb.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Thank you.
I guess first of all I just wanted to see if there was any change in the expectations on core growth by segment for 2015 given you had a pretty good core growth quarter in Q4? And also just on Industrial Tech specifically you had the highest growth rate pool since mid-2011 similar growth rate in Q3 but a tougher base so maybe some updates on that? Julian I would say that PID clearly the biggest piece of Industrial Tech continues to perform quite well.
I don't think they’re really looking for change in that growth trajectory here in 2015.
In the first quarter as we highlighted we think we’ll do 4% or better.
Again we're talking 3% to 4% for the full year.
Our internal numbers right now are rolling up around 4% for the first quarter but as Tom alluded to we finished Q4 pretty strong and we’re off to a very good start here in the first three weeks of January.
We also have some extra days here in the first quarter that should be a benefit as well.
I think the offset there are two of those extra days are the Thursday and Friday before Easter which tends to be kind of slow days.
Japan which was a big grower last year ahead of the bad increase we’ll likely be down here in Q1 year-on-year.
And as we allude in the call we expect our tech comp this will be the last we think really poor quarter for that business similar to what we saw in the second half of 2015.
We’re encouraged by what we are seeing in terms of bookings but from shipments we are going to have a tough Q1 as well.
But all up things are looking pretty good out of the gate here or early in the first quarter.
Thanks and then just secondly.
When you talked about the Q1 EPS guidance I think that was a comment around some M&amp;A charges being excluded.
I just wondered if I’d misheard that or if there was anything new in terms of sort of presentation of adjusted earnings? That is correct.
I mean consistent with our past practice for deals that are over $1 billion we call out kind of the early charges large non-cash charges.
So we still have a little bit left in Nobel in the first quarter.
And I think that will be about $0.02.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Julian.
And our next question comes from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Scott.
And excuse me I doubt in about 10 minutes later if you commented on price and I apologize but is there -- I mean I know your raw material costs are generally lower and it’s not a big deal for you guys but are you out there with price increases for 2015 or broadly? Scott if you think about where your question might go specifically geographically it might go to Europe.
And interestingly we are outperforming in Europe.
We think we are taking share in Europe.
We saw a broad-based performance across the businesses in Europe.
And so no particular concern there.
I think teams are clearly looking very selectively market by market.
These currency shifts have not been exclusively in Europe.
They’ve been in quite a number of markets.
Generally we are pretty well positioned in terms of the functional currency that we transact in.
But where there are issues our teams are carefully looking at those situations and we’ll take price very selectively where we need to or compete on price if it comes to that.
I mean I guess I don’t want to beat a dead horse but do you anticipate having positive price for 2015 on an ongoing basis? Yes Scott.
And again -- where we will get that in all likelihood will be the 40% of revenues that comes out in the aftermarket.
Yeah.
That’s what I was alluding to if you are in -- if you are already out there catalogs et cetera with price increases? Oh yeah.
No that’s absolutely right Scott.
That -- Those plans were locked and loaded in the fourth quarter and we are on the street virtually across the businesses right now with those plans and in the market with those numbers.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up inverse of Jeff’s question on private equity and competition I mean have you seen the opposite which means private equity I think for probably the last five years have been buying up industrial and even some healthcare assets.
I mean have you seen those guys come back to the table and say it's -- they are looking to start unloading? Scott they are always in the market place and clearly there are assets out there held in the hands of private equity that we would have some interest in.
I wouldn’t say that’s gotten better or worse here recently those discussions.
Okay.
And last last but not least I mean I know you changed your -- the cash earnings.
Have you changed internally your hurdle rates at all? I mean historically you guys have had a pretty strict discipline around hurdle rates.
I am just wondering and given your lower financing costs as such if that’s dropped at all? Scott we have not changed our internal hurdle rates that discipline that we've had over a long period of time remains internally around returns for bolt-ons at three years and broad -- and bigger larger more adjacent businesses new businesses over a five year period.
That is discipline has been really important to the overall performance that we’ve demonstrated.
What we have said is that we want to be thoughtful and cognitive in this environment relative to what might be larger transaction that could have significant strategic value for the corporation where we might need to take a hard look at those returns and the team here and the board.
We support making the right decision strategically for the corporation in the event that those returns maybe not where they we might like them to be.
But that’s the bridge we’ll cross when we have that opportunity.
And we’ll make the right decision that really drives the long-term strategic competitive advantage of platform or our segment.
Okay.
Great.
I’ll pass it on.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Scott.
And our next question comes from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey Nigel.
Yeah.
So just couple of questions on core growth pretty strong performance across the portfolio ex-T&amp;M but you self alluding to market share gains.
It sounds like ‘15 Europe.
And I am just wondering is that the case Tom and which businesses would you call out where you are gaining share and perhaps may be if you could comment on whether we are seeing the delayed impact from some of the R&amp;D and marketing investments you have made over the last 12 months? We are continuing to make those investments Nigel in sales and marketing and in R&amp;D as I noted in my opening comments.
The good performance on the topline and the good gross margin expansion that we’ve seen has allowed us to continue to invest aggressively in growth initiatives around both new product innovation and go-to market feet on the street.
The share gains as we noted earlier were pretty broad based.
And yes they were in some cases specifically in Europe couple of the businesses that I mentioned earlier were around our life science platform our dental equipment business and Product ID just to name of few.
Okay.
That’s great.
That’s helpful.
And then we’ve seen consumables leading the way on topline I guess this cycle with equipment lagging behind.
Are we seeing any change I mean just seeing or hearing about the comments from U.S and Europe particularly in Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics are we seen an inflection point in equipment? We definitely saw a modestly better Q3 and a definitely better Q4 in terms of equipment.
So if you look at our 4% we were 5% aftermarket in 3 or maybe is a little bit over 3 on the equipment side.
And that’s one of the better numbers we posted on equipment and that includes our communications business which came down mid-teens.
So if you adjust for that our equipment business was probably up more like 4 plus.
So we are not quite prepared to kind of call it a trend here but we are encouraged by what we've seen for last four five months in terms of our overall equipment orders.
And that 4%-ex comes would be with the best in how many years? Probably you have to go back to the ‘11 recovery.
Okay.
Middle implicate right.
And then just going back to the comments on the M&amp;A process little bit of FX and emerging market volatilities does one that will shake the complacency of sellers? Are you seen any kind of change out from sellers? Are they a bit off spread something now? No as you know a lot of this has been just in the last 30 45 days I think it’s a little early to tell but it’s hard not to be a little bit more optimistic.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
And we will take your next question from Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning.
Hi Andrew.
Good morning Andrew.
Just a broader long-term question.
If I look at the emerging markets what’s happening in Russia and Brazil people are talking about euro going to parity.
Do you think you need to change anything about your strategy about your manufacturing footprint for the next several years? Even China is growing at 6%.
I’m not sure when was the last time that happened? Andrew we’ve got a long history of moving manufacturing into lower-cost regions.
Not all of that has been into China.
In some cases it’s been into Eastern Europe.
In some cases it has been into India and we’ll continue to position our cost structure I think in a way that is resilient over the long-term.
I think we want to be a little careful not to change our supply chain prematurely or in a disruptive way not knowing kind of what maybe the sustained currency position is ultimately going to be.
So I think the teams are doing exceptional job positioning that footprint well for the long-term.
And it’s not all about the individual or the cost of individual region.
It’s also about the way we execute in any region.
And I think we’ve got a number of examples where our business is where that you might say are in higher cost operating regions.
In fact continued to deliver exceptional profitability and have a real competitive advantage because of their cost structures despite their regional positions.
So I think we feel pretty good about where we are.
That’s very fair.
And just a follow-up question on free cash flow.
What should we expect for FY ‘15 versus $3.2 billion you did in ’14 or if you want to talk about cash flow realization? It is our early year.
We are very pleased with the way we ended the year in terms of free cash flow.
So I think we would be in the sort of zone here.
Again we have got a benefit in ’14 given our cash tax rate was fair amount lower than our actual provision for the year.
It’s probably too early to kind of make a call on that where we stand right now.
But relatively flat is a good sort of hold for now in the mind.
I think that’s a good starting point.
Thank you so much.
Thanks Andrew And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the question-and-answer session of today's program.
I’d now like turn the program back over to Matt Gugino for any closing remarks.
Thanks Aaron.
We’ll be around all day for questions.
Thanks for joining us everyone.
This does conclude today's program.
You may disconnect at any time.
My name is Lisa and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent background noise.
After the speaker's remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Matt Gugino Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Gugino you may now begin your conference.
Thanks Lisa.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
On the call today are Tom Joyce our President and Chief Executive Officer and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call our first quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciliation and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available on the Investor Section of our Web site www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investor Section of our Web site later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until April 30 2015.
The replay number is 888-203-1112 within the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and a confirmation code is 658-8001.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
The supplemental materials in our first quarter Form 10-Q describe additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Unless otherwise noted all references in these remarks and supplemental materials to earnings revenues and other company specific financial metrics relate to the first quarter of 2015 relate only to the continuing operation of Danaher's business and all records is period-to-period increases or decreases in financial metrics are year-over-year.
During the call we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal Securities Laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe are anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings and the actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
We were pleased by our solid start to 2015.
The team executed well in a changing and challenging macro environment using the Danaher Business System to drive strong organic revenue growth and expand core margins in the quarter.
DBS continues to enhance our competitive position and drive share gains across the portfolio by helping us identify direct and execute on high impact investments in product innovation and sales and marketing.
As a result seven of our nine strategic platforms grew at a mid-single-digit rate or better in the quarter including test and measurement instruments water quality Gilbarco Veeder-Root Diagnostics Life Sciences Product ID and Automation.
We were also encouraged by the noticeable impact DBS has already made on many of our recent acquisitions including Nobel Biocare Devicor and Aguasin that further boosted our performance.
This is another record first quarter for Danaher adjusted diluted net earnings per share was $0.93 including a negative $0.02 impact from the strengthening U.S.
dollar versus our previously communicated guidance in January.
Revenues for the quarter grew 4.5% to $4.9 billion with core revenues up 5% due in part to extra selling days in the quarter.
This growth exceeded our expectations and marks our best quarterly core growth performance since 2011.
Acquisitions contributed 6% to revenues while currency translation negatively impacted revenues by 6.5%.
Geographically the high-growth markets grew mid-single digits but performance was mixed as strength in China and India was offset by weakness in Russia and Latin America.
In China sales increased nearly 10% led by our dental diagnostics and Gilbarco Veeder-Root platforms.
The developed market also grew at a mid-single-digit rate with both the U.S.
and Europe up mid-single digits.
In Japan as expected sales declined double digits due to a difficult prior-year comparison in which customers accelerated purchases ahead of the VAT increase on April 1 2014.
Gross margin increased 80 basis points to 53.4% marking the first time our gross margins have exceeded 53%.
Core operating margin expanded 25 basis points or approximately 60 basis points excluding the impact of foreign currency.
With three of our five segments improving more than 110 basis points.
Our reported operating margin was 15.9%.
On the capital allocation front M&amp;A remains our primary focus.
We deployed approximately $500 million on three bolt-on acquisitions in the first quarter including the acquisition of the Siemens Microbiology business.
These acquisitions strengthened our market positions in our dental diagnostics and Product ID platforms.
In February we also increased our annual dividend by 35% to $0.54 per share and we expect further increases over time.
Our tremendous balance sheet and active acquisition funnel combined with recent volatility in the global volatility markets uniquely positions us to deploy our substantial M&amp;A capacity.
Turning to our five operating segments.
Test and measurement revenues declined 1.5% with core revenues up 2.5%.
Reported operating margin decreased 220 basis points and core operating margin declined 225 basis points largely due to lower sales in our higher gross margin communications platform.
Core revenues in our instruments platform grew mid-single digits for the second consecutive quarter led by the developed markets and China.
Fluke core revenues were up high single digits as it's biomedical and tomography product lines each increased double digits.
Strengthen in tomography was augmented by the launch of the TiX560 and TiX520 series of thermal imaging cameras during the quarter.
This expert series combines in articulating lens on camera analytics and the industries largest responsive LCD touch screen allowing mechanical engineers to navigate over under and around objects to quickly capture process and process the highest quality infrared images on the spot.
At Tektronix our core revenues increased at a mid single-digit rate for the second consecutive quarter.
Healthy demand for military and government customers in North America was coupled with strength in the semiconductor segment in China.
During the quarter Tektronix introduced new type of high-performance ATI oscilloscope the DPO70000SX.
The DPO offers the most accurate real-time performance and highest analog bandwidth on the market.
It combines patented signal capturing technology compact design and highly scalable architecture to help reduce noise and distortion so electrical engineers can better understand and solve their most common complex problems.
Core revenues from our communications platform decreased at a double-digit rate.
Double-digit growth in security solutions and high single-digit growth at Fluke Networks was more than offset by a decline in network management solutions.
Platform orders grew over 20% in the quarter which gives us confidence that we will achieve positive core growth in 2015.
We continue to expect the combination of our communications business with NetScout to close in mid-2015 and this morning we announced that NetScout has received clearance from the U.S.
Department of Justice with respect to the proposed transaction.
Close is subject to approval by NetScout shareholders and other customary closing conditions.
Moving to our environmental segment revenues increased 7% with core revenues up 8.5%.
Core operating margin expanded 175 basis points while reported operating margin was up 60 basis points to 19.5%.
Our water quality platforms core revenues grew approximately 10% with robust growth in our analytical instrumentation chemical treatment and ultraviolet treatment businesses.
Hach had an outstanding quarter with growth across most major product lines.
Sales in the U.S.
and Europe grew double digits as the team's application of DBS growth tools such as funnel management and transformative marketing continued to drive share gains.
We've built on this momentum by launching our breakthrough water quality testing system the SL1000 Portable Parallel Analyzer or PPA in over 40 countries.
Notably the PPA's ease-of-use has a ready started to change the way our customers perform critical water quality tests making it one of the most important new products in the market.
At ChemTreat we saw a robust demand for our chemical treatment solutions and services in both North America and Latin America.
ChemTreat's consistently strong performance is a direct result of its targeted investment in Feet-on-the-Street and development of its best-in-class sales force.
The ChemTreat team has done a fantastic job implementing this approach in Latin America with its most recent acquisition Aguasin which grew more than 20% in the quarter.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root crew midfielder gets driven by strength in China and the U.S.
In U.S.
upcoming EMV regulation changes drove over 20% growth in point-of-sale solutions and dispensers.
We're pleased that customers have continued to make Gilbarco their supplier of choice when implementing these necessary payment system upgrades.
Turning now to Life Sciences and Diagnostics.
Revenues grew 2% with core revenues up 5%.
Core operating margin expanded 115 basis points and reported operating margin was 12.7% which was negatively impacted by one-time non-cash charges related to the recently closed acquisitions of Devicor and the Siemens Microbiology business which is now known as Beckman Coulter MicroScan.
Core revenues in our diagnostics platform grew at a mid-single-digit rate.
At Beckman Coulter diagnostics core sales were up mid-single digits led by double-digit growth in our immunoassay and urinalysis product lines.
In the U.S.
increasing customer utilization and higher win and retention rates help drive mid single-digit growth for the third consecutive quarter.
This improvement in win and retention rates is as an example of the team's persistent focus on product innovation and enhancing the customer experience over the past 3plus years.
Beckman Coulter is a fantastic example of how thoughtful application of DBS growth lean and leadership tools can make a good company even better.
We hope you'll join us in Vallejo California for our Investor and Analyst event in June to hear more of this terrific story.
In January Beckman closed the previously announced acquisition of MicroScan.
MicroScan expands our well-established footprint in hospitals and reference labs with a suite of highly accurate automated instruments and consumables that help identify infection causing bacteria and determine appropriate antibiotic treatments.
Radiometer's core sales increased high single digits its13th consecutive quarter of high single-digit growth or better.
Demand was solid across all product lines led by double-digit growth in blood gas and AQT consumables.
During the quarter we expanded our AQT testing menu in Europe with the launch of procalcitonin assay or PCT.
PCT detects life-threatening sepsis infections on site in operating rooms and other critical care centers enabling doctors to provide timely antibiotic treatments and ultimately save more lives.
Sales at Leica Biosystems were up high single digits led by Advanced Staining which grew over 20% in the quarter.
We posted double-digit growth in the U.S.
where the stabilizing reimbursement environment resulted in improved capital spending.
We were also encouraged by a strong start at Devicor an acquisition we closed last December where reinvigorated product portfolio and implementation of DBS tools helps to drive approximately 10% growth in the quarter.
Core sales in our Life Science platform increased mid-single digits with solid performance in the U.S.
and Europe.
Notably we saw China sales return to growth in the quarter.
SCIEX score sales grew double digits led by strength in clinical and applied end markets.
Strong commercial execution and investments in new products have resulted in meaningful share gains over the past several quarters.
Leica Microsystems core sales declined mid-single digits due to impart to a difficult comparison in Japan where we saw a record shipments ahead of last year's VAT increase.
Despite the sales decline we are confident in Leica steady stream of new product innovation including the DMi8 inverted microscope platform that launched during the quarter.
The DMi8 improves customer workflow for industrial applications by enabling users to prepare and change samples more quickly than with traditional microscopes.
It also features a configurable design providing one solution for both basic and advanced industrial users.
Turning to Dental; our dental revenue increased 30% with core revenues down slightly due in part to lower volumes related to inventory destocking within our U.S.
distribution channels.
This occurred across many of our higher-margin product lines and combined with our continued investments in sales and marketing and product development resulted in a 385 basis point core operating margin decline.
Robust demand in high growth markets and strength in our orthodontic and value implant solutions were more than offset by the previously mentioned inventory destocking.
That said we are encouraged by improving sellout data we're seeing in the U.S.
market and believe the business will show improving growth trends throughout the course of the year.
Nobel Biocare completed his first full quarter with Danaher and we've made great progress so far while it's still early we were encouraged by Nobel's mid-single digit average daily sales growth for the quarter.
One of Danaher's core values innovation defines our future certainly rang true at the Biannual International Dental Show in March where KaVo Kerr Group and Nobel Biocare launched much more than 35 new or updated products.
The innovations unveiled ran the full spectrum of dental care from digital imaging to treatment units to consumables.
Notably attendees were able to preview our first integrated Chairside CAD/CAM solution which will allow dentists to design and manufacture custom prosthetics quickly and easily in their offices.
In Industrial Technologies revenues declined 2.5% with core revenues up 7%.
Our core operating margin expanded 185 basis points while reported operating margin increased 210 basis points to 24.6%.
Automation core revenues increased mid-single digits as continued growth in our industrial automation North American distribution and medical end markets was partially offset by weakness in agriculture.
This represents the platform's best quarterly performance since early 2011.
Product Identification core revenues increased high single digits with robust demand for our marking and coding color management and software solutions.
Videojet had a solid start to the year delivering high single-digit growth as our substantial and growing installed base continues to drive broad share gains.
The team delivered mid-single-digit growth or better in all major geographies with particular strength in Western Europe China and India.
During the quarter Videojet launched its 1620 and1650 high-resolution micro-printers that enable fast high-quality printing on very small surfaces.
This technology is essential in such industries as electronics and personal care where legibility and clarity are critical because consumer safety and industry regulations.
In March Esko acquired MediaBeacon a leader in digital asset management software.
MediaBeacon saves our customers time and money by allowing them to store repurpose and share their digital media efficiently across projects departments and channels.
Bringing together these specialized companies equips us better to serve our global network of customers and meet a growing industry demand for more integrated packaging and artwork management tools.
So to wrap up we had a very good start to 2015 delivering our highest quarter of core revenue growth since 2011.
The team's solid execution using Danaher business system continued to drive relative out-performance and enhanced our competitive position.
We remain cognizant of a strengthening U.S.
dollar and a changing macro environment.
However we're confident that our focus on optimizing our portfolio and seizing high-impact growth opportunities will help us build a better stronger Danaher in 2015 and the years to come.
We're initiating second quarter adjusted diluted net earnings per share guidance of $1.01 to $1.05 which assumes core revenue growth of 3% to 4%.
We are also updating our full-year 2015 adjusted diluted net earnings per share guidance to the range of $4.23 to $4.33.
We expect the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar since our fourth quarter earnings release in January to reduce 2015 earnings by approximately $0.07 per share.
We continue to expect core revenue growth between 3% and 4% for the full year 2015.
Thanks Tom.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Lisa we're now ready for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Scott Davis of Barclays.
Good morning Scott.
And ask a little of FX and I think we understand the impact of translation I think most people do at least for the group overall but what does that FX really mean for you guys as it relates to global competition does it change how you think about where you produce and where you ship out over there is a change or impact of price dynamic at all or is it really not much of an impact? Well Scott I guess we first start and think about FX from a competitive perspective.
And it's hard not to think the competitive dynamics shift a little bit in certain markets where the U.S.
dollar has strengthened against that local currency.
That being said let's take Europe for example.
We continue to perform exceptionally well there we have during the entire shift of the currency we have seen solid mid-single-digit growth in that market.
We know that market generally across a number of our businesses is probably more of a low single-digit market on a core growth business.
And so we're continuing to perform exceptionally well and taking share there.
You can look at Japan as another example where those ships have happened and certainly there has been some modest shifts in the competitive dynamics there but again our businesses generally in spite of a very challenging environment there.
Overall we haven't seen really any meaningful shifts in the competitive dynamics and we're continuing to perform well.
So we start there and think about competitiveness.
Relative to the overall operational footprint we're going to see currencies move up and we are going to see currencies move down it takes quite a while to shift your manufacturing footprint.
And the day you think you got that right is a day of currency might turn against you and you end up in a very different place than you would hope.
So in general over a long period of time we've had a balanced footprint that is provided a certain level of natural hedge for us.
Obviously the shifts here have been far more dramatic and therefore the impacts have read through -- through the P&amp;L.
So we continue to put ourselves in the best position possible from an operational footprint putting manufacturing operations in in the best costs positions that we can with the best logistics and supply chains.
But these shifts do not cause any knee-jerk reactions on our part in terms of a repositioning.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just as a follow-up on dental.
I guess I don't remember a time were you had I'm going to call it flattish core growth where you saw it looks like in the slides core margins down 385 bps was that just a mixed impact of the higher margin step being destocked or is there some other step in there like restructuring or anything else.
It really starts with the volume itself.
And that volume being slightly up in one side of the business slightly down in another side of the business but generally it starts with that volume position and then the destocking yes in fact was the primary driver relative to the higher-margin products being the areas where we very cooperatively and teaming with our distribution channels made very conscious decision about what we needed to do in the channel from an inventory perspective.
I think what's really important to recognize about that situation is that we track sellout very very closely with those distribution partners.
And we are very encouraged by what we see from a sellout perspective.
So we're confident in our competitive positions we understand that we are performing well those distribution partnerships are working very effectively.
This has been going on for a period of time now.
We think we're getting towards the end of that.
Q2 is probably more of a transition quarter and we are optimistic that we will see better growth going forward.
But back to your question around the margins it's really that combination of volume and negative mix.
Now one last point there because we're confident in our competitive position because in a number of areas particularly outside the U.S.
the dental platform is performing extremely well driving anywhere from mid-single digit in certain markets like China growing double digit.
We continue to invest in that business.
Investing in new products you heard me talk about the 35 new products across the platform.
Investing in sales and marketing so while we've got some headwind there in terms of doing the right things relative to the channel we're confident that those investments are going to pay off as time goes on.
Okay.
Great answer.
Thanks guys I will pass it on.
Thanks Scott.
And we will go next to Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Can we get more into the specs of the TiBX thermal imaging camera for a second.
I love the high hard ones.
On the R&amp;D and SG&amp;A both up in the quarter.
Was there some little bit of a discretionary loading if you saw the organic growth come through there or is that just kind of normal course? Steve I would say that we set a course to continue to invest in the highest impact opportunities that we saw from a product development standpoint as well as from a go-to-market standpoint.
So we set that course quite a while ago.
We had terrific reviews last fall in our strategic plan reviews.
I think we got a good sense of where those opportunities were.
And I think on a discretionary basis we made the call in a number of places where we knew we were doing well we knew that as things got choppy continuing to invest and stay the course would ultimately prove out to our benefit on a long-term basis.
I think one of the areas I'd point to specifically to that staying that course would be in Europe.
Again where we've seen the slower growth environment and where we've continued to perform above market rates in most of our businesses and that's largely a function of staying the course from an investment standpoint.
It's true today also in our high-growth markets were we have seen a few of our markets on site specifically Latin America specifically Brazil and Mexico where we've got some challenges there but we're continuing to stay the course from an investment standpoint.
But also making some thoughtful decisions about shifting investments carefully where there is higher growth opportunities and there's some countries right now in Latin America where the teams are doing a terrific job shifting that investment.
Stay in the course in China right now as well staying the course in India from an investment standpoint both of those countries paying off very well for us across a number of platforms.
So staying the course making some discretionary choices even when the temptation is to pull back hard to make sure we take advantage of what's choppy environment.
And so I guess on that I'm getting to something in a range of 25% to 30% core incremental for the quarter which usually you guys is more like 35% to 40% I mean should that migrate higher over the course of the year or are we in kind of are we in a straight off now where organic growth is going to be higher maybe we should expect a little bit lower incremental? Steve I think there are a couple of things going on some of which Tom alluded to where we are confident we're taking share we want to sustain those investments.
I think the second element is we're having pretty high fall through on the FX hit.
We talked about the fall through on FX has been closer to 22% to 23% so we are feeling some impact on that.
But I think it's a combination but as we went through the quarter and saw the strength we saw some opportunity to step up some of the investments.
And we will navigate that carefully but if we're in this mode of outperforming vis-à-vis competition we probably going to take a little more latitude on investors.
Okay.
And day sales impact on the quarter that's my final one.
Thanks.
And probably I think the five is probably closer to a four when you look at days adjusted which again would be consistent with what we put up in Q4.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Steve.
And we will next to Steven Winoker with Bernstein.
Thanks.
And good morning all.
Good morning Steve.
Yes.
I have no thermal camera imaging questions you can't top that.
So let's see just -- I think from a high level here stepping back for a second this is another quarter of solid core growth you guys have been putting us up and talking about gaining share quarter-after-quarter for a long period of time now.
And I'm just trying to get a sense going forward as of the business model and the extent to which that in these higher gross margins you think are sustainable or a function more of the cyclical markets think you're in a new norm at this point? How are you looking at that Tom and Dan? Steve I think we do think that the trajectory that we are on is sustainable.
Clearly we're in some challenging macroeconomic times here.
But again we feel like the investments that we're making in the right places are driving core growth in a number of our businesses and translating into those share gains.
And those are also businesses where we have a got – where we do have good gross margins and we always look at those gross margins and the improvement of those gross margins as indicative of higher value propositions that we're delivering to our customers those are sometimes value propositions associated with new product innovation; sometimes they're associated with improvements in our technical service and support our ability to get price across a number of our markets.
So this is the model of the Danaher that we are working on building quarter-after-quarter and year-after-year.
So that's the way we tend to think about it.
And I'll extend that by the way to the way we think about capital allocation is looking at businesses and opportunities in the market that represent those same characteristics.
Good growth opportunities across global markets.
High brand preference to professional and users representing solid gross margins and the ability to build sustainable business models with strong consumable streams that really speak to a level of resilience and ultimately competitive advantage.
So that's the playbook.
Okay.
And then let me ask the obligatory M&amp;A question following your capital deployment point which is a little bit different though this time right we are hearing commentary from other CEOs on how pricey they view the current environment.
So how are you thinking about that how is your outlook changing if at all? I don't know that our outlook has changed very much Steve over the last couple of quarters.
Clearly outstanding businesses with a number of the characteristics that I mentioned just a few minutes ago are our assets that are well-valued in the marketplace.
And those assets while highly valued tend to be outstanding businesses with great long-term opportunities for growth.
So I'm not sure we've seen much change in that but we continue to be very encouraged by the conversations we're having and the funnels that we have across the businesses we have made some progress here in the first quarter deploying $0.5 billion and we are optimistic about more to come.
Okay.
Great.
See you in Brea.
Thanks.
Thank Steve.
Thanks Steve.
And we will go next to Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Nigel.
Yes.
I just want to come back to the dental destock.
Inventory movements are something we've heard from other companies.
It doesn't feel like it was elsewhere but did you see any of that dynamic elsewhere across the portfolio.
Nigel I can't think of – not to suggest there couldn't be a pocket here or there but in general anything material across any of the other segments I would say no.
We're not hearing much of anything in that regard.
Okay.
And I just want to pick up on Steve's points on capital allocation rather than thermal imaging.
You mentioned in the prepared remarks the ambition to keep raising dividends and is that an ambition to raise a dividend payout ratio or dividend in line with earnings.
Nigel I think the expectation that we would in the intermediate term continue to raise it faster than overall earnings and cash flow growth.
But that's not within expectation of sort of getting to a market yield but getting to a more meaningful yield.
Okay.
And you have a target payout ratio over time? Well I mean if you think of the market 2% to 2.5% may be if we were half of that in time 3 to 5 years that might not be a bad place to be.
Okay great.
And then just finally congratulations on the news on the NetScout transaction this morning.
Is the impact of that transaction built into – I know it's not built into organic growth guidance but is it baked into your EPS outlook and how do you expect the EPS impact of that transaction to play out? Nigel first of all very good news I mean that really is the long pole in the tent to get to closing still some other a few other things we need to get through but it's much more common today that we get to a close here early in the summer.
It is not factored in.
A lot of that will depend ultimately whether we do a spin or a split.
Based where their stock is trading today if we did a split on an annual basis it would approximately wash.
So the earnings we would get – we would give up there would reduce our share count and would be roughly an equal offset.
Now that may impact first half second half but an annual basis would be roughly a full offset.
And core growth accretive by about 50 bps in the second half of the year? Thanks.
While as we mentioned orders are very good in the communications business in the first quarter and the last couple of quarters quarters are up 20%.
So I don't think it necessarily will be accretive to revenue growth in the back half it would be accretive in the first half on a pro forma basis but wouldn't expect that to impact the second half of that business is definitely building.
Okay.
Very good.
Thanks Dan.
We will go next to Shannon O'Callaghan with UBS.
Good morning guys.
Hi Shannon.
Hey could you talk a little bit more about what you're seeing in the mix between equipment and consumable growth? And then on the equipment side specifically you talked about the product innovation sales and marketing clearly you are getting some share in some places but it seems like other guys are also struggling just with customers' willingness to spend right now.
And it seems like you're overcoming that can you just maybe give a little sense of what you're hearing from customers as you're having more success getting them to step up and buy.
Shannon we're very encouraged by what we see in the balance of growth both in the equipment and the consumable side.
Both of those – both sides have posting good growth.
That obviously bodes well for continued performance because as we build that install base across the number of the businesses those annuities streams that accrue to the consumables business obviously are very important to the resiliency of the business model and also to margins.
Relative to your question about customers willing to spend in CapEx I would say we have a number of examples where even in challenging markets our teams are performing quite well and seeing great penetrations in terms of the installed base I would point to the Videojet business and the performance there.
The continued growth of that installed base in the consumable stream.
Clearly what we've seen on the diagnostic side a little bit more favorable environment in terms of diagnostic utilization.
The macro indicators around the healthcare market are improving marginally quarter-over-quarter.
So we're seeing a little bit of loosening in capital spent in hospital environment.
As I mentioned we saw the first quarter returning to growth in Life Science in China which is also encouraging that's more of an equipment market than a consumables market.
So I think there's a number of places we point to where we're seeing our teams execute extremely well in gaining share driving and installed base without necessarily strong tailwinds from market perspectives.
And Shannon we were in the quarter equipment we were up mid-single-digit which was the best quarter we've had in equipment we probably have to go back maybe almost 2011.
Interesting.
All right thanks.
And then maybe just a follow-up on CID so Videojet clearly still gaining from share but overall that market actually just seems like one of the better places to be right now.
Is there – are there certain verticals that are particularly good there or favorable things you're seeing in the overall market.
I think Videojet has performed pretty well across a number of their verticals.
When you look at – for the food market when we look at the beverage market broadly defined packaging overall clearly a very competitive market but one where the Videojet team both through a combination of product innovation and a number of improvements using DBS growth tools have driven an enhanced go-to-market model.
There clearly gaining share.
And they have over an extended period of time.
If we look back really through the cycle VJ has continued to perform above the market growth rates on a consistent basis and again a combination of product innovation and go-to-market execution really has contributed there.
But yes I think to the vertical end markets they are good steady verticals and VJ is taking advantage of those.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
We will go next to Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Thank you.
Hi Julian.
Hi.
I just wanted to follow-up on your comments beginning a changing macro environment because your tone across the businesses sounds pretty good.
So I just wondered if you're seeing that changing macro play into your own orders today in parts of T&amp;M or industrial tech.
And maybe just any color on how sort of in recent months you've seen the short cycle industrial demand moving.
Sure.
I think when we talk about the macro it's probably easiest to articulate that Julian on a geographic basis.
And some of the changes that we've seen have clearly been in Latin America for one where we have seen some significant weakening in that market.
Clearly Russia again a much smaller position fortunately for us but a challenging market there.
China while still a very good market we are performing quite well in that market.
You've obviously read the headlines about a little bit of softening there from GDP growth rates of the past.
So we see those shift on the other side we've seen some geographic markets improve.
India being one again teams performing quite well there.
So I think that's one way to look at it.
Europe is still steady but again we think we are outperforming in that market.
So I think those would be a few of the things that we would point to.
On the short cycle industrial side really Dan – Daniels teams a number of those businesses automation we talked to a little while ago really are performing very well.
And that's really just a function again of I think a combination of new product innovation in a number of places as well as is good day today go-to-market execution.
And Julian I would add – just you asked about very recently.
I think similar to some other companies we did seeing some pockets in March in the U.S.
particularly in the U.S.
in the equipment a little bit of softness it's hard to tell if it's any trend through the first half of April we are pretty much in line here.
But if there was any slight shift here in the last 4 to 6 weeks I would say the U.S.
equipment piece is slightly weaker.
Great.
And then just my second question around the sort of relative appeal of valuations for acquisition in the healthcare and sort of non-healthcare sides of the business.
Particularly I guess with regards to industrial tech was certainly on organic growth you see on a much more stronger footing today how you seeing evaluations in that arena and is that area somewhat more attractive now because we've got the core really firing again.
Julian its overall pretty balanced as Tom alluded to nothings inexpensive right now.
But there are some good assets out there both on the healthcare on the industrial side that we are active around.
I wouldn't put up a highlight more to one space versus the other.
Great.
Thank you.
We will go next to Richard Eastman with Robert W.
Baird.
Yes.
Good morning.
Hey Rich.
Can I just – Tom could you just double back for a second on the dental business I'm curious within North America with the destocking phenomenon that you saw here in the quarter given consumer incomes up and disposable personal income is up and spending is up.
I'm curious is there anything structural in North America on the dental side of your business that's creating the destock and maybe you could share with us just with the sell-through stats are that you are watching.
Rich I would not say there's anything structural about our business or our position relative to the North American market.
We would agree that the market is improving marginally based on a couple of the things you mentioned around consumer spending and discretionary income and so on.
This is more a cooperative agreement with our distribution partners where we've – where we're working with them to ensure the channels are right-sized from an inventory perspective.
From a sell-through perspective we see mid-single-digit are moving from low single-digit to the lower end of mid-single-digit kind of sell-through coming out of the channels to the end user.
So and we know that based on how our products are performing specifically as well as how the categories are improving.
So that reinforces our belief that we are well-positioned and that there's nothing structurally going against us in terms of our position in the market.
Okay.
And then just a quick question for Dan as a follow-up.
It appears to me we do some discount basic math against the TechComms NetScout transaction as its pending and given NetScout's stock price and may be TechComms EBIT as it finished the year in 2014 is there a scenario where this plays out that that transaction and the buyback given NetScout valuation here that buyback of Danaher shares that that's actually accretive to EPS? Because it looks like you could use a math that would show maybe $0.10 accretion from that transaction.
Rick if you look backwards if we would've closed the deal given the respective stock prices are today and we did a split looking backwards it would be accretive.
But because of the building backlog in order book if I look over the next 12 months it would be about a wash.
Okay.
We are going to be – we were down double-digit Q4 down to double-digit Q1 we expect better performance probably getting to around flat here in the second quarter but given what we are seeing in the order book and the backlog we expect growth in the back half year when you factor that in it changes the economics and the buyback a little bit.
Okay.
I see.
Okay all right.
Well thank you.
Thanks Rich.
And we will go next to Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning guys.
Thank you.
Question about Europe.
I think you guys said that it had mid-single-digit growth in that region and it's slightly outpaced the end market growth like-for-like.
So I was curious if you could maybe give us a little color as to where you think the implied share gains are happening.
Thanks Isaac.
They're coming in a number of places.
Clearly in our environmental segment performance at Hach would be one of the places that would we point to that's done an excellent job.
Again a continued focus on investment in that market both in terms of new products as well as in terms of Feet-on-the-Street.
I think a good example there also of approaching those investments across multiple verticals are end markets.
So strength in both the municipal side and interesting particularly on the industrial side.
So I think good performance there.
The PID business particularly Videojet I think continuing to perform well there.
So it's fairly broad based.
Got it.
Okay.
And then just may be a bit more of an open ended question on capital allocation.
Just sort of curious if you could talk to the extent that your deal funnel has evolved since you took over in the last fall any things you could really highlight to help us appreciate how you are looking at acquisitions going forward just general themes that might help us appreciate what you're doing.
Sure.
I think what we are really trying to do Isaac as we look at markets and companies in those markets platform by platform is ensure that we are looking for the best opportunities to strengthen our existing platforms strategically.
I mentioned when we were together in December that we are much more focused on the existing five segments and nine strategic platforms as they exist today and going deeper into those individual segments strengthening each of them in terms of their competitive positions as opposed to going wider to the right or to the left.
So I think that's probably the primary focus that we have across each of the platforms is looking for the best opportunities to strengthen our positions in the markets in which we participate today.
You see a couple of examples there recently right? You look at Siemens micro how that strengthened our position at Beckman.
If you look at Devicor how that strengthened our position in the workflow of anatomical pathology.
Most recently MediaBeacon in our PID platform and the way that strengthened the value proposition of managing digital assets to brand owners all good examples of strengthening a competitive position in the places we play today.
Got it.
Thanks a bunch.
Thanks Isaac.
And we will go next to Andrew Obin with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Yes.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Andrew.
Just a question on environmental.
Could you just talk a little bit more detail core growth was just really strong.
How much of it was end market dynamics and how much of it was you guys just taking market share or putting new products into the market.
Well particularly and water quality where were up almost double-digit.
It's very hard to think the market is growing more than 3% to 5%.
As Tom alluded to we were exceptionally strong in Europe up over double-digit.
Again at least for the quarter that would probably be at least 2X what the market grew in that quarter.
Got you.
And as I look at Life Science and Diagnostics once again core growth just seems to accelerate.
Why would can you talk about the momentum until the second quarter and second half of the year particularly it seems U.S.
consumer is improving with lower energy prices or at least it should improve.
Why would core growth slow down into the second half during given those fundamentals and given that Beckman Coulter has very nice momentum at this point.
Andrew I'm not sure we're suggesting much of a slowdown we were a little bit over 5% and as we said in December and January 3% to 4% of the year that segment could be more in that 4% to 5% range.
Got you.
But what I'm saying is why sorry just to rephrase.
It just seems that 5% could be sustainable or better given the consumer trend and given Beckman Coulter finally executing quite well.
That's what I don't -- We are certainly on a good trajectory there.
It is also probably important just to know quickly that there was an impact of days here in the first quarter we have a high proportion of certainly the diagnostic business that is represented on the consumable side of the house and the consumable side of the house is where you get a little bit more of the bump on a days basis.
So there's a little bit of a factor there Andrew as well.
Got you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And it appears we have time for one more question.
We will go to our last question from Brandon Couillard with Jefferies.
Thanks good morning.
Hi Brandon Tom with respect to the Life Science business in China could you quantify the growth in the period.
And perhaps peel back the onion in terms of where you saw the strength and do you feel like the research budget is particularly around high-end instrumentation are maybe starting to loosening up a little bit? Thanks Brandon.
We saw a mid-single-digit growth in China and Life Science.
Again the first really good signs of life there in terms of growth in the last few quarters.
So we are encouraged by that.
I think we've reached a point of probably stability there a lot of what the government has done relative to the scrutiny that they applied around tenders.
We think is sort of now reached a kind of a level set or a steady-state in the market.
There is we believe a little bit of a lift in spending overall as well.
We are in the last year of the 12th fifth year plan.
And usually you get a little bit of a bump from a spending standpoint in that regard.
And in general as we said for a long time now we really believe quite strongly in the structural drivers of that market that there will be continued investment over time in the Chinese market in Life Sciences.
And we've seen a number of examples of where the government maintains a consistent outlook that that's an important segment for investment.
As our number of other segments that where we are well-positioned like in environmental like in different segments of healthcare and diagnostics as well as in dental.
So we think if we were to choose some segments in China where the government spending is likely to continue to be a focus we think we've chosen those that are probably best positioned.
Super.
Thank you.
Thank you Brandon.
And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I will turn the conference back to Matt Gugino for any closing or additional remarks.
Thanks for joining us everyone we are around all day for questions.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Please stand by we're about to begin.
Good morning.
My name is Lynette and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Matt Gugino Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Gugino you may begin your conference.
Thanks Lynette.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call.
With us today are Tom Joyce our President and Chief Executive Officer and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release a slide presentation supplementing today's call our second quarter Form 10-Q and the reconciliations and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investor section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investor section of our website later today under the heading Investor Events and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until July 30 2015.
The replay number is 888-203-1112 within the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and the confirmation code is 1995288.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
The supplemental materials in our second quarter Form 10-Q describe additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Unless otherwise noted all references in these remarks and supplemental materials to company-specific financial metrics related to the second quarter of 2015 and all references to period-to-period increases or decreases in the financial metrics are year-over-year.
During the call we'll make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings and the actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Tom.
Thanks Matt and good morning.
This was a busy and exciting quarter for Danaher.
Our team executed well using the Danaher business system to deliver solid core revenue growth excellent margin expansion strong cash flow and earnings outperformance.
In May we also announced the acquisition of Pall Corporation the largest in our history and are intent to separate Danaher into two independent publicly traded companies.
Before moving to the details of the quarter let me provide a quick update on these two big announcements.
First on Pall.
The transaction's progressing well.
We've received U.S.
antitrust regulatory approval and anticipate a ruling from the EU next month.
We're also making great progress on the planning front have identified key leadership appointments and look forward to closing the transaction later this year.
On the separation we have a dedicated team working diligently to execute the transaction.
At closing we will have created two strategically focused independent companies each with the ability to pursue meaningful M&amp;A.
We believe these companies will be better and stronger separately than they are together and generate substantial long-term value for our shareholders.
We look forward to sharing more details on the progress of both of these transactions in the weeks and months ahead.
With that let's move to the details of the quarter.
Today we reported another record second quarter for Danaher.
Adjusted diluted net earnings per share were up approximately 5% to $1.08.
Reported revenue grew 3.5% to $5.1 billion while core revenues also increased 3.5%.
Acquisitions increased our revenue by 6.5% while currency translation was a 6.5% headwind.
Geographically we saw mid-single-digit growth across the U.S.
Europe and the high-growth markets.
In the high-growth markets strength in China and the Middle East was offset by weakness in Brazil and Russia.
Some of our smaller developed markets including Japan experienced more modest growth.
Second-quarter gross margin expanded 100 basis points to an all-time high of 53.8%.
This increase in gross profit and our continued G&amp;A leverage allowed us to accelerate our investments in sales and marketing and R&amp;D while still improving core operating margin by 80 basis points.
In turn we believe these investments help drive share gains at Fluke Hach Radiometer Leica Biosystems SCIEX Nobel Biocare and Videojet among others.
Free cash flow for the quarter was $955 million up 13% from last year and our free cash flow to net income conversion ratio was 137%.
We had a busy quarter on the capital allocation front.
We announced not only the Pall deal but also five bolt-on acquisitions for approximately $100 million that strengthen our competitive positions across a number of markets.
In the near term we expect to remain active on the acquisition front with a focus on strengthening our existing businesses via small and mid-sized transactions.
Turning now to our five operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement revenue declined 1.5% while core revenue increased 2.5%.
Both reported and core operating margin increased 70 basis points to 19.1%.
Our instrument platform core revenue increased low single digits.
At Fluke core revenue grew at a mid-single-digit rate for the fourth consecutive quarter.
Demand was strongest in our calibration and biomedical businesses each of which grew double digits.
During the quarter we launched our Fluke Connect Asset System to increase the functionality of Fluke Connect our collection of wireless enabled test tools and analytics software.
The Fluke Connect Assets app gives maintenance engineers the power of a complete view of all the equipment in their facilities including baseline historical and current measurement data in one virtual location.
This makes predictive and condition-based maintenance even easier for our customers.
Since its launch last year Fluke Connect hardware has exceeded our expectations with almost $50 million in sales and 45 000 software downloads.
Tektronix core revenue was up slightly as strong demand from technology customers in China and our distribution channel in Europe was offset by weaker demand in Russia and Latin America.
We expect similar core revenue performance in the third quarter.
Core revenue in our communications platform decreased at a low-single-digit rate.
Demand for our securities solutions and network enterprise business was more than offset by a decline in our network management solutions.
Despite the core revenue decline the platform maintained solid order momentum with a book-to-bill ratio of approximately 1.1.
Last week we closed the previously announced combination of our communications business with NetScout.
This is the culmination of a nine-month process in which we brought together two complementary businesses to create one company with extensive global scale and best-in-class solutions to manage and secure the networks of telecom and enterprise customers.
As a result of the transaction our common shares outstanding have been reduced by approximately 26 million.
Before moving on I'd like to take a moment to thank our associates at Arbor FNET and Tek Comms for their hard work during their time at Danaher.
I know I speak for our entire leadership team in wishing them well as they join NetScout.
Moving now to Environmental revenue increased 2% with core revenue up 3%.
Core operating margin expanded 145 basis points while reported operating margin was up 150 basis points to 22.5%.
Our water quality platform's core revenue grew mid-single digits with growth across our analytical instrumentation chemical treatment and ultraviolet treatment businesses.
Hach had a good quarter as mid-single-digit revenue growth in the U.S.
and Europe was augmented by double-digit growth in China.
Strength was broad-based with growth across most major product lines.
In the quarter Hach took steps to strengthen its platform of environmental monitoring solutions with the pending acquisition of Sutron Corporation.
Sutron provides customized monitoring and control solutions that complement Hach's offering in the Hydromet and oceanographic markets.
With this acquisition Hach will have the industry's only end-to-end suite of remote site equipment and systems that are designed for continuous reliable operation in extreme environments.
At ChemTreat new customer wins and continued traction with new products drove growth in all major geographies.
ChemTreat continued to expand its foundation of best-in-class service and sales in Latin America with the acquisition of Lipesa Group a leading provider of industrial water and process treatment solutions in Columbia Brazil Ecuador and Peru.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root core revenue was up low single digits.
Strength in North America and China was partially offset by a decline in payment solutions in Australia where we had a significant project roll out last year.
In the U.S.
future EMB compliance requirements drove double-digit growth in point of sales solutions and dispensers.
We expect strong demand to continue in this area for the next few years.
Turning now to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics sales for the quarter were up 3% while core revenue grew 4.5%.
Core operating margin increased 55 basis points while reported operating margin decreased 30 basis points to 15.5% due primarily to a dilutive effect of recent acquisitions.
Our diagnostics platform delivered mid-single-digit core revenue growth.
At Beckman Coulter core sales grew mid-single-digits with growth in most major product lines.
Demand in high growth markets remained strong with double-digit growth in China and the Middle East.
In Europe we launched our VERIS molecular diagnostic system along with four viral load assays.
The streamlined design of the VERIS system is a breakthrough in workflow simplification and ease of use for our lab customers.
Its sample-in result-out workflow provides test results in only four steps thus requiring minimal training in a market that's experiencing a shortage of skilled operators.
What's more results are generated over two times faster than traditional molecular diagnostic testing methods.
Those of you who attended our analyst day in California last month saw firsthand the tremendous progress we've made at Beckman over the past four years.
Using DBS the Beckman team has worked diligently to reverse the significant quality delivery and service shortcomings that existed at acquisition and has vastly improved the customer experience in this process.
This effort has helped us exceed our cost savings target and more than double operating profit.
Most importantly with these challenges largely behind us Beckman has redeployed resources that have reinvigorated organic and inorganic growth including the acquisitions of IRIS and MicroScan.
We see a number of commonalities between Beckman and Pall and believe we'll be able to run a similar play book at Pall in the coming years.
Turning to Radiometer Radiometer's core revenue increased high-single-digits with growth in all major product lines and geographies.
Demand was particularly healthy at HemoCue where sales grew double digits for the second consecutive quarter.
Since we acquired HemoCue in 2013 we've made significant progress in leveraging Radiometer sales channel to accelerate growth while also expanding operating margins over 1 000 basis points.
Leica Biosystem sales increased at a high-single-digit rate with balanced growth across both developed and high growth markets.
Advanced Staining grew nearly 20% in the quarter as we continue to improve our relative market position.
Devicor the acquisition we closed in late 2014 posted its second consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth.
Our life science platform core revenue increased at a low single digit rate led by double digit in the U.S.
particularly offset or partially offset by a decline in Latin America.
SCIEX core sales grew mid-single-digits driven by strength in the pharma and clinical end markets.
At June's American Society of Mass Spectrometry meeting or ASMS we launched a number of complete workflow solutions including BioBA.
BioBA is an integrated offering for biologics analysis that combines the capabilities of our 6500 QTRAP mass spectrometer with the ExionLC high performance liquid chromatography system.
The system links ready-to-use sample prep kits with lab automation to simplify the bio pharma research workflow enabling researchers to expand their skill sets and improve their productivity.
Leica Microsystems' core revenue decreased low single digits due to weak market conditions in Latin America and in China.
Despite the decline our order growth rate remained positive giving us confidence that Leica will return to growth in the third quarter.
During the quarter Leica closed the acquisition of Bioptigen strengthening its position in the ophthalmology market.
The integration of Bioptigen's advanced optics technology with Leica's surgical microscopes will enable doctors to make better clinical decisions during eye surgery by providing more detailed images of the retina Turning to Dental core sales were up 1% while total revenues increased 30% largely due to our Nobel Biocare acquisition.
Core operating margins declined 25 basis points with reported operating margin down 60 basis points to 14.2%.
Great progress continued at Nobel Biocare as the team delivered another quarter of mid-single-digit average daily sales growth.
Profitability has also improved markedly with the operating margins up over 100 basis points in the first half of 2015 excluding restructuring.
Growth in dental consumables and treatment units were partially offset by a decline in imaging.
While we saw continued destocking in certain areas within our North American distribution channel we're encouraged by the normalization across many of our product lines in the quarter.
We also experienced healthy demand for our instruments in Europe on the back of last quarter's international dental show in Germany.
KaVo's updated master series of hand pieces which provide dental practitioners with exceptional power low vibration and patented access angles for easier patient treatment has been particularly well received and contributed to our overall performance.
Turning to Industrial Technologies.
Revenue increased 5.5% while core revenues were up 4%.
Core operating margin expanded 165 basis points while reported operating margin increased 180 basis points to 25.6%.
Thanks to the team's excellent execution this was the fourth consecutive quarter that the segment's core margin improved over 110 basis points.
Our automation platform's core revenue grew low single digits led by healthy demand from defense and technology customers in North America and project wins in Europe.
Core revenues for product identification increased high single digits.
We saw broad-based strength and believe we continue to gain market share across the business.
Videojet grew high single digits led by healthy demand for equipment and consumables.
Service revenue a key focus area for the team grew double digits for the second consecutive quarter.
Geographically we saw mid-single-digit growth is better across the U.S.
Europe and China.
ESKO core sales improved high-single-digits led by healthy demand for both hardware and software.
And within software demand from brand owners was encouraging with sales up over 30%.
X-Rite had a strong quarter in which demand for our color measurement and standards products drove high-single-digit growth.
So to wrap it up we're very pleased with the significant steps we've taken to enhance our portfolio and look forward to an exciting future for Danaher.
In the midst of change our team's outstanding execution using the Danaher business system helped deliver solid core revenue growth excellent margin expansion strong cash flow and earnings outperformance.
We expect the macro environment to remain a challenge as we move into the second half of 2015 but we're confident that our focus on driving growth and optimizing our portfolio will offer our shareholders substantial value for years to come.
We're initiating third-quarter adjusted diluted net earnings per share guidance of $1 to $1.04 which assumes core growth comparable to the second quarter of 2015.
We're also raising our adjusted diluted net earnings per share guidance for the full year 2015 to $4.25 to $4.33 from $4.23 to $4.33.
As we described in greater detail in this morning's press release our recently divested Communications business will be reclassified to discontinued operations resulting in a $0.03 reduction in adjusted EPS for the first half of 2015.
This reduction is largely offset by our outperformance in the second quarter of 2015.
Excluding our Communications business in both 2014 and 2015 the midpoint of our full-year 2015 guidance would represent high-single-digit year-over-year adjusted EPS growth.
Thanks Tom.
That concludes our formal comments.
Lynette we're now ready for questions.
Thank you.
We'll take your first question from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Hey.
Good morning.
Good morning Steve.
I would say this is not that exciting which is actually pretty good in the context of this environment.
Boring is good.
There's a compliment for you.
That's the best I'm going do.
Thank you.
When – the Pall deal you've got some approvals in tow now.
Any chance you can close this thing a little bit earlier than expected? Steve its Dan.
Clearly we're happy with how we're progressing in terms of the various approvals but again we don't know until we get the last one in.
But there is a decent chance this happens sooner this year.
Okay.
But until we get the last one it's hard to forecast.
Right.
And then in the second half of the year the environment is obviously pretty challenging; 3.5% core growth is good.
Any views on getting ahead of further weakness in any restructuring in the second half of the year? I assume the gain you're going to take that's going to be in disc op so it's not like that'll be used to offset anything but what are your views on restructuring in the context of the current environment? Well Steve we're constantly challenging our teams throughout the course of the year to be looking for opportunities to improve productivity to position themselves better to realign cost structures to align those cost structures to the best growth opportunities.
And that's really been going on throughout the course of this year.
Obviously as we do assess the macro environment we'll figure out whether anything more significant needs to be done.
But I think at the moment the teams are doing a nice job continuing to look for opportunities as the year progresses.
Okay.
And is there anything lastly that gets fundamentally within the businesses gets materially better or worse in the second half? Anything moving around from an organic perspective? I think probably one I'd highlight for you Steve there are probably a few others that I wouldn't bring immediately to mind but maybe a headline would be GVR.
As we see the EMV regulations continue to come closer meaning the outdoor regulations that have a deadline in the end of 2017 the indoor regulations that are currently driving some encouraging performance in our POS related technologies I think those dynamics will continue to improve GVR's performance.
GVR was a little lighter here in the second quarter but I think good year-to-date.
But I think we'd look to see that accelerate in the back half of 2015 and clearly into 2016.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks lot.
Just to name one yeah.
Thanks lot.
Yep thanks Steve.
We'll hear next from Nigel Coe from Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Morning Nigel.
I just want to echo Steve's comments.
Boring is good.
I think this quarter is going to stack up very well versus the pack.
So just wanted to focus a little bit on margin here because I think that was the real swing from 1Q where you had a little bit of softness on FX and conversion this quarter is much much better.
So I wondered maybe if you could talk about whether the impact of FX moderated or whether that was offset by efficiency metrics.
And if I could just then drill into the core Test &amp; Measurement margins outstanding margins.
Looks to be about 24% and change.
That's up you know about 3 points year-over-year.
How sustainable is that and is that driven by mix? Is that restructuring? What's driving that strength? Nigel we're clearly continuing to feel the impact of the FX on our margin.
Until we anniversary the big move in the euro that will continue.
But overall very good cost action fall-through.
One of the dynamics in Q2 our consumable business aftermarket core growth remained very very healthy.
Our equipment business was slightly softer.
I think that's not unlike what we're hearing from a lot of other more equipment-based businesses.
So we actually get a favorable mix from that from a margin perspective.
But the FX impact is still very much there.
Okay.
And then it looks like the 3Q guide it looks like you're forecasting on an apples-to-apples basis a pretty significant sequential decline in margins.
Looks to be like a 17 handle versus a mid-18s this quarter.
Is that the right math? Yeah clearly there's seasonal here.
We're typically down $0.03 or $0.04 on slightly lower revenues Q2 to Q3 and we expect a similar dynamic here.
Okay.
And then finally on the Pall you pre-funded $2.7 billion euros of debt.
The Q mentions CP funding.
Any intention to get ahead further on the pre-funding as you get closer to the close? Well clearly we've done the $3 billion of the euros.
We've set up all the bank facilities to back us up the commercial paper and we'll likely do a U.S.
bond deal as we get closer to closing.
Okay.
Thanks a lot Dan.
Scott Davis from Barclays your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Morning Scott.
Inc.</span></strong> I don't think you mentioned anything about any updated timing of the breakup or any additional details.
Is there any change? I mean you've had a few months to dial that in a little bit I guess.
Well we've had a little bit of time here Scott.
But we're still looking at the same timing that we've spoken to earlier.
We have a team assembled as I mentioned.
Team's gotten to work building action plans.
There is a lot to do.
I think one of the great things that I've seen recently is how the team is applying principles and the practices of DBS to the whole process.
Many of you have seen some of those examples of visual management and project management as you've toured our facilities.
We're applying that same approach here.
And I think as we do that and time progresses here a bit and we understand some of the details in a deeper way we'll look for every opportunity to accelerate that.
The facts of the matter are that the complexities associated with work to do associated with the audits that'll need to be done the filings associated with that.
The associated tax-related work will take time and we're going to do everything we can to accelerate the process.
But it's still early days in defining all those details.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Understood.
And just getting back I think to Steve's question if you look at the deeper cyclicals around the world it almost feels like things are falling apart in front of our eyes.
But you guys don't touch oil and gas or commodities in any real way so you don't see it real time.
But do you worry that we are on the verge of something that's bigger from a recession perspective and you have to start thinking about getting ahead of it now? Is that something you guys consider or do you have enough visibility in your book just to say this is generally not going to touch you? Well Scott I don't know that we have any clearer crystal ball necessarily on the macro environment than a lot of other folks.
I think we feel very good about how well our portfolio is positioned to weather storms in various markets.
Today I think we're certainly cognizant of the headlines.
We've seen the high growth markets become very uneven.
While we're still seeing relative strength and excellent execution in places like China and the Middle East we're very cognizant of the weaknesses in Latin America specifically in Brazil the challenges in Russia and yet I think in many cases in the overall we're performing quite well.
As we've said in the last couple of calls our businesses are really well positioned in Europe.
We don't see Europe as a particularly robust market at the moment but we continue to post good growth across a number of our businesses.
The U.S.
has been steady for us but again I think we would look to our own execution as being the underpinnings of that and not so much any great confidence in macro stability going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> And Tom what's your view on China more explicitly? Well we still think China is a very good market for a number of our businesses Scott.
If we look specifically at performances across the portfolio our Diagnostic business our Dental business continues to perform exceptionally well in China.
So we're seeing strength across some of our other businesses as well.
Water grew double digits in the quarter.
So it's not the same market that it was a year ago or two years ago.
It is a more challenging market in a macro context.
We've seen some pockets of weakness in areas like academic-related and research funding.
But in general we continue to invest there.
We still remain bullish that it will be one of our better growth markets across the whole global landscape.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys and good luck.
Thanks Scott.
We'll move next to Steven Winoker from Bernstein.
Thanks and good morning all.
It looks like the core growth ex-Comms for this past quarter would have been closer to 4% than 3.5%.
And if that's right Tom can you talk through maybe what it would have been or how should we think about the NewCo versus RemainCo core growth rates? Sure.
Good morning Steve.
Your assessment is right that the quarter ex-Comms would have been about 4% rather than the 3.5%.
When you look at the portfolio within the context of NewCo and Danaher going forward the NewCo businesses grew about 3% in the quarter and the Danaher RemainCo portfolio grew about 4% in the quarter.
And that RemainCo would have been closer to 4.5% then ex-Comms now? It would have been a little over 4% yes.
Okay.
All right.
And then as you see that growth pacing you talked a little bit about it but for Q3 versus Q4 how do you maybe see core growth pacing through those two? Well again we believe as of now Q3 will be comparable to Q2.
We have a few less selling days in Q4 which benefited Q1 but adjusted for that we're not looking for a fundamental change and despite arguably a tougher incrementally tougher macro environment we're looking for core growth to stay relatively steady with where we are today.
Right.
Steady ex-Comms right? Yes.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then maybe just a comment on Dental would be helpful.
You talked a little bit about it in the prepared remarks but are you seeing a fundamental improvement then in the business and how should we think about that business progressing going forward? Steve we are seeing some improvement in our performance in dental.
The Q2 growth that I mentioned of 1% was better than where we were in Q1.
We're not yet where we want to be but we saw some improvement in a number of areas.
We're particularly enthusiastic about the great start that we've had with Nobel.
It's not in the core numbers but having a very good start with mid-single-digit core growth for the second quarter and the second quarter in a row.
We look at sellout and sellout remains very good.
It's in probably the 3% to 4% range.
Again it will vary a bit across product categories but I think sellout continues to be good.
I think as we look at consumables and equipment generally a number of areas performing better than they were.
Still some work to do but we think we're approaching the tail-end of some inventory related destocking activities that impacted primarily the equipment side and were more or less isolated to the North American market.
So I think quite a number of things to be encouraged about and clearly still some work to do in some spots.
Okay.
Thanks.
Jeff Sprague from Vertical Research Partners your line is open.
Morning Jeff.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First just China overall can you say if you bid – I missed it – what the China growth rate was in the quarter overall? Jeff we were about 8% 9% which has been remarkably consistent.
We were just talking about it with the China team the last five or six quarters.
Yeah that is solid.
And then on water treatment Dan or Tom what's actually driving the activity there? Can you provide a little granularity on muni versus industrial or geographic and how you think that trends in the back half of the year? Sure.
Absolutely Jeff.
Let's start with the Hach business.
The Hach business continues to perform very well.
Another very good quarter.
I just mentioned their growth in China at double digits on the quarter but continued good performance in the developed markets specifically obviously in the U.S.
and in Europe.
And in general that would span across industrial and muni.
So I think we're seeing – we've seen pretty good progress there.
They continue to invest in growth both on the sales and marketing side as well as in R&amp;D.
And I think we're seeing the benefits of consistent year-over-year investment net business and very very good execution.
If you look at Trojan Trojan more on the equipment side keep in mind that Hach is a little bit more of an OpEx related business a little bit less CapEx exposure.
Trojan a little bit more CapEx exposure.
Had a good quarter second consecutive positive core growth quarter.
We're starting to see some improvement in bid volume on a global basis and this is a lumpy business given the project nature more CapEx oriented.
But generally we're feeling pretty good about where Trojan is.
We talked a number of times about the investments that we've made in ballast water.
We noted that we filed formally for U.S.
type approval via the coast guard.
We're waiting for any questions or follow-up on that filing.
But we remain encouraged about the potential for growth there.
And then finally at ChemTreat another good quarter at ChemTreat performing very well.
Probably faces a few more challenging pockets in the macro environment.
There actually is a little bit of oil and gas exposure in that business.
We've had some success up in the oil sands in Canada and so we've seen some softness there.
The steel market has been a little bit more challenging.
So while ChemTreat continues to grow very positively and gain share there's a few pockets of softness there that we'll need to offset.
Just one more quick one.
Thank you Tom for all that.
It sounds like the smaller bolt-ons might be ramping up.
Did any of those happen in what's going to be the NewCo in the quarter and do you anticipate bolt-ons in the NewCo as you work through this process? Jeff we definitely do.
And we're spending a lot more time with Jim and his team ramping up that effort.
And I would expect to see some bolt-ons here in NewCo in the next 12 months 18 months Thank you.
Thanks Jeff.
We'll hear next from Shannon O'Callaghan from UBS.
Morning guys.
Morning Shannon.
Can you talk a little bit about the variation in the core margin improvement across the segments? You had a couple real strong runs right with Environmental and Industrial and then LS&amp;D up a little less on core and then Dental down.
I know you're doing some investments and some restructuring there.
Maybe just give us a feel for what you're doing there and what kind of benefit we might see coming out of it.
Sure.
It's Dan Shannon.
On Life Science Diagnostics that is a segment that we get probably hit the hardest from an FX perspective but on a constant-currency basis they would have been up 100 basis points.
So kind of feel underlying from a core perspective we're making the progress we should be making but just paying a lot of FX pain right now.
Good core growth numbers.
We are investing high growth markets new products so I think you're seeing some of the impact there.
But you're seeing it on the core growth side.
Dental is a function of very modest core growth growing 1% tougher to expand those margins.
We'll need a little better core growth to see core margin expansion here in the second half.
Okay.
Great.
And then how do you guys feel about the overall healthcare market? I mean you said I think Life Sciences was up double digits in the U.S.
which seemed remarkably strong.
I know you guys in a lot of your businesses have new products driving a lot of growth.
I mean is that Life Sciences' number a function of just overall market or just how do you feel about the market? Shannon we think about the market first of all in probably to keep it simple two different dimensions.
We think about it in terms of truly more of a healthcare-oriented market the term you used that would impact our Diagnostic businesses more.
And then more of a Life Science market that is more skewed towards selling to life science related academic and research institutions universities pharma big pharma food testing et cetera.
So first and foremost we sort of separate it into those two segments of the market.
Specific to your question about our Life Science platform in North America we had some businesses that executed extremely well.
Leica Microsystems for example despite the modest performance overall during the quarter due to some high growth market challenges had a very strong quarter in the U.S.
SCIEX had an excellent quarter in the U.S.
and that's really just good commercial execution.
I wouldn't say it's a function of the macro environment.
Back on the healthcare side we've seen utilization in hospitals increase very modestly.
Generally hospitals are in better shape financially today so we've seen some investment coming through.
And so I think that's certainly a little bit of a help but again I would point to our execution improvements in Beckman's overall performance certainly Radiometer a consistent performer Leica Biosystems growing 20% in advanced staining and growing in some of the core histo applications also underpinning that.
And those would all be growth rates that would be higher than the underlying market and certainly higher than the increases in utilization.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks.
Thanks Shannon.
Up next is Ross Muken from Evercore ISI.
Hi.
Good morning guys and congrats.
Thanks Ross.
So I thought I'd start just you were talking a bit about Life Sciences digging in just a little more in the biopharma side.
It's obviously going to get more important when you close Pall but it seems like a very kind of healthy sub-segment.
We've seen it across the board.
Maybe a little color of what you saw in SCIEX in that segment.
And I know you obviously haven't closed Pall yet but filtration numbers across the board have been consistently spectacular this quarter and so as you're thinking about where you touch today particularly on the biotech side but where you will be going forward how do you feel about that end market specifically? Ross we feel very good about that end market as we I think pointed out in a number of our conversations about the Pall transaction.
We see the biopharma market to be one of the most attractive markets from a sustainable growth perspective in the years to come.
You saw that in Pall's reported numbers coming out of their last quarter.
So we feel very good about the growth prospects there.
Specific to our business I would probably point to SCIEX specifically as a business that performed very well.
Their approach to that market is broad-based in terms of the full range of pharma customers and we continue to see good growth.
They were one of our best performers in the life science platform and specifically a very strong performer in North America.
So we remain very bullish on that market.
And maybe Dan just building off of the prior question on sort of tuck-in activity at NewCo one of the things I've heard from folks is a concern about valuations across that complex and a lack of targets that fit the old Danaher model.
I guess as you look at the pipeline there and the types of businesses or the size of businesses and public versus private do you see a pretty good plethora of opportunities and do you feel like it's difficult given valuations there to do deals or do you feel like there's pockets where you still could see some pretty good high return type acquisitions? Well I don't think we would have announced a separation if we didn't see a significant opportunity there.
And just in the last 45 days we really kind of geared up again the M&amp;A activity for many of what will be Jim's businesses.
We're already starting to see some bolt-ons that I think will come through in the next six months but I think there are also larger opportunities in time.
And that is a team at Fluke Gilbarco that have executed extremely well on their bolt-on adjacent-type acquisitions and we feel very good about that opportunity going forward.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Ross.
Julian Mitchell from Credit Suisse please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
Just had a question around in Industrial on the product ID side.
It looks like you're still outgrowing the market maybe 2x or so.
Maybe just give some color as to what's driving that.
Is there some disruption at Domino because of the merger? Is it a product suite issue or do you think it's more fundamental around the software expertise? All right.
Thanks Julian and good morning.
Product ID specifically Videojet I'll start with Videojet has performed very well.
I would say that it is largely a function of very strong DBS-oriented execution at VJ.
Some of the growth-oriented tools of DBS that we've spoken about in the past tools around funnel management and transformative marketing have really been developed and brought to maturity at Videojet.
And we've seen the impact of the utilization of those tools in their commercial execution and the resulting growth performance and share gains.
So it's a great job by that team and I think we'll continue to see good performance there.
That performance is replicated or is very similar when we look at Esko and X-Rite two terrific acquisitions that the platform has done really broadening its footprint and bringing a broader suite of solutions to brand owners.
And so I think all is tracking in the right direction in terms of the platform.
Relative to Domino we have not seen any particular impact of that.
The PID business in general and VJ specifically is performing exceptionally well in Europe.
And so I think we're in good shape.
Thanks.
And then just to follow up on Dental it sounded like the sellout has been pretty good which I guess would mean the inventories have sort of run their course.
But Dan sounded fairly certain with respect about the scope for the margin expansion in dental in the second half.
So I just wanted to understand do you think Q3 and Q4 will see an acceleration in Dental? We will.
I think it'll still be relatively modest but it will be better than what we've seen here in the first half.
We were encouraged by consumables returning to a more normal growth level more typical margin performance.
And while equipment was a tad better and the sellout numbers are fine I'm not sure we're entirely done from a destock perspective.
I think we've got the biggest pieces behind us but I still think there'll be a little bit more here in the second half.
Thanks.
And then lastly just very quickly the SG&amp;A costs in Q1 I think had caused a bit of consternation around their increase more normal in Q2.
Given the SG&amp;A to sales should continue to sort of – the increases should level off there in the second half.
Yeah.
I mean on a sequential basis clearly part of that's Nobel which comes in with a direct selling model so it's a pretty more heftier selling expense but you should see some continued normalization.
Great.
Thank you.
Moving next to Isaac Ro from Goldman Sachs.
Good morning guys.
Thank you.
Morning Isaac.
Hey.
I just want to stay on the Dental theme for a minute here.
The destocking dynamic that's the second quarter in a row and I think if I understood Dan's comments there previously sounds like there might be a little more to go.
I'm just curious why that is.
Well I think these are the types of things that obviously take some time.
They're worked Isaac in collaboration with our distribution partners.
You've got some balancing going on between different product lines and so it's really just an evolutionary process.
Got it.
And so if we were to try and look at the year holistically the first half's been pretty flat.
The last few years you've been closer to 3% or so.
Is it unrealistic to think given the destocking dynamics that 3% is possible this year for the full year? I think it might be a stretch for the full year but I think in the second half we'd be looking to try to achieve that kind of number.
Got it.
Appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
Thanks Isaac.
And your final question today will come from Deane Dray from RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Morning Deane.
Considering all the transactions you have going on you still were able to complete five bolt-ons.
Maybe a comment on what that pipeline looks like and capacity both capital and management eyeballs to get more deals done.
Deane we're pretty happy.
We did see the pace of bolt-ons ramp up last year.
That's continued here in the first half.
On the margin some of the incremental choppiness in the macro environment is helping get some of these bolt-ons to the finish line.
Now that we're geared up here with Jim and many of his businesses I expect that pace to continue.
We're not going to do any multibillion dollar deals here in the next 12 months but I think you should see a very healthy continued pace of bolt-ons across the platform.
And then just the last question if you could put the spotlight on the Sutron deal for a moment and hydrological monitoring.
It's interesting that's part of environmental but it's Hach environmental.
What are the linkages with Sutron and water quality both from a technology standpoint but also go to market? Sure.
Deane we have a suite of products in our Hach portfolio Hach Lange portfolio that we refer to as Hach environmental.
And we use that term to reference the fact that that suite of products those instruments and software and various communications modalities allow us to provide capabilities outside of municipal and industrial water namely in rivers lakes streams tributaries and all the way out into the blue ocean – the deep ocean areas with businesses like Sea-Bird.
What Sutron provides us is a bolt-on acquisition that adds capabilities in satellite communications in remote data transfer that add significant potential to instruments that are already installed in those applications.
And so it's a tremendous add.
It's a business that we've known for a long time.
We've had an excellent relationship over many years with the leaders of that business and we're thrilled to have them join the portfolio.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Deane.
Thanks Deane.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Gugino I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks everyone for joining us today.
We're around all day for questions.
And that does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day my name is Eric and I will be your conference facilitator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Danaher Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Matt Gugino Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Gugino you may begin your conference.
Thanks Eric.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call.
With us today are Tom Joyce our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release the slide presentation supplementing today's call our third quarter Form 10-Q and reconciliations and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available in the Investors section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investors section of our website later today under the heading Events and Presentations and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of the call will also be available until October 29 2015.
The replay number is 888-203-1112 within the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and the confirmation code is 357158.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
The supplemental materials our third quarter Form 10-Q describe additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Unless otherwise noted all references in these remarks and supplemental materials to company-specific financial metrics relate to the continuing operations of the company in the third quarter of 2015 and all references to period-to-period increases or decreases in financial metrics are year-over-year.
During the call we'll make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings and actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Tom.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Matt and good morning.
Today we reported another record third quarter for Danaher.
We are pleased with our team's execution which drove solid core growth earnings performance and free cash flow.
In a weakening global macro environment we saw the positive impact of the Danaher Business System across our portfolio.
Our consistent pace of new product introductions and go-to-market initiatives led to mid single digit growth or better for several of our operating companies including Hach Trojan ChemTreat Gilbarco Radiometer SCIEX Videojet and Matco.
We're also making steady progress on the separation front.
This quarter we announced many key leadership positions for both NewCo and Danaher and began to identify new growth opportunities for many of our associates.
With strong teams in place at both companies we remain on track to complete the separation in 2016.
So with that as a backdrop let's move on to the details of the quarter.
Adjusted diluted net earnings per share were up 6% to $1.05.
Reported revenue grew 6.5% to $5 billion while core revenues increased 3%.
Acquisitions increased our revenue by 10.5% while currency translation was a 7% headwind.
Geographically growth rates were balanced between the developed and the high-growth markets.
Within the developed markets the U.S.
remained steady growing at a low single digit rate while Western Europe increased mid single digits as a result of share gains in a number of our businesses.
In the high-growth markets demand was mixed with strength in India partially offset by weakness in Brazil Russia and the Middle East.
In China growth moderated slightly from first half levels but still grew mid single digits in the quarter.
Third quarter gross margin was 52.5%.
It increased 40 basis points or 80 basis points excluding acquisition-related adjustments from Pall.
Core operating margin declined 10 basis points and reported operating margin was 15.9%.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency core operating margin expanded 50 basis points.
Free cash flow for the quarter was $691 million resulting in a free cash flow to net income conversion ratio of approximately 115%.
We expect this solid performance to continue in the fourth quarter.
We're also having a record year on the M&amp;A front.
In addition to Pall we closed or announced nine acquisitions for approximately $650 million in the first nine months of 2015 bringing our total spend to over $14 billion.
Our funnels at both Danaher and NewCo are strong and we expect to focus our activity on small and mid-sized transactions throughout the separation process.
In August we closed the acquisition of Pall ahead of schedule thanks to diligent work from both our teams.
We're excited to welcome this iconic brand to Danaher and we're already impressed by the enthusiasm and commitment we're seeing as Pall associates begin to embrace the DBS process.
Ultimately we expect the thoughtful application of DBS tools and principles to result not only in an improved growth trajectory but in a better experience for our customers.
We remain confident in our ability to achieve the $300 million of cost synergies we previously outlined and have financed the acquisition in an interest rate environment that is very favorable for highly rated companies.
So now turning to our five operating segments.
Test &amp; Measurement revenue declined 2% while core revenue increased 2.5%.
Both reported and core operating margin increased 80 basis points to 22.7%.
Our Instrument platform core revenue increased low single digits.
At Fluke core revenue grew low single digits as strength in our Biomedical and Calibration product lines was offset by weakening industrial demand in China and North America.
Tektronix revenue declined low single digits as solid demand in North America and Western Europe particularly for our high-performance oscilloscopes was offset by weakness in Latin America and Russia.
Tektronix innovations continued to lead the market as we introduced several new products this quarter.
Notably we began shipping our new high-performance oscilloscope the DPO70000SX this quarter.
The DPO offers the most accurate real-time performance and highest analog bandwidth on the market.
It combines patented signal-capturing technology compact design and highly scalable architecture to help reduce signal noise and distortion so electrical engineers can better understand and solve their most complex problems.
Moving to Environmental revenue increased 1% with core revenue up 6%.
Core operating margin expanded 185 basis points while reported operating margin was up 160 basis points to 22%.
Our Water Quality platforms core revenue increased mid single digits with Hach ChemTreat and Trojan all growing mid single digits or better.
Across the platform the Danaher Business System is helping our R&amp;D sales and support teams bring new products to market faster convert leads to new business and drive customer loyalty.
At Hach this drove broad-based growth across all major product lines and geographies including China and Latin America.
As water becomes an increasingly valuable resource our customers are more focused than ever on analyzing their local water supplies with the greatest degree of accuracy and simplicity.
Hach's new products including the SL1000 PPA that we introduced last year enable customers to perform critical tests and analyze data more easily than ever before.
ChemTreat also grew across all of its major geographies in spite of the challenging environment revenue in Latin America grew double digits thanks to the team's outstanding execution and quick adoption of DBS in our recent acquisitions Aguasin and Lipesa.
Trojan also had a solid quarter driven by healthy demand and increased bidding activity in the North American municipal market.
Turning to Gilbarco Veeder-Root GVR had a strong quarter delivering high single digit revenue growth as robust demand in North America was partially offset by a decline in China.
In the U.S.
double digit sales in order growth in point-of-sale solutions and dispensers continued as retailers began to implement new and upgraded EMV-compliant systems.
We expect EMV regulations to drive demand at GVR for the next several years.
Now turning to Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics sales were up 14.5% while core revenue grew 3.5%.
Operating margin decreased 490 basis points to 10.8% primarily due to the dilutive effect of recent acquisitions.
Margins were also negatively impacted by continued weakness in emerging market currencies and cost actions taken during the quarter.
In addition we continue to invest in feet on the street and new product initiatives to accelerate future growth.
Our Diagnostic platform delivered low single digit core revenue growth.
Specifically at Beckman Coulter core revenue grew low single digits driven by our immunoassay and urinalysis products.
During the quarter we launched the DxH 500 a low volume hematology analyzer designed for use in physician office labs.
The DxH 500 offers fast powerful data processing software and longer up time saving our customers time and money and helping keep their focus on patient care.
At Radiometer healthy demand in both high-growth and developed markets contributed to high single digit revenue growth.
This marks Radiometer's 15th consecutive quarter of high single digit growth or better.
All major product lines grew mid single digits or better led by AQT which was up more than 20%.
Leica Biosystems increased at a low single digit rate as strength in Western Europe was partially offset by a double digit decline in the Middle East.
Demand remained healthy for both advanced staining consumables and our recently acquired Devicor business.
This August we celebrated Leica's 10-year anniversary as part of the Danaher portfolio.
Over the past decade Leica Biosystems has built a leading pathology diagnostics platform through a series of strategic acquisitions and organic growth investments.
Leica Biosystems now generates over $800 million in annual sales and has nearly eight times the operating profit it had in 2005.
Our Life Science platform core revenue increased at a mid single digit rate.
High single digit growth in the U.S.
and double digit growth in Europe were offset by weakness in the high growth markets.
SCIEX core sales grew mid single digits driven by continued strength in our pharma and clinical end markets.
During the quarter we enhanced our QTRAP and Triple Quad mass spectrometry systems with the addition of the 6500+ series offering revolutionary sensitivity wider sample coverage and faster switching speeds the 6500+ helped researchers detect more compounds to better understand disease protect our water and food supplies and develop pharmaceutical therapies.
Customer reception has been very positive and sales since launch have exceeded our expectations.
Leica Microsystems core revenue increased slightly as growth in the U.S.
and Eastern Europe was largely offset by weakness in Western Europe Latin America and the Middle East.
Orders were stronger up mid single digits with robust demand for our medical and life science products.
We recently launched the DMV6 (sic) [DVM6] digital microscope for use in quality assurance research and development and forensics applications.
With a combination of outstanding optics intuitive operation and smart software the DMV6 (sic) [DVM6] enables users to change objectives with one hand and process results with the other all while automatically keeping samples in focus.
In addition it's offered in three configurations which help our customers find a solution that best fits their applications workflows and budget needs.
Moving on to Dental.
Total revenues increased 23.5% largely due to our Nobel Biocare acquisition while core revenue decreased slightly.
As a result of this decrease we saw a 55 basis point lower core operating margin while reported operating margin also declined 240 basis points to 14.8%.
Nobel Biocare is approaching its first anniversary at Danaher and delivered another quarter of solid results.
Since acquisition Nobel has delivered mid single digit average daily sales growth and over 150 basis points of operating margin expansion.
NobelClinician our implant workflow management software has helped drive this success and during the quarter we celebrated our 10 000th Clinician [NobelClinician] customer.
Within the rest of the Dental segment growth in consumables was offset by a decline in our North American and Middle Eastern equipment businesses.
During the quarter Kerr launched the SonicFill 2 in Europe building upon the success of the original SonicFill by providing dental practitioners with more options for color matching and filling strength.
Since its launch in North America earlier this year the SonicFill product family has grown double digits.
It remains the only single-step sonic-activated handpiece that allows clinicians to easily fill cavities in posterior teeth.
Turning to Industrial Technologies sales decreased 6.5% while core revenue was flat.
Core operating margin expanded 20 basis points while reported operating margin increased 10 basis points to 24.4%.
Our automation platform's core revenue declined low single digits with weakness in North America and China.
In North America we experienced weaker demand from our distribution partners and have seen a contraction in capital spending.
Product identification core revenues increased low single digits.
We saw particularly strong demand for our marking and coding products.
which grew mid single digits in Europe and we believe we continue to take share in that region.
Videojet grew mid single digits with growth across all major product lines.
Driving innovation in the market is a key focus area for Videojet and year-to-date the team has launched several new products that help increase efficiency improve quality and ensure reliability for our customers.
During the quarter Videojet expanded its thermal inkjet offerings with the launch of the m600 oem.
The m600 was designed specifically for packaging machine builders in the pharmaceutical cosmetics and food end markets and offers a 60% smaller footprint reduced heat emissions and expanded control options for critical coding applications.
So in summary we had another good quarter delivering solid core growth free cash flow and earnings performance.
In a challenging global macro environment we've continued to enhance our businesses through organic growth initiatives and strategic acquisitions.
As we move forward we believe the strength of our portfolio combined with our team's steadfast execution through the Danaher Business System will help us deliver strong operating results and shareholder value for the remainder of 2015 and beyond.
Wrapping up for the fourth quarter we anticipate approximately 2% core revenue growth which will be impacted by four fewer selling days versus last year.
Adjusted diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to be between $1.25 and $1.29 which implies year-on-year growth of 12% to 15%.
Thanks Tom.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Eric we're now ready for questions.
Thank you.
And we'll take the first question from Nigel Coe with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks good morning guys.
Nigel.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Nigel.
Just wanted to pick up on some of the guidance Tom.
It seems that September was weaker than the rest of the quarter just maybe comment on that.
And the 2% core growth as we enter 4Q shouldn't be a surprise given the selling days pressure but given the weaker September is there a risk it could be a bit weaker than 2%? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Nigel good morning.
Overall we have seen some incremental slowing in the macro.
That being said it's in pockets.
There's some pockets regionally where we've seen some of that slowing clearly and in some of the more industrially oriented markets.
We saw that in September.
But I would not say we've seen some form of a step change in demand across the portfolio.
In fact we think generally the portfolio is very well positioned it clearly differentiates us.
And generally we think when you look at the strength of the portfolio when you look at the fact that we got the Pall closing done and we're getting after the opportunities that we have there and we see the year-over-year FX impacts potentially dissipating as we move forward clearly some weakening but my inclination is continue to play offense.
We need to continue to be cognizant of both the headlines and our trend lines but our bias is to build on our strengths and despite some slowing here we think the fourth quarter could largely be consistent on a days adjusted basis anyway with what we've seen here in the late going in September.
Okay that's great.
And then just as a follow-on we're seeing some of your competitors have stepped up restructuring as we enter 2016.
Are we still on plan with the original guidance for restructuring or do you see the potential for maybe an uptick in 4Q? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Back in December we laid out sort of the view of the year and I think what's a little bit different this year is that – and in line with that guidance by the way we've done some things along the way.
We haven't simply sat back and taken stock of things here in the fourth quarter but instead I think we've been better at having each of our businesses look for opportunities along the way.
So we've seen some activity going on throughout each of the quarters of the year.
And while as we go through the fourth quarter we may do a little bit more than we initially anticipated.
Those plans are sort of still in the works here.
But we think overall that plan will be pretty consistent maybe a little bit higher.
Obviously there'll be some Pall contributions to that activity.
But generally we think that will set us up pretty well for 2016.
Okay Tom that's great.
Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Nigel appreciate the questions.
And the next question is from Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.
Hey good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Steve.
Could we get a little more color on Pall and in particular what you're seeing in the Industrial businesses there as well as the Life Sciences? And then just also what are the kind of financial moving parts as far as profit contribution in the fourth quarter and then to the extent that you're either investing that away with restructuring or letting that drop to the bottom line? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure thanks Steve.
First of all we're really pleased that we got the Pall closing done as we did.
Terrific teamwork I think on the part of the Pall team as well as the Danaher team to get that done sooner than anticipated.
We're off to a very good start.
We have Rainer Blair who many of you know from our Life Science business in the leadership position over the business right now.
We've added Danaher teammates to the Pall squad and teams are working well driving both growth initiatives as well as cost initiatives.
Specific to your question Steve on Industrial and Life Science.
On Life Science we've seen continued strength anchored specifically in the biopharma side of the Life Science portfolio consistent with what we've seen historically in the business and consistent with our expectations.
We have seen an incremental level of weakness in the Industrial side of the house.
Again probably to be expected given the nature of the exposure to certain end markets in Industrial business.
So incremental weakening but understandably so given those vertical markets.
Specific to the financial contributions we will see some contribution clearly here in the fourth quarter at Pall but obviously that will in fact be offset to some extent by any of the cost actions that we'll take and the investments that we'll make.
Okay.
So you're investing that away.
And what was the core for Industrial in the quarter? They were all up.
Pall with mid single digits with Life Science high single to double and Industrial slightly negative.
Okay.
And then one last question.
How was September for you guys? September was up about 2% Steve.
We thought it would closer to 3% and that kind of cost us 0.5 point overall in the quarter.
Okay.
All right thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Steve.
The next question is from Scott Davis with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Scott.
Inc.</span></strong> Tom can you give us a little bit more color on Dental? And when you think about like – I can't do the math because I don't have the data but if Nobel Biocare was up so well then the core underlying business must have been down pretty meaningfully.
And you said consumables were strong so basically means that dentists have stopped buying equipment.
So I don't know this business well enough to know whether you get some strange buying patterns there or not but can you give us a little bit of color on what are your sales guys telling you? Why are dentists not buying right now? Hey Scott one point of clarification in our core number we are not including Nobel yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Oh okay.
So on an adjusted basis we would have been up low single digits but I'll still let Tom – the question on why we were down slightly.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah thanks Dan.
Your question still has merit Scott.
Inc.</span></strong> That makes me feel better.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No but let's go a little deeper outside.
First of all on Nobel just a quickie.
We're really happy with what's going on there.
The team has done an excellent job.
Average daily sales rates continuing to trend very well.
New product introductions coming out on schedule with a strong cadence great acceptance in the marketplace.
Good progress across various regions.
So all in we're super happy with the start there and team's doing well.
But onto the core of your question probably important to think about it in terms of the consumables side of the house versus the equipment side of the house.
We saw better performance on the consumables side of the house.
We've made a lot of progress which we had talked about throughout the course of this year on rightsizing inventories in the channel driving some sell-out and our performance there is really pretty good from the standpoint of what we're seeing in the sell-out data.
I'd contrast that a little bit to what we've seen on the equipment side.
Where on the equipment side it's the inventory rightsizing in the channel that's taken us a little bit longer than we had anticipated.
So that is a bit of a headwind there.
And secondly we did see some slowdown in equipment purchases particularly in the high growth markets where it's a little bit more project-oriented.
Now the key thing that we look at though when we look through those numbers is we look at the sell-out numbers.
And the sell-out numbers are – on a year-to-date basis were in line with the market certainly so we think we're holding our own from a share perspective.
But it's taken us a little bit longer to get where we wanted to on the equipment channel side and again a little high-growth market headwind.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And then I had an interesting meeting with a financial sponsor yesterday who just commented that they thought the IPO option was dissipating pretty fast and that they wanted to derisk their portfolio pretty quickly and this was a fairly large sponsor.
It seems to be an environment where Danaher could really provide some liquidity and pick up some decent assets at good prices but you did comment that you were looking at more small and middish stuff.
Is there a scenario where you would stretch the balance sheet and/or even tap equity markets if you felt like it was the right transaction just given the dynamics out there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think your question's framed in the right way Scott.
For the right strategic transaction for the transaction for the asset the business that really strengthens us strategically that adds a level of competitive advantage that provides a greater level of growth rate on a long-term basis we would do the right thing from the standpoint of whether that's going into the markets as we did so effectively to finance the Pall transaction or set up the balance sheet in a way that would allow us to do that.
So my comments should not mean to suggest that there's a bright line that's snapped at a certain point beyond which we wouldn't go.
So it's all about the strategic value that can be created.
Inc.</span></strong> Fair enough.
Good answer.
Okay.
I'll pass it on.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Scott.
We'll go next to Steven Winoker with Bernstein.
Thanks and good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Steve good morning.
Good morning.
Hey just first on the separation timing I know you've obviously been very busy you got Pall done early what are the key hurdles to having that separation happen earlier? Is there a desire to do that earlier anyway? How are you thinking about that at this point? Steve two of the bigger drivers are filing with the IRS and getting a favorable ruling on key points and then two filing the Form 10 with the SEC and getting through that process.
We're working diligently.
I think there is a good chance prior to the investor meeting we'll have a better sense on whether or not we'll be able to try to pull this thing forward from our end of the year kind of current timeline.
Okay great.
And then secondly just perhaps a minor point but maybe help us understand to what extent in all the major currency headwinds that you've called out how much of the margin impact is really transactional in terms of maybe mismatched price and cost base? Help us maybe just understand how you're thinking about that in the quarter.
Yes.
I mean try to think through kind of a high-level example.
So if you take – we've got $5 billion of revenues and 25% of that's in the high-growth markets not all of that's in local currency but most of it – call it $1 billion of it in local currency that's just kind of a rough number.
Through the course of Q3 if you look at the JPMorgan Index which is they track the top 10 emerging market currencies those depreciated 10% during the quarter from the beginning of July to the end of September.
So call that a weighted average of a 5% decline.
So you have a 5% decline on $1 billion of revenues that's $50 million of revenues that we lost that we didn't think we'd lose at the beginning of the quarter.
The dynamic on the margin side is in those high-growth markets it's primarily sales and service and marketing people.
So the lower local currency maybe saved us $10 million $15 million of SG&amp;A expense but very little cost of goods expense.
So you lost $50 million of revenues and you probably lost $15 million $20 million of lower operating expense from currency so you get a transaction effect of losing $20 million $30 million of operating profit.
Okay fantastic very helpful.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Steve.
The next question is from Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Hi thank you.
Just a question on some of the other companies in the group they sort of break out price raw materials price raw materials impact on margins year-to-date and obviously it's been a decent tailwind I think for pretty much every company.
Is there any color you could provide in the nine-month period let's say not just the quarter on how much of a benefit price raw material has been? Julian it's clearly been a slight benefit.
We continue to get about 60 basis points 70 basis points of price largely in our consumables business.
But commodities – given our gross margin profile commodities do not play a big impact on our cost of goods sold.
The one area where I would have thought we would have actually gotten more of a benefit than we have is actually on the logistics side.
Clearly fuel prices have come down but the transport companies have been pretty sticky about reducing prices.
Now again I think as demand gets a little weaker here maybe that helps.
So it's been a benefit to date.
But just given our product make-up it's not been – the commodity side doesn't help or hurt us as much as most industrial companies.
Thank you and then just a question on China.
Obviously the last month or two people are trying to see if there's any evidence of a bottoming-out in short-term demand there.
Maybe just talk about how you have seen demand in the different verticals in the last three months or four months.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Julian we've actually seen China while slowing incrementally it's still one of the better markets where we play today.
Our growth rates continue to be very good in a number of our businesses.
Specifically in our Diagnostic business we continue to grow extremely well in China.
We've seen some of the – some of the slowing that we had talked about around tenders for Life Science over a period of time that money has freed up.
Not perhaps to the same rate that we would have hoped by this point but certainly we're seeing a better environment for life science spending.
Our Environmental businesses continue to see terrific opportunities.
And so I think as we look at China we really continue to look at a number of sectors in that market where our businesses are extremely well positioned and where the sectors themselves are really quite attractive.
So clearly the more industrially oriented you are the more challenging that may be but our Environmental businesses our Life Science Diagnostic businesses are well positioned and we still feel very good about those.
I think that's probably a market as an example where we really plan to and my bias is to continue to play offense.
We'll be selective about where those investments go and target them to the higher growth segments but in general we're still constructive in that market.
Great thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question is from Ross Muken with Evercore ISI.
Hi good morning guys.
So maybe a little bit more color on the pharma vertical as a whole would be helpful.
I know you talked to Pall in the quarter obviously.
There's been a number of sort of volatile events in the space on drug pricing et cetera and we've obviously seen a bit of a collapse in some biotech prices.
And so help us understand I mean it seems like SCIEX had a pretty good quarter and obviously the biotech side of Pall did as well.
So help us think through the market volatility and whether or not that sort of worries you at all relative to the demand side of things.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Ross.
We continue to be bullish on those markets.
Yes obviously there's been some volatility certainly in those markets certainly in terms of the way they've been trading.
And of course our exposure as you mentioned is largely in the Pall business as well as across our Life Science platform and more specifically around AB SCIEX.
Specifically our pharma exposure in Life Sciences is about probably 20% or 25% of that business specifically goes into that market.
In the case of Pall specifically it's about a third of their business is bio pharma-related.
The growth rates there continued to be very strong throughout the course of the quarter.
These are critical applications that to some extent are a bit insulated from the core volume side of what's going on inside of those facilities.
In other words whether you're making a large volume or a small volume you're still going to be running that equipment and consuming some of our products.
On the research side the research investments while they're shifting around a bit continue to be relatively good.
So I think in general we're staying the course there and we think there's still great opportunities ahead.
And maybe just dovetailing off of Steve's question from earlier it's been an environment that's been difficult for you from an M&amp;A standpoint last few years but we're finally getting to a period where there's a little more volatility if valuation has come down in some subsectors seems like the timing may be fortuitous given when you can complete the spin next year.
Maybe remind us around your activity level on tuck-ins during the last kind of market dislocation in 2008-2009 and talk a little about the trade-off of kind of completing the spin in due course versus the desire to sort of continue to add on at least more of the tuck-ins versus maybe anything larger.
Well I hope we're not looking at 2008-2009.
No obviously.
During – obviously that was a good period for us in that 2008-2009 period we acquired almost – brought in almost 20 companies and not surprisingly those are among our best returns for the company.
I don't think we're heading into that but the environment's getting tougher.
We talked earlier about the IPO market being tough here and I think that bodes well I think that bodes quite well for NewCo given the choppiness in the industrial sector given a little less competition from private equity.
We've talked about roughly 2 billion of capacity the rest of this year and into next year.
But as we get towards the end of – middle end of next year that number's going to jump back up a lot.
So we're not – Tom suggested we're not shutting down we're still working hard looking at activities looking at possibilities both for Danaher and at NewCo.
Great.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Ross.
We'll go next to Deane Dray with RBC Capital Markets.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Had a couple quick comments or questions on the Water Quality side of the business and maybe you can give a frame for us how you're seeing municipal budgets today.
Everything I'm reading it looks as though muni budgets are actually one of the growth markets at least for North America.
So how are muni budgets favoring projects for Trojan for example? And then a second question on Pall it's interesting that Pall as you expect you see the logo in the Life Sciences side but it could have easily also showed up today in the Environmental logos and be interested in how you're positioning Pall in go-to-market in Water Quality.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Deane.
So specific to municipal budgets and the overall municipal water market as a growth market it's interesting right because we could talk about it as a growth market today everything's relative.
We haven't historically thought of the North American muni market as a growth market on a relative basis but today it really probably is.
To your point it's growing better than a lot of other markets that are much more challenged.
And I think the way I would describe it Deane is that in contrast to probably the last three years or four years where those budgets were flat or down largely recovering from a pretty challenging housing market in so many areas around the U.S today we'd say those budgets are probably growing modestly.
A lot of muni budgets are probably growing maybe in the 2% or 3% range and that's 2% or 3% better or more than what they were growing probably in the last three years or four years.
So there are good opportunities there.
They continue to contribute well to – certainly to Hach Lange as well as to Trojan.
Specific to your question about Trojan we have seen the bidding activity up this year and we've seen overall revenue converting that business – that bidding activity into revenue up this year as well.
So probably one of the better markets where we participate today and clearly with leading positions we believe we're gaining share in Water Quality.
In the Pall business Pall does have a position in municipal water.
It is – it's not one of their larger businesses but we believe there are opportunities there.
And we have a team at Trojan as well as at Pall looking together at where there might be cooperative opportunities.
It could be on certain projects or certain opportunities relative to technology where bringing filtration as well as ultraviolet treatment together may be a great opportunity for a customer.
So it's early days there.
We're really just getting into the 100-day strategic plans across those vertical markets but it is a good position to start with and we'll see what we can do.
Thanks and just a quick question.
What was NewCo's core revenues in the quarter? Deane they were a little bit under the 3%.
So they were 2% 2.5% led by both Gilbarco and Matco.
Great thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Deane.
The next question is from Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi guys good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Andrew.
Just a question on free cash conversion.
what are the buckets for improvement in the fourth quarter? And also if you could give us an initial sense given that we've closed Pall how much working capital contribution can we get in 2016? Andrew I don't know if we're looking at a very different dynamic in Q4 of this year versus last year.
We did see a spike in payables at the end of the third quarter.
That sometimes happens when we have a quarter end that's in the following month.
So we actually closed a quarter in October as opposed to September 29 September 30.
That should normalize back in the quarter.
We tend to have pretty good working capital performance as we get towards the end of the year.
That should be another contributor.
So I don't think – I don't see a very different frame than what we had last year.
We're still working through the Pall numbers.
We think there's some meaningful cash flow opportunities there not only in the working capital side but also on the CapEx – managing CapEx a little differently there but we'll talk about both of those more in time.
And just a follow-up on separation timing.
Did you change your disclosure language on the timing? Because the QNO (45:28) says in 2016 or is it the same language as before? Just to confirm sorry.
I don't remember.
What I'm continuing to say is our expectation is 2016 we still believe it will be the end of the year but that could change and if there is a change it would be to the positive and we'll know more here in a couple months.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Andrew.
And the next question's from Isaac Ro with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning guys thank you.
Just a question on Beckman to start.
If I just take a quick look at peers here like Abbott and Roche some of them do seem to have core growth rates closer to the high single digit range.
And so I'm curious sort of if I look back at my notes you guys had an analyst meeting earlier this year and gave a lot of disclosure on the things you've done to turn around the franchise but curious kind of what you need to do from here to kind of pace ahead of your comps there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Isaac thanks.
We're continuing to make progress at Beckman.
We track our customer retention and we track our win rates very closely on a month-to-month basis.
We're confident as we look at the combination of retention and win rates that we're adding to our growth position as we look out into 2016 and 2017.
Obviously some of what we see in retention and adding menu to retained accounts as well as new customer accounts don't necessarily manifest themselves in the quarter in which you've won them.
In fact oftentimes it may take six months to 12 months for those to materialize.
So I think we're confident we're continuing to make progress strengthening the portfolio through new products continuing to see good growth in the high-growth markets.
But it's a journey we still have work to do.
We're not yet at the growth rates that we would like to see relative to the peer group.
You highlight them well.
And – but we are making progress and we're confident in the opportunities.
Got it.
And then maybe just a question on NewCo.
Where are you in the process of sort of leadership selection and when might we know a little bit more about kind of how you're going to staff up the NewCo? Thank you.
Well we've publicly named Jim obviously as the leader but his entire L1 team with one exception has been named.
They're all internal folks.
And a fair number of people at the L2 level the level below that have also been named.
So we're off to a good start on that front.
Got it.
Thanks so much guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Isaac.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Gugino I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Eric.
Thanks everyone for joining us.
We're around all day for questions.
This concludes today's call.
Thank you for your participation My name is Leo and I will be your conference facilitator this morning.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Danaher Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Matt Gugino Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Gugino you may begin your conference.
Thank you Leo.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call.
With us today are: Tom Joyce our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Comas our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
I'd like to point out that our earnings release the slide presentation supplementing today's call and other information required by SEC Regulation G relating to any non-GAAP financial measures provided during the call are all available on the Investors section of our website www.danaher.com under the heading Financial Information.
The audio portion of this call will be archived on the Investors section of our website later today under the heading Events &amp; Presentations and will remain archived until our next quarterly call.
A replay of this call will also be available until February 2 2016.
The replay number is 888-203-1112 within the U.S.
or 719-457-0820 outside the U.S.
and the confirmation code is 9714607.
During the presentation we will describe certain of the more significant factors that impacted year-over-year performance; the supplemental materials describe additional factors that impacted year-over-year performance.
Unless otherwise noted all references is in these remarks and supplemental materials to company-specific financial metrics relate to the continuing operations of the company and the fourth quarter of 2015 and all references to period-to-period increases or decreases in financial metrics are year-over-year.
During the call we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements regarding events or developments that we believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties including those set forth in our SEC filings and actual results might differ materially from any forward-looking statements that we make today.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date that they are made and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Tom.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Matt and good morning everyone.
We are pleased with our results for the fourth quarter in which the team delivered double-digit earnings growth strong core operating margin expansion and record free cash flow.
Despite the more challenging economic landscape particularly in our industrially-oriented markets we continued to build our competitive advantage and drove share gains across a number of our businesses.
As always the Danaher Business System is the foundation for our team's outstanding execution.
We also made meaningful progress toward establishing a new industrial growth company Fortive which will be spun out of Danaher later this year.
At our year-end Investor Meeting we announced Fortive's name branding future operating structure and additional leadership positions.
We also achieved an important milestone in December filing Fortive's Form-10 registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We are confident that Fortive will launch with a strong foundation and will be poised for success upon completion of the separation in the third quarter of 2016.
For the full year our investments in organic growth initiatives helped drive solid 3% core revenue growth.
With the addition of our recent acquisitions and other portfolio moves our total annual revenues are now over $20 billion.
From an M&amp;A perspective 2015 was a historic year for Danaher.
Including Pall we announced or closed 14 acquisitions for nearly $14.5 billion expanding our capabilities across the portfolio.
Looking forward our funnels at both Danaher and Fortive are strong and we'll continue to focus on small and mid-size transactions throughout the separation process.
In 2015 we generated a record $3.2 billion of free cash flow including over $1 billion in the fourth quarter.
Our free cash flow to net income conversion ratio in 2015 was 123% representing the 24th consecutive year in which our free cash flow has exceeded net income.
We recognize the importance of this metric particularly in a more challenging macroenvironment as strong free cash flow is the fuel used to fund both our organic and inorganic growth initiatives.
Now turning to the fourth quarter sales grew 12.5% to $5.9 billion while core revenue was roughly flat.
Core revenue growth particularly for our consumables businesses was negatively impacted by four fewer selling days in the quarter.
In addition the impact of currency translation eased this quarter but still decreased revenues by 5% while acquisitions increased revenues by 17.5%.
In a weakening global macroenvironment the Danaher Business System help protect and expand many of our market-leading positions driving share gains at Hach ChemTreat Matco Gilbarco Radiometer SCIEX and Videojet.
In the high-growth markets declines in Latin America Russia and the Middle East were more than offset by double-digit growth in India and high single-digit growth in China.
Notably annual revenues in China exceeded $2 billion for the first time and we remain well-positioned in the most attractive sectors in the market.
In the developed markets revenues were down slightly due to incremental softness in the U.S.
and Western Europe.
Gross margin for the quarter was 51.2%.
For the full year our gross margin was 52.3% and our gross profit increased by almost $900 million.
In the quarter core operating margin increased 120 basis points with all five segments improving by 60 basis points or better.
Our reported operating margin was flat at 16.6% negatively affected by the dilutive impact of recent acquisitions and acquisition-related transaction costs.
Fourth quarter adjusted diluted net EPS was $1.27 which represents an increase of 13.5% over last year.
For the full year adjusted diluted net EPS was $4.30 up 8.5% from 2014.
Turning to our five operating segments Test &amp; Measurement revenues decreased 9% while core revenues were down 5%.
Core operating margin increased 110 basis points primarily due to new product introductions and good cost management.
Core revenue in our Instruments platform decreased at a high single-digit rate with declines across most major geographies.
Fluke core revenues were down high single-digits as industrial markets continued to weaken in North America Latin America and the Middle East.
In December Fluke acquired Pacific Laser Systems a leader in hand-held laser alignment tools to enhance its product offerings for professional contractors electricians and general maintenance customers.
At Tektronix core sales declined high single-digits; declines in North America Latin America and the Middle East more than offset growth in China that resulted from solid execution by our local sales team.
The team's continued investments in innovation placed Tek in a position of technology leadership within its industry.
This quarter Tek launched the MDO4000C a mixed domain oscilloscope that combines up to six instruments in one unit.
The new MDO4000C is completely customizable and upgradable allowing engineers to start with a high-performance oscilloscope and add functionality over time as needs change or budgets allow.
Matco a business that will be a significant contributor to Fortive's results delivered its third consecutive year of double-digit core growth in 2015.
Even after three decades as part of the Danaher portfolio Matco continues to find new ways to improve using DBS.
By deploying such DBS tools as web marketing accelerated product development and lean conversion the team continues to expand its franchise distribution network gain market share and expand margins.
Turning now to our Environmental segment; revenues grew 1% with core revenues up 4%.
Core operating margin expanded 60 basis points and reported operating margin expanded 260 basis points to 21.8%.
Water quality core revenues increased at a low single-digit rate.
A combination of fewer selling days and slower demand from our more industrial customers in the developed markets resulted in essentially flat core growth at Hach while ChemTreat grew slightly.
Trojan had another very good quarter driven by healthy demand and increased bidding activity in the North American muni market.
Hach delivered another impressive year in 2015.
In addition to mid-single digit organic growth Hach continued its healthy cadence of bolt-on acquisitions.
The team has done a terrific job implementing DBS in newly acquired businesses to help improve sales and drive innovation.
One such example is BioTector which was acquired in 2014 and had double-digit growth in the quarter.
BioTector provides online total organic carbon analyzers that help our customers monitor water quality in real time and reduce waste.
BioTector's early and effective application of DBS tools such as lean conversion and funnel management led to more than 200 basis points of margin expansion significant inventory reductions and market share gains in the chemical and dairy segments.
Gilbarco Veeder-Root's core revenues grew high single-digits with strength across the platform.
In the U.S.
point-of-sale solutions and dispensers increased over 20% as our customers continued to upgrade their payment systems to comply with EMV security requirements.
We expect EMV-related demand to continue to accelerate for the next several years.
Moving to Life Science &amp; Diagnostics core revenues grew 2% with reported revenues up 34.5% largely due to our recent Pall MicroScan and Devicor acquisitions.
Core operating margin expanded 75 basis points.
Core revenues in our Diagnostics platform increased low single-digits with growth in the high-growth markets partially offset by slight declines in developed markets.
As previously mentioned fewer selling days in the quarter negatively impact our recurring revenue streams across the platform.
At Beckman Coulter core revenues increased at a low single-digit rate led by our immunoassay and urinalysis solutions.
Utilization rates in Asia remain healthy leading to high single-digit growth across the region.
In Europe we celebrated our first orders with the commercial launch of our VERIS Molecular Diagnostics System.
VERIS' streamlined sample-in result-out workflow offers breakthrough ease of use in a market that is experiencing a shortage of skilled technicians.
In short it's helping our lab customers process more tests reduce training requirements and save money and thus far customer feedback has been extremely positive.
Radiometer's core revenues were up slightly a deceleration from previous quarters due to the effect of fewer selling days and a difficult comparison in instrument sales.
Geographically we saw healthy growth in China and Japan while Latin America and the Middle East declined.
Leica Biosystems had a good finish to the year delivering low single-digit core growth as strong demand across most major product lines was partially offset by the impact from fewer selling days.
Notably the team delivered a record year of placements for our BOND Advanced Staining Instrument.
Last December we closed the acquisition of Devicor a leading provider of breast biopsy devices and markers that moved Leica further upstream in the anatomical pathology workflow.
Devicor continues to track well and has exceeded our expectations posting high single-digit core growth or better in each quarter since acquisition.
Core revenues in our Life Science platform were up low single-digits with growth in both developed and high-growth markets.
SCIEX core revenues grew mid-single-digits with continued strength in our clinical and applied end markets.
2015 marked the fifth year since our acquisition of SCIEX.
Since then SCIEX has proven to be a remarkable example of how thoughtful application of DBS principles can drive tremendous financial results.
The team has taken a business that was growing below market rates to mid to high single-digit growth and share gains.
We've seen significant improvement on the cost side as well which has enabled SCIEX to invest those savings into higher impact growth initiatives.
Progress at SCIEX continues today and 2015 marked one of the most important product innovation years in SCIEX's history with the launch of its X-Series mass spectrometry platform.
The X-Series introduces an entirely new design easy-to-use software and custom models for targeted application in routine food environmental and forensic testing labs.
Leica Microsystems' core revenues were essentially flat as strong performance in China and Japan was offset by declines in Europe the Middle East and Latin America.
Turning now to Dental segment revenues increased 17% largely due to our Nobel Biocare acquisition.
Core revenues were up slightly.
Core operating margins increased by over 500 basis points in the quarter primarily due to consistent DBS implementation across a number of operational areas.
Reported operating margins were 15.8%.
Revenues in our consumables business were negatively impacted by fewer selling days in the quarter but our team continued to execute well and saw a strong demand for several product lines throughout the year.
In particular our investments in innovation have provided us with truly differentiated technologies such as SonicFill TF Adaptive and elements free which all launched in 2014.
In dental technology we saw our first quarter of positive growth since the fourth quarter of 2014.
Top line results continued to be impacted by destocking within our U.S.
distribution channels but to a much lesser degree than in previous quarters.
December marked the one-year anniversary of our acquisition of Nobel Biocare.
The team has quickly embraced growth lean and leadership tools of DBS helping to not only accelerate growth but also improve operating margins by over 300 basis points since the acquisition.
Moving to Industrial Technologies revenues declined 8.5% while core revenues were down 4.5%.
Core operating margin expanded 80 basis points and reported operating margin expanded 120 basis points to 21.6%.
Automation core revenues decreased at a high single-digit rate due to weakening in industrial markets in China and North America.
Despite the challenging market and revenue decline the team continues to identify cost savings opportunities and delivered solid core margin expansion in the quarter.
Core revenues in our Product Identification platform were up slightly.
In the fourth quarter we continued to extend our reach into new product idea adjacencies with the acquisition of Laetus a leading supplier of track-and-trace inspection systems for pharmaceutical packaging plants.
Increasingly pharmaceutical tracking is becoming a regulatory and public safety concern and Laetus gives us exposure to this important vertical and we're excited to welcome Laetus to the Danaher team.
At Videojet core revenues were up low single-digits as strong performance in Europe and North America was somewhat offset by weakness in the high-growth markets.
Results were negatively impacted by fewer selling days in the quarter.
Throughout the full year Videojet has placed a major focus on digital investments driving key innovations in areas such as network monitoring Remote Service-enabled printers and predictive maintenance.
As a result we achieved record new equipment vitality of over 40% for the year.
These tremendous technology capabilities have not only solidified Videojet's leadership position in the market they have also meaningfully improved our customers' experiences.
So to wrap up we're pleased with our record fourth quarter results.
During the quarter the team delivered double-digit earnings growth significantly expanded core operating margins generated record free cash flow and announced several bolt-on acquisitions.
Despite the more challenging economic landscape particularly in our industrially-oriented markets we continue to execute well.
Looking back 2015 was a remarkable year for Danaher.
We completed the largest acquisition in our history with Pall announced our pending separation into two independent publicly-traded companies with Fortive and drove excellent overall financial results.
With the Danaher Business System as our foundation we believe we'll continue to deliver earnings outperformance and create long-term shareholder value in 2016 and for years to come.
We're initiating first quarter adjusted diluted net EPS guidance between $1 and $1.04 which assumes approximately flat core revenue growth.
As we announced at our Annual Investor Event in December we continue to expect full year 2016 core revenue growth of 2% to 3% and adjusted diluted net earnings per share to be in the range of $4.80 to $4.95 which would represent a 12% to 15% increase year-on-year.
Thanks Tom.
That concludes our formal remarks.
Leo we're now ready for questions.
We'll take our first question from Scott Davis of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Scott.
Inc.</span></strong> I think – I mean given that it's been about a month since you gave the last guidance in mid-December – the formal guidance I guess – things seemed to have degraded a bit on the macro side.
I mean what confidence do you have? I mean now that you've seen I guess most of January I mean have things stabilized? I mean your guidance seems to indicate that you think that was a bit of a blip I suppose so just a little color there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure Scott.
I think Scott what we're assuming is that what we saw with some of the slowing in December is essentially the environment that we're going to see in the near term here.
It's clearly impacting our more industrial businesses more than our other businesses so we're not immune to the slowdown but I think we took some appropriate actions in the fourth quarter.
Those actions are going to pay off here certainly from a margin standpoint but I think the other thing to keep in mind is that the portfolio that we have today truly does differentiate us.
And I think when we look at the opportunities that we have in our Life Science businesses our Diagnostic businesses some improvement that we're seeing here in our Dental businesses continued good progress at GVR while we remain cautious in some respects around the macroenvironment and are not assuming things get materially better there we're playing offense in a number of areas that I think will bode well.
So I don't think there's anything particularly optimistic in our outlook around the macro but I think some of the things that we're doing from an investment standpoint and across our growth initiatives should continue to position a very good portfolio and a differentiated portfolio and continue to move it into an even better place.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Makes sense.
And then just as a follow-up the emerging market currencies have degraded a fair amount.
I mean are you able to get local price to offset that? I mean how do you manage that volatility specifically just given the exposures you guys have? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean it's an issue; I'd probably bifurcate the answer.
Where we have the aftermarket business the consumables the service we typically able to get price; with equipment and instruments we're not able to and we're taking a little bit of a margin hit there.
Fortunately the euro has stabilized so the overall currency impact is not what it was in 2015 but there's a little bit of a negative right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Good luck.
Thanks.
I'll pass it on.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Scott.
And we'll take our next question from Nigel Coe of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Nigel.
Hey Nigel.
Yeah so just on the $0.40 from Pall can you maybe just first of all comment on how Pall is tracking or how it tracked through the quarter? Maybe comment on the Industrial versus Life Sciences sides? And yeah has the composition of the $0.40 in the plan changed at all in the last couple months? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Nigel we're very very happy with how we've gotten started with Pall starting with the team that we have in place a terrific team both the Pall leadership team many of whom have taken on added responsibilities.
But in addition the added resources that we've put in place and the leadership that we have brought to bear in the business I think together that team is off to a terrific start.
We'll talk to the $0.40 and the cost opportunities that we have here in just a minute but coming to the growth side of the house about what we expected: continued very good progress and growth rates on the Life Science side keeping in mind that that business has an exceptional position in the biopharma market in Life Science.
So we're seeing continued good growth there.
We're also seeing outstanding growth in single-use technologies which are a key part and a key growth driver of the biopharma segment of the Life Science business as time goes on.
On the Industrial side again what you – what we would've expected which is a slowing on that side of the house.
We've seen that – those businesses impacted far more than obviously on the more Life Science-oriented side of the house.
But I think it's also important to keep in mind that that business is also strongly skewed towards consumables.
In total the portfolio is about 70% aftermarket consumables primarily.
And so that's a strong foundation and I think continues to give us confidence that while we'll have some segments that are challenged the business overall will continue to perform quite well.
Relative to the cost side of the house again off to a very good start.
You heard us in December take the 2016 number up to $100 million because we had gotten off to an earlier start.
We're getting the kinds of cost reductions that you would expect us to get out of a public company in the early going.
The public company cost beginning to get after some of the indirect cost leverage that we get and some of the procurement cost leverage that we get by consolidating procurement across our other businesses where appropriate.
And over time we'll see some of the benefits coming from – on the gross margin side as we look to the operational footprint but that will obviously take a little bit more time.
Okay but that's helpful.
Thanks.
Thanks Tom.
And then on the balance sheet you've taken down a lot of – an impressive amount of debt since the acquisition of Pall I think about $3 billion of debt paydown.
Given the bit more challenging macro is there a change in your bias towards delevering this year? Nigel I think we remain in that kind of $2 billion target for M&amp;A this year.
We are incrementally encouraged we're able to get some deals done in December granted they were small but we actually saw a flurry of deals get done towards the end of the year.
Clearly what's going on in the high yield market has made it very difficult for the private equity parties let alone industrial companies that have a lower credit rating.
So some of the anxiety out here is definitely helping some of the conversations.
So on the margin we're a little bit more encouraged than we were 60 90 days ago on the M&amp;A front.
Oh...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sorry Nigel.
We may have lost Nigel there.
Hope I didn't offend you Nigel.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Operator we can move to the next question.
Very good.
Our next question is from Steve Tusa of JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hey.
How's it going? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Steve.
Hey Steve.
Can you just maybe talk a little bit more specifically about Pall industrial trends? I mean what is the organic – what kind of organic are you seeing there and what are you expecting for 2016 a little more precisely? So Steve for the four months that we owned the business on a constant-currency basis Pall grew about 4% on a combined basis.
Clearly it would've been accretive to our core growth here.
Life Science was up high single-digits; Industrial was down low to mid-single digits.
We see that for the near-term not a bad way to be looking at the business.
Certainly the industrial piece is more challenged but more than making up for it with a very strong growth on the Life Science side.
And then what was Pall's contribution to free cash flow in the quarter? On the working capital side where we contributed north of $300 million of cash out of working capital Pall was a nice piece of it but maybe 15%.
The working capital improvements were very broad-based really exceptional performance across all the five segments.
So it was a nice contributor but it was not an overwhelming piece.
Okay.
Great.
And then just one last question.
What's the restructuring contingency look like in 2016? Is there any change to that as you kind of exited the year at a bit of a weaker rate or are you in normal day-to-day planning? How extreme are things around some of the more industrial businesses? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Steve I think one of the things that we learned from 2015 and we're pleased about is that we did a number of things throughout the course of the year from a productivity perspective.
And I think particularly in an environment like this it's important that we stay cognizant of the fact that there may be opportunities that present themselves some things that we may need to do.
So we're going to keep the teams active at looking for opportunities throughout the course of the year and we'll take advantage of those as they come up.
So I think we got a lot done in 2015.
We got a lot more done in December than we anticipated probably $20 million north of what we thought in December.
So that's a good thing; sets us up well a little bit more than we would have anticipated.
But again I think it's important that we stay (31:07) cognizant of the environment business-by-business and look for opportunities to take action where good projects present themselves.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll take our next question from Steven Winoker of Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Thanks and good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Steve.
Hey.
What was the Fortive versus Danaher core growth if you split it that way for the quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Looking at Fortive probably being rough down 2% to 3% and Danaher go-forward up 1% 1.5%.
So I think that's roughly the way it would split.
Okay.
And just a couple of things...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Steve – I'm sorry Steve.
Sorry to interrupt.
Just wanted to make one other quick point just for clarification on that.
It's important to recognize on the Danaher side of the house that 1% to 1.5% that side of the house has a higher percentage of consumables and recurring revenue than you do on the Fortive side.
And as a result of that the fewer selling days in the fourth quarter has a little bit greater impact on the Danaher side.
So when you normalize for the days impact on the Danaher side that's going to be potentially could be 1.5% 2% maybe even on that side.
Again rough numbers but it has a little bit more of an impact there.
Oh okay.
All right.
And then just on a couple of the segments so I think this was the – it's been at least eleven quarters since I've seen Fluke go negative.
So maybe a little commentary on what's going on in the industrial environment specifically on Fluke.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
And then also Life Sciences &amp; Diagnostics it's the lowest I think I've seen in 14 quarters.
So you went through a lot of detail there but to what extent are we – should we be concerned about any kind of bleed over from the broader environment into their markets? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Sure.
We'll start with Fluke.
Fluke clearly impacted by the downshift in the macroenvironment in the quarter Fluke being one of our more industrially-oriented businesses.
I think the macroenvironment while it had its impact on us on a broad basis also had an influence on the way our distributors were thinking about inventories during the course of the quarter.
So I think one of the things that – although we don't have all the numbers right now for full transparency on what happened to channel inventory it's a pretty good hypothesis right now based on some early data we have that would suggest that there was some inventory control that went on in the channel that certainly would've had some impact as well.
So I think those two factors combined again broad-based macro on sellout and probably some impact on sell-in based on inventory contraction.
On the Diagnostics side Steve the bigger piece is obviously Diagnostics that's largely consumables Diagnostics were up 4% organically for the year.
And as you remember Q1 when we had the extra days we were up 6%; Q4 when we had the fewer days we were up 2%.
So actually on a days-adjusted basis Diagnostics tracked pretty close to that 3% to 4% rate all year including the fourth quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Maybe one other thing to add there is that best we can tell Steve we didn't see any year-end budget flush there in the fourth quarter.
That's a little bit more of a Life Science-oriented phenomena than a Diagnostic-oriented phenomena.
But in some past fourth quarters we've seen the impact of that.
We didn't see any of that in the fourth.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good news and bad news on that front has an impact on the fourth quarter.
Sometimes that budget flush can drive some inventories out that then create some go-forward weakness as you start the New Year.
We're hoping we – and the early numbers coming out here in January look like we're off to a decent start.
That's good.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Jeff Sprague of Vertical Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Jeff.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Thanks for that color on Fluke.
I wanted to ask that question a little bit more broadly.
To what extent do you think kind of the more industrially-oriented organic growth rates clearly reflect end demand versus maybe a broader channel liquidation? I don't know if you have any good insight into your other channels or any even anecdotal color there would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't have much there Jeff.
I know the teams are still out talking to customers and trying to get a better sense of that.
One reason for a little bit more insight on Fluke than and less so – Fluke's a little bit more concentrated with some big distributor partners that we can get a little bit more transparency a little bit more quickly.
Some of the more automation sensors and control businesses and so on more fragmented channels and it's just taking us a little longer to get any sense of channel inventories.
And just shifting gears a little bit any thoughts on how the device tax plays through? Do you see any change in demand there or any change in the way people are pricing competitively and maybe just size what you think the impact could be to your business this year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Jeff when the device tax was first put in place the impact of that was very fairly modest on us.
There's money at stake but overall not a huge number.
So what comes back in terms of a little bit of a lift to operating margins is also modest.
I mean net-net it's a good thing for the industry.
We didn't see much impact in the market from a pricing standpoint when it all happened – I should say from a competitive standpoint.
We did get some of that back in price over time and probably some competitors did as well but in terms of real impact to competitive dynamics I think it's too modest a change certainly to the scale of our business and maybe to the scale of others to really impact the competitive world.
Jeff I think we said in 2013 it was about a $0.05 hit.
We recovered some of that in price.
So I think it'll be less than a $0.05 but maybe $0.03 benefit here in the year.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Jeff.
We'll move next to Ross Muken of Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Good morning gentlemen.
Maybe on Dental can you just give us a little bit more color just sort of on the progress you made throughout the year? It looks like ending the year you had some of your best results obviously adjusting for the days.
And so as we sort of now rolled Nobel into the sort of core and we think about the margin progression of that business over the year help us think through kind of the pushes and pulls and how happy you are with the progress made.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Yeah.
Thanks Ross.
I think 2015 was a year of very good progress across the platform.
You mentioned Nobel; let me just start with that.
We have a tremendous team of folks at Nobel.
Largely the leadership team that was in place when we acquired the business they have really embraced DBS and are off to a terrific start both in terms of continuing to use DBS tools to drive growth but also in my comments earlier some great progress on operating margins.
And now as that goes core to the Dental platform we'll see some impact of that to the good.
On the business that existed prior to 2015 I think again 2015 was a year of a lot of progress.
I've mentioned a couple of times that we've had outstanding relationships with our distribution partners.
We work in a collaborative way with them on channel inventories throughout the course of the year.
That was obviously somewhat of a painful process to go through in the sense of the impact on core growth but net-net a very good process in terms of positioning the channel efficiently.
So we're pleased that the vast majority of that's behind us.
There can always be a little bit of a tail to that of stuff we're still moving out in slower-moving inventories but again I think a ton of progress.
We've also got a very good leadership team in place in our Dental platform today with some new players in place that I think are doing some wonderful things in terms of driving innovation.
It was a very good year of new product introductions and I think we'll see the benefit of that as core growth improves this year.
So we know we still have work to do there but good news is there's opportunities for value creation as we go on here.
Great.
And maybe just quickly a little color more on the M&amp;A pipeline.
Can you just give us a sense – I mean there's obviously been a ton of equity market volatility.
We've seen obviously a shift in how the private equity folks are also sort of transacting.
Just give us a feel for maybe healthcare versus industrial-oriented assets and the like whether there is more activity at one side of the spectrum versus the other and how sort of the valuation dislocations have been kind of digested by the various groups because you're obviously doing smaller things at this point and it's obviously the large end of the market that's probably been most impacted.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Well I'll let Dan comment in a second on kind of the environment that we're seeing.
But if you just look at what we did in the fourth quarter which I think is a bit instructive we got four or five small deals done in the fourth quarter.
And by the way a couple – two or three of those deals were Fortive-related.
I mentioned Pacific Laser Systems in my earlier comment but there were a couple other smaller situations that we were able to complete during the quarter for Fortive's benefit along with a couple on the Danaher side.
So I think the fourth quarter was indicative perhaps of some things opening up a bit.
I think the environment is generally a favorable one for businesses like ours with a balance sheet that's ready to deploy into small and midsized situations.
And I think to your question there are some folks who are perhaps a bit more on the sidelines right now than in previous days.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Shannon O'Callaghan of UBS.
Your line is open.
Morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Shannon.
Hey.
So Test &amp; Measurement and Industrial Tech are both generating pretty good core margin expansion here despite these mid-single-digit declines.
Can you give a little more color on how they're managing to do that? I mean both of them have pretty good leverage in the models so that's a lot to offset.
And what's going on in those businesses and can they continue? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Shannon it is a real testament to those businesses given the challenging environment they're in from a core growth perspective that they are getting the operating margin lift that they're getting without the benefit of the top line dropping that through.
I think it is a testament to the strength of the Danaher Business System the tools that we use not just in newly-acquired businesses but in businesses with long histories with Danaher that have gotten a lot done using DBS in the past and are still getting it done.
If you think about some of the businesses in T&amp;M be it Fluke and the associated acquisitions around Fluke that have been done quite a number of years ago think about other businesses like Qualitrol like some of the businesses in our automation sensors and controls areas.
Those guys are using DBS whether those are lean tools specifically in the plants or deploying those tools in areas of SG&amp;A they're just demonstrating that those tools are still highly effective in businesses with long histories with Danaher.
So it's kudos to those guys and they continue to get her done.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then you talked a little bit about the diagnostic comps and things but Radiometer that's been one that seemed like it was just going to grow to the sky forever in the equipment business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right.
Was a little weaker there.
So maybe a little – just color anything there to be concerned about.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah no.
Radiometer is a tremendous business with a long track record of high single-digit growth at Danaher.
I'm sure Matt or Dan can find how many quarters it's been but it's quite a number of them in a row that we've been high single-digits and taking share.
It's a high consumables business.
It's probably in the 80% neighborhood of consumables so the days impact was fairly significant there.
They also had a challenging comp in the fourth quarter on the instrumentation side a couple of big orders that had some impact there.
So I think Radiometer is in as good a shape today as it's ever been.
No meaningful shift in the competitive dynamics there so we still feel very good about it.
I think there was anything there Shannon that wouldn't be unique to Radiometer it's simply the fact that some of the growth that we have seen in the high-growth markets while still strong in places like China and India are still now very weak in Latin America in Russia in the Middle East.
And so even our best businesses are probably going to feel a little bit the impact there.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Shannon.
Our next question comes from Brandon Couillard of Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Just back on the Dental business Dan any chance you could give us the impact of the fewer days on core growth overall and how should we think about margin expansion for the year? Well it has less of an impact on equipment.
We were up slightly in the quarter.
It's the first time we've been up albeit modestly but it impacts consumables probably up and as Tom alluded to probably 1.5 points 2 points when it comes to consumables.
Good progress on the margin side granted we had a pretty weak performance a year ago so part of it was a comp.
But we've also took part of our incremental restructuring here in Q4 with the Dental so we should see some continued margin expansion coming out of Dental hopefully with a little better growth than what we've seen here in 2015.
That's all I got.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Brandon.
Our next question comes from Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Julian.
Hi.
Just a question around Western Europe.
I think I heard you say that sales were down slightly in Q4 having been up sort of around a mid-single-digit pace in the nine-month period.
I think a lot of other companies have sort of been saying Europe's okay.
So maybe just talk a little bit about what you saw there specific countries or segments that slowed down.
Hey Julian.
I mean I think that was one of the areas versus what we expected at the beginning of the quarter that surprised us a little bit to the downside.
It wasn't dramatic.
Clearly our consumables businesses over there were impacted by the selling days and maybe we were not as well calibrated as we should've been.
But having gone through all – most of the business here's – in the first couple of weeks here the tone in Europe is still decent and it doesn't feel like the step-down that our numbers in Q4 would suggest.
And we think we'll get back to sort of modest growth here pretty quickly in 2016.
Watching that carefully because it probably caught us a little bit by surprise here in the fourth quarter but again the tone still seems pretty good.
Understood.
Thank you.
And you laid out the overall EPS seasonality through the year about just over a month ago.
Maybe just talk a little bit about the Pall seasonality of that $0.40 particularly given the industrial organic sales trend in that business right now and how you would contrast that $0.40 impact versus overall Danaher.
Well the $0.40 should ramp during the year as we go after costs.
Again we were able to get some more things done in December and that was inclusive of Pall as well so we're getting it out of the gate a little bit faster in Q1 from a margin perspective.
I think the offset as you suggest is the industrial side.
So I think we'll get nice accretion here in Q1 but it'll clearly ramp through the year.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Julian.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz of Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Obviously good performance in margin in the quarter.
Are raw materials – lower raw material costs helping at all with price cost? Did price cost – was it stable in 4Q versus 3Q? Did it improve? I know you mentioned covering FX but are raw materials helping at all? I don't have any great analysis on that yet.
Given our gross margin raw materials tend to be less of a factor for us than a lot of other companies you might cover.
We are continuing to get price still getting 60 basis points 70 basis points and it's hard not to think raw materials are helping us a little bit but for us it's really on the margin.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then how do you get visibility into what to forecast for example in the Middle East? I mean the region looks like it inflected down a bit in 4Q.
And with oil's recent leg down how difficult is it to get visibility? And what do you forecast for 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Andrew there's a couple of different ways to come at that in the Middle East.
One is simply conversations with distribution partners and a lot of what we do in the Middle East does involve some form of a distributor partner and making sure that we have transparency as much as we possibly can into the opportunity funnels that those distributors are seeing as well as making sure that the conversations we're having with our own sales team around those funnels as they roll up to our leadership team are as well pressure tested as possible.
The key thing about markets like the Middle East is particularly in businesses like ours you have a fairly high level of project or tender-related business and – at least on the equipment side.
And so really making sure that we understand opportunity funnels and are not overly optimistic about the timing within which funding will be released as in many cases that funding has some governmental influence to it is really important.
It is easy to have a sales team get overly optimistic that the timing of funding release is going to be the same as it was a year ago or two years ago when the reality is things may have slowed down and tenders may be being let at a much slower pace.
So being diligent about how we pressure test those funnels is key.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> So it's fair to say you're being pretty conservative with the Middle East forecast.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're trying to be increasingly conservative as we see how government funding is being influenced.
I think it was interesting watching the course of the year.
Oil continued to drop as you know throughout the course of the year and yet we actually saw our Middle East numbers hang in there reasonably well throughout the middle part of the year and it wasn't until the latter part of the year that we saw a more acute shift in the Middle East.
And so there was a little bit of a lag there and it's taken a bit of time for the team to fully recalibrate.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks Tom.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
And we'll take our final question from Deane Dray of RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Deane.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hey just a quick question on R&amp;D spending overall came in lighter year-over-year and versus our estimates.
Did you throttle back on any spending or is that just timing of some of the projects? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
As you probably saw in the numbers that we put out Deane we're showing R&amp;D down about 20 basis points but the reality is is that that was primarily influenced by Pall.
And R&amp;D spending normalized for the Pall influence was actually up on the quarter.
So we're continuing to make sure that innovation is a key priority for the businesses and that R&amp;D spending is maintained to the greatest extent possible for the opportunities that we think have the greatest impact in the next year or two.
Okay.
And then just last question from me is the incremental restructuring done in December did you say what portion of that was Danaher versus Fortive? It was roughly the split you'd expect 70%/30%.
And that 70% is Danaher inclusive of Pall.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Deane.
And I'd be happy to turn the program back over to our hosts.
Thanks Leo.
Thanks everyone for joining us.
We're around all day for questions.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's Danaher Corporation's Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Results Conference Call.
You may now all disconnect your lines and everyone have a great day.