Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Deluxe Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Mary and I will be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call Mr.
Jeff Johnson Treasurer Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Mary.
Welcome to Deluxe Corporation's 2011 First Quarter Earnings Call.
I'm Jeff Johnson Deluxe's Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Joining me on the call today are Lee Schram Deluxe's Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson Deluxe's Chief Financial Officer.
Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts after the prepared comments.
At that time the operator will instruct you how to ask a question.
In accordance with Regulation FD this call is open to all interested parties.
A replay of the call will be available via telephone and Deluxe's Website.
I will provide instructions for accessing the replay at the conclusion of our teleconference.
Before I begin let me make this brief cautionary statement.
Comments made today regarding financial estimates and projections and any other statements addressing management's intentions and expectations regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause results to differ from those projected are contained in the news release that we issued this morning and in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31<sup>st </sup> 2010.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which is posted in the News and Investor Relations section of our Website <a href="http://www.deluxe.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.deluxe.com</u></a>.
In particular any non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I will turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
In the continued sluggish economic environment we delivered another strong quarter and are off to a solid start to the year.
We reported revenue at the top of our expected range while adjusted earnings per share was above the high end of our range.
Both Small Business Services and Direct Checks grew over the prior year.
Checks and forms both performed well against our expectations and business services revenues grew 19% over the prior year.
We had strong execution against our cost reduction program.
Improved product mix drove better-than-expected EPS.
Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations grew 3% over our strong prior year.
We generated strong operating cash flow and we were not drawn on our credit facility as we ended the quarter.
We issued $200 million in new eight-year senior notes and repurchased almost 70% of our 2012 notes and $10 million of our 2014 notes.
In early April we completed the acquisition of Bankers Dashboard to expand our financial services analytics and profitability services capability.
We continued to invest in improved brand awareness to help better position our new business services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also expanded our process improvement and cost reduction initiatives while driving strong operating cash flow as we continue to transform Deluxe.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of $0.63 which included losses of $0.10 per share on long-term debt repurchases in the quarter and restructuring-related costs of $0.02.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $0.75 was $0.02 favorable to the upper end of our previous outlook and 3% higher than the $0.73 reported in the first quarter of 2010.
Favorable product mix drove better-than-expected EPS performance.
The restructuring-related costs were primarily driven by infrastructure consolidations.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $350 million which was right at the upper end of the range of our previous outlook.
Revenue was up 4% from 2010 and was roughly flat on a sequential quarterly basis.
Small Business Services revenue of $200 million also grew 4% versus last year.
While we continue to operate in a weak economic environment we did deliver growth in business services the Safeguard distributor channel and Canada and our core printing business benefited from a routine price increase.
Financial Services revenue of $88 million was down 13% versus the first quarter of last year but was flat on a sequential quarterly basis with the fourth quarter of 2010.
The impact of price increases and higher non-check services revenue as more than offset by the amortization of a 2009 contract settlement in the prior-year quarter and lower check orders.
Excluding the impact of the contract settlement amortization revenue in Financial Services declined less than 6% from the last year.
Direct Checks revenue totaled $61.8 million and was up 49% on a year-over-year basis due to the Custom Direct acquisition.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition Direct Checks revenue was down only 5% due to lower check orders.
Gross margin for the quarter was 65.6% of revenue up slightly from 2010.
Benefits from price increases improvements in manufacturing productivity delivery initiatives and product mix were partly offset by increased delivery and material rates.
SG&amp;A expense increased $12.7 million in the quarter and was 45.9% of revenue compared to 44.2% of revenue in the same period last year.
Increased SG&amp;A associated with acquisitions brand awareness campaigns and investments in future revenue generating initiatives was partially offset by benefits from continuing to execute against our cost-reduction initiatives.
The first quarter of 2010 also included a $1.3 million tax-free gain from the maturity of company-owned life insurance policies.
Excluding restructuring-related costs operating margin for the quarter of 19.7% was down from the 20.8% generated in 2010 but was above our expectations with favorability coming from strong revenue performance including favorable product mix all three segments delivered strong operating margins compared to expectations.
Excluding restructuring costs Small Business Services operating margin of 18.3% was up 2.9 percentage points over last year due to higher revenue from both price increases and growth in Business Services as well as continued progress with cost reduction initiatives.
Financial Services operating margin of 18.4% was down 5.4 points from 2010 due to the favorable contract settlement amortization in 2010 and lower volumes as well as higher investment spending in 2011.
Direct Checks operating margin of 26.4% decreased 11.8 points from 2010 reflecting the April 2010 acquisition of Custom Direct but was in line with the fourth quarter margin as we continue to realize planned synergies from integrating this acquisition.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements during the quarter we repaid the $7 million that was outstanding on our credit facility at the end of 2010.
We also increased our cash and cash equivalents balance by $15 million.
As previously announced we leveraged the favorable high yield market in the first quarter just before the interest rate started to increase and opportunistically strengthened our capital structure.
In March we repurchased $195 million of our 2012 notes at a premium plus accrued interest and issued $200 million of new 7% notes due in 2019.
We also repurchased $10 million of our 2014 notes at a slight premium.
In addition we repurchased $6 million of common shares to offset dilution from employee plans.
Cash provided by operating activities was $61.1 million.
The increase from last year was due to stronger operating performance partially offset by higher interest and contract acquisition payments.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $8 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $20 million.
In early April we purchased Bankers Dashboard for $35 million cash plus approximately 193 000 shares of restricted common stock.
The purchase was funded with cash on hand and drawing our credit facility.
The acquisition is expected to be EPS-neutral in 2011 after absorbing acquisition-related amortization expense.
Given our strong performance in the first quarter we are improving our consolidated revenue outlook for the year to a range of $1.385 billion to $1.420 billion.
At the high end of the range we are only expecting a slight improvement in the economic conditions in the second half of the year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to range from $2.90 to $3.10 excluding $0.17 related to losses on the repurchase of long-term debt and restructuring and transaction-related costs.
Although we now expect to incur a dilutive $0.05 per share due to higher interest expense we have not changed the upper end of our EPS range.
Improved operating performance including our strong first quarter results and a lower tax rate is expected to offset the added interest and the impact of higher shares outstanding.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full-year outlook versus 2010 including Small Business Services revenue is expected to increase in the low-to-mid single digits range as volume declines in core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from price increases our e-commerce investments and double-digit growth in our business services offerings.
We expect Financial Services revenue to decline in the low-to-mid single digits range with check order declines of approximately 7% to 8% driven by increases in other forms of electronic payments and lower revenue per order which will be partially offset by a new large customer win which is expected to begin contributing volume early in the third quarter and increase in contributions from non-check revenue streams including notes from the recently acquired Bankers Dashboard.
Direct Checks revenue increased in the mid-single digits driven by a full-year impact of Custom Direct partially offset by the declines in the continued weak economy.
Additional cost and expense reductions; employee merit increases which we reinstated this year after a two-year freeze; increases in material and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including business services brand awareness direct response campaigns web to print and enhanced Internet capabilities; an increase interest expense of $0.05 per diluted share primarily due to the refinancing of $195 million of 5% notes due next year with $200 million of new 7% notes not due until 2019; the effective tax rate of approximately 33%; and higher average shares outstanding.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging between $215 million and $230 million in 2011 driven by stronger earnings continued progress on working capital initiatives and slightly lower contract acquisition payments which we expect to be approximately $20 million.
The increase from our previous outlook is due to lower expected tax payments.
2011 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $35 million down 20% from 2010.
We plan to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment in IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is now expected to be $72 million including $23 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the second quarter of 2011 we expect revenue to range from $340 million to $348 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $0.66 to $0.71 which includes $0.02 per share of higher interest expense as compared to our previous outlook.
In comparison to 2010 the listed factors affecting our full-year outlook are similar to those affecting the second quarter except the second quarter will not benefit from the new national financial institution client since we are not expecting to start producing their checks until early third quarter and revenue in Financial Services is expected to be comparable to the last couple of quarters.
In comparison to the first quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be lower in the second quarter due primarily to three factors.
First historically Direct Checks revenues are strongest in the first quarter thus we expect a sequential revenue decline in this segment.
Second we expect to ramp the level of our brand awareness spend in the second quarter and lastly higher interest expense.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small-to-medium sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level as well as repurchase shares to offset dilution.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities we plan to pay down debt in order to further strengthen our balance sheet.
We believe our strong cash flow strength in balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid quarter and remain on track for delivering our $65 million target for the year.
These savings again will not necessarily be linear through the quarters as we expect a larger percentage of the total year reductions in the second half of the year.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2011 will continue to be on improving sales and marketing back-end operations through process centralization simplification platform and tools consolidation and leveraging e-commerce capabilities.
In the first quarter we announced that we will be closing our Phoenix Call Center which we expect to be completed in the fourth quarter.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog in online search engine marketing.
For fulfillment we expect to continue our lean product standardization reduction and direct and indirect spend reduction initiatives plus further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
We also expect to realize a full year’s worth of savings with having installed our fully automated flat check package processing equipment in 2010 the last installation of which was completed in the fourth quarter.
In the first quarter we announced the closure of one of our smaller business products fulfillment sites which will be consolidated into a large site in the second half of the year.
Finally for the Shared Services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce costs in all areas as more opportunities exist to centralize streamline standardize and improve efficiencies.
Now I will turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on what we are focused on overall and then highlight progress in each of our three segments.
I will also include throughout a perspective on what we hope to accomplish during the balance of 2011.
In 2011 our primary focus is on revenue growth as we now have what we believe is the best products and services portfolio in the history of the company.
Our improved solutions start with more differentiated technology-led check offers through investments in automated flat check packaging digital printing and online portals and dashboards.
They also include enhanced Internet and web-to-print capabilities and improved segmentation and distributor and dealer channel expansion.
Finally the most significant new solutions growth opportunity is new business services including web services logo design search engine marketing payroll and fraud and security services plus offers that help financial institutions with customer acquisition regulatory compliance and profitability.
All new business services are expected to generate approximately $155 million to $165 million in revenue in 2011 up from approximately $122 million in 2010.
So we expect to continue to build scale capability here.
We will continue to assess potential small-to-medium sized acquisitions that complement our large customer bases with a focus on new business services.
We also continue to refine our channel capabilities.
In addition to financial institutions and direct-to-the-consumer we have strengthened our channels in small business to include online retail wholesale distributors dealers and national accounts.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses get and keep customers and helping small-to-mid sized financial institutions with customer acquisition regulatory compliance and profitability offers.
These new solutions and channels are driving new differentiated opportunities for us to execute on our strategic focus and will further enable us to deliver the best personalized customer experience while offering one of the broadest products and services portfolios in each market we serve.
In addition to the items just mentioned in order to accelerate revenue growth we are continuing to invest more in brand awareness and positioning.
We started last year through test and learn brand awareness and direct response advertisements including radio online television and our small business mobile tour events.
Based on our learnings we are expanding but refining our focus.
We continue to invest in the first quarter and as planned we will ramp advertising starting more in the second quarter and through the third quarter primarily through network and national public radio but also in the second quarter through television advertising on CNN and Headline News.
In addition we will advertise on Entrepreneur.com Martha Stewart Money Businessweek FastCompany.com Time.com and others.
Further we will also invest in events where small businesses actively participate and we will continue with projects (inaudible).
Our year-long marketing lab sponsored by Deluxe designed to build marketing expertise for small businesses.
We expect all of these activities to help us drive revenue growth overtime as the economy improves.
We are getting better and better at measuring our return performance from these brand initiatives and this will determine the size and extent of investment levels overtime.
Now shifting to our segments.
In Small Business Services as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remained sluggish.
We had strong performance however especially later in the quarter as revenue came in at the high end of our expectations and grew 4% in the quarter.
Checks and forms were strong.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
We increased new customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage Referral Program and through our direct response campaigns.
Response rates increased from better balanced and enriched content in online and print-based spend.
Average order value in conversion rates remained strong.
Our Safeguard distributor channel and Canada showed organic revenue growth over the prior year.
We also saw growth in web logo and payroll services.
In the quarter we won nine North America and Europe wholesale web services deals and also continued to expand additional value-add services on top of our core retail web services offer.
We began to see some revenue expansion in the search engine marketing space through signing up new media partners and introducing a retail offer that included roughly 20% of existing Deluxe customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market and even though optimism indices rose the first two months of the year they took a step back in March and remained choppy in recessionary territories.
We are not seeing the surge that could lead to economic growth.
Small businesses are beginning to hire although they remain cautious here.
In capital investment spending although improving remains low.
We continue to spend less scrutinize purchases more and experienced tight cash flow.
Less than 10% of small businesses believe that business conditions will improve over the next six months.
In summary although an improving trend current optimism indices are still below end of 2007 levels.
The good news is that increasing sales continues to be a small business owner’s Number 1 paying point and we now offer many products and services to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more business services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as an indispensible partner for growth.
Our focus for the balance of 2011 is on acquiring new customers increasing our share of wallet through our enhanced Shop Deluxe e-commerce site growing distributor and channel partners implementing web-to-print offers and improving segmentation.
We will continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our inbound outbound and online customer touch points to maximize revenue scale capabilities.
In New Business Services we expect to continue to gain new customers through our telco-focused wholesale web services model including South America expansion; add customers and services in our retail model; add marketing services; payroll services and logo customers; and continue to expand our search engine marketing customer base.
We also will look for opportunities to add more business services on our unified technology platform.
In Financial Services we continued to proactively extend contracts and still have only two smaller size national accounts due in 2012 that we continue to work to extend.
Again this quarter we saw strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current year in excess of 90%.
We are still finalizing contract terms and migration plans for a new large national financial institution that we now expect will start early in the third quarter that is included in our outlook.
We did receive word in the first quarter that we did not win one of the other large national competitive opportunities we had been pursuing.
While commending us on our value proposition and differentiated offer the financial institution said they could not afford the disruption of a migration given other internal competing priorities.
There still remains a significant number of competitive opportunities through 2012.
In the quarter we did see the rate of decline of checks performed right in the range of our forecasted rate of around 7% to 8%.
We also simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
In the quarter we announced the expected closure in the fourth quarter of our Phoenix Call Center.
Our new transformed customer self-service portal and dashboard tools introduced in the second quarter of 2010 have now been deployed to just about all of our financial institutions.
At the same time in the first quarter and then continuing in the second quarter we invested and will invest organically in both the customer acquisition and regulatory compliance areas for expected second half of the year revenue generating opportunities.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check revenue growth services opportunities.
Revenue grew over last year in these non-check services which include customer acquisition regulatory compliance rewards checking and other profitability offers.
We saw continued growth from our Cornerstone acquisition.
We also introduced late in the first quarter a new regulatory compliance offer which is a comprehensive web-based service to help our financial institution clients manage through the challenging demands of the regulatory environment.
Also early in the second quarter we completed a small tuck-in acquisition of Bankers Dashboard.
This brings us a software as a service financial management tool that provides community banks with instant daily on-demand access to data to help improve their performance and their profitability.
We also believe it will help community banks with managing the increasing regulatory climate.
We expect this acquisition will help us scale regulatory and profitability services offers more quickly and robustly for our financial institutions.
As you can see momentum continues to build in these non-check revenue initiatives.
In Direct Checks revenue was slightly higher than our expectations driven by accelerated reorder rates and strong Custom Direct up-sell revenues.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to consumers.
We also continue to be very pleased with the integration of Custom Direct as we leverage the best of both Direct Checks and Custom Direct into a best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up-sell capabilities.
In addition cost reduction activities continue with savings occurring a material procurement delivery media and marketing expense leverage and other SG&amp;A.
We expect continued revenue enhancement and cost reductions over the balance of 2011.
For 2011 we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits range driven by the Custom Direct acquisition and accelerated reorder rates partially offset by declines in consumer check usage and spending in the continued weak economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing costs and SG&amp;A in this segment and maintain our operating margins in the high 20s for set range including acquisition amortization while generating strong cash flow.
As we exit the first quarter on the heels of a very strong quarterly performance and a continued sluggish economy we have made good progress again in transforming Deluxe but we still have a lot of work and opportunities ahead of us in the balance of 2011.
We are only expecting the economic climate to improve slightly in the second half of the year at the high end of our outlook range.
As I indicated earlier our primary focus is on revenue growth and we are investing in our future with better products and services offers in all three customer segments and an improved brand awareness campaign.
We are playing offence making positive strategic moves to reposition the company for sustainable longer-term revenue growth.
If the economy improves we should have upside in Small Business Services revenue as we know it is important for us to continue to demonstrate growth in this segment.
At the same time we will not take our eyes off of cost reductions and process improvements and we expect to continue to generate strong cash flows and provide a very attractive dividend.
And now Mary will open the line and Terry Jeff and I will address the questions.
(Operator instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Charles Strauzer CJS Securities.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning.
Hi Charles.
Hi two quick things.
One is if you could expand a little bit more on your discussion about the Financial Services segment if flat from Q4 and it sounded pretty decent percentage year-over-year.
Can you give a little more color into kind of what the mechanisms are in that segment right now? I think actually it’s pretty simple here.
If you think about the quarter we perform in the unit check decline of about in that 7% to 8% range.
We had the price increase that we talked about in the January call starting to come into play and we improved our performance in the non-check area.
And so the real number is really down in the less than 6% range.
And then we again had the hurdle that we discussed last year and just reminded everybody on the call of the 2009 contract settlement that hit in the first quarter of last year.
So I think it’s pretty set pretty straightforward and really came in pretty much exactly in line of what we expected.
Okay great.
And then maybe Terry if you can just give me if you have the full-year assumption for D&amp;A just so we can kind of get our models right on that because it seems to be a little bit higher in Q1 than it has been in our models there? Yes the full-year D&amp;A was $72 million is what I said.
$72 million and $23 million of acquisition-related amortization.
So the $23 million is included as part of the $72 million.
Charlie I think you reacted because it was $20 million [ph] in Q1.
So obviously we expect it to improve over the balance of the year.
And what’s driving that Charlie is as we have stated on past calls too CDI has been short-lived intangible assets when we acquired that last April.
That’s set to roll off in the second quarter.
Great thanks a lot.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of John Kraft D.A.
Davidson.
Good morning guys.
Hi John.
Hi congrats on that win of the target [ph] in Q3.
I guess along those lines you addressed two those of three and you said there were some others can you quantify I mean are there five more or just a couple of more or what sort of a grouping are we look at for RFPs outstanding? This would say again as a significant number.
If you recall the question on the last call that we had and rather than getting the specific number what can happen sometimes John is that things get pushed out into a linear or they can through another quarter before an RFP comes out or before somebody makes a decision.
So the way I would just frame without giving a specific number there are still many opportunities out there that we are working and pursuing.
Okay.
That’s fair.
And if we can talk a little bit about what allowed you to win that contract I mean presumably there was some price in there but was it the business advantage was it – I mean what was it that really you could call out that was the difference and allowed you to win that contract? John I think what we are focused on when we are going out with our customers right now is we have invested in what we call technology in the check space.
So we are believer in the flat check package for delivery we believe it allows us to have a potentially lower rate that we can charge through the banks and they can charge on to their customers because it’s lower to ship that package and a parcel package.
We also invested in the latest digital technology and we have the online tools and dashboards for our clients as well.
Another thing that helped with this deal was they also liked the reach of some of our other non-check initiatives.
So the client that we won here they actually liked the customer acquisition and initiatives that we have and are very interested in some of the offers that we have in that space.
And again while we haven’t started with them yet we do expect that they are going to move on some of those over the life of the contract.
So I think it’s just a look at holistically what Deluxe has to offer.
And John as you know of course you have to be competitive from a pricing standpoint but I think it’s all those other pieces it’s just a differentiated play.
Got you.
And Terry I think I must have missed this can you clarify what your expectations are for taxes? I think you had said it’s expected to be lower going forward but did you give a specific? Yes the full-year rate is expected to be about 33% in our adjusted EPS guidance.
33% okay.
You said 34% before I think okay.
34% was what we had originally guided.
Great thanks guys.
See you in a couple of weeks.
Okay John.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Davis Hebert of Wells Fargo Good morning.
Just a quick housekeeping question what was your revolver balance at the end of Q1 and what is it post the acquisition? The revolver balance at the end of first quarter was actually nothing.
We had nothing drawn on that at the end of March and we did $35 million cash purchase for Bankers Dashboard and we indicated that we funded that partially with cash on hand and partially with credit facilities.
We usually don’t give out interim (inaudible) what our borrowings are in that facility.
Okay.
So the debt as it stands of $331 million [ph] consists only of bonds including the newly placed ones in March? That is correct.
Okay.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
There are no other questions in queue.
I would like to hand the call to Lee Schram.
Okay.
Again thank you everybody for your participation and for those that asked questions we appreciate that.
Again as I normally say we are going to get back to work now and we look forward to providing a positive progress support at our next earnings call and I will turn it back to Jeff to wrap up.
Thank you Lee.
This is a reminder that a replay of this call will be available until May 12<sup>th</sup> by dialing 888-286-8010.
When instructed provide the access code 98653998.
The accompanying slides are archived in the News and Investor Relations section of Deluxe's Website at www.deluxe.com.
Again thank you for joining us have a good afternoon.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Deluxe Corp Earnings Conference Call.
My name is (Keisha) and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will conduct the question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like hand the conference over to Mr.
Jeff Johnson Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you (Keisha).
Welcome to Deluxe Corporation’s 2011 second quarter earnings call.
I’m Jeff Johnson Deluxe’s Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Joining me on the call today are Lee Schram Deluxe’s Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson Deluxe’s Chief Financial Officer.
Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts after the prepared comments.
At that time the operator will instruct you how to ask a question.
In accordance with Regulation FD this call is open to all interested parties the replay of the call will be available via telephone and Deluxe's website.
I will provide instructions for accessing the replay at the conclusion of our teleconference.
Before I begin let me make this brief cautionary statement.
Comments made today regarding financial estimates and projections and any other statements addressing management's intentions and expectations regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the news release that we issued this morning and in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which is posted in the News and Investor Relations section of our website www.deluxe.com and was furnished to be SEC on the Form-8K filed this morning.
In particular any non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
In a continued sluggish economic environment we delivered another strong quarter.
We reported revenue at the upper end of our expected outlook and adjusted earnings per share were well above the high-end of our outlook.
Small Business Services revenue grew 5% which was our strongest quarterly growth rate since the NEBS acquisition back in 2004.
Checks and forms both performed well against our expectations.
And marketing and other services revenues grew 9% over the prior year by 18% excluding a very strong Reg E performance in the prior year quarter.
We had strong execution against our cost reduction program.
Improved product mix and a lower tax rate drove better than expected results.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 10% over a strong prior year.
Operating cash flow was strong and we are only slightly drawn on our credit facility as we ended the quarter.
We repurchased $12 million in shares to help offset dilution from the Banker’s Dashboard acquisition and from employee plans.
In early July we completed the acquisition of PsPrint to extend our capability in the fast growing web-to-print market.
We continue to invest and improve brand awareness to help better position our marketing and other services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced our process improvement and cost reduction initiatives while driving strong operating cash flow as we continue to transform Deluxe.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of $0.68 which included charges of $0.07 per share from restructuring and transaction related costs.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $0.75 a $0.04 favorable for the upper end of our previous outlook and 10% higher than the $0.68 reported in the second quarter of 2010.
Favorable product mix and a lower tax rate drove better than expected EPS performance.
The restructuring and transaction related costs were primarily driven by infrastructure consolidations and acquisition related expenses.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $346 million which was at the upper end of the range of our previous outlook.
Revenue was basically flat from 2010 and down only slightly on a sequential quarterly basis.
Small Business Services revenue of $203 million grew 5% versus last year which was our strongest quarterly growth rate since the NEBS acquisition 2004.
While we continue to operate in a weak economic environment we did deliver growth in marketing and other services our Safeguard distributor and dealer channel and Canada.
Financial Services revenue of $87 million was down 12% versus the second quarter of last year but was nearly flat on a sequential quarterly basis with both the last two quarters.
The impact of price increases was more than offset by the remaining amortization of a 2009 contract settlement in the prior year quarter and lower check orders.
Excluding the impact of the contract settlement amortization revenue in Financial Services declined less than 6% from last year.
Direct Checks revenue totaled $56 million essentially flat on a year-over-year basis.
However the Custom Direct part of the business grew nearly 8% in the quarter as planned revenue synergies and six extra business days more than offset lower check orders.
Gross margin for the quarter was 65.1% of revenue up slightly from 2010.
Benefits from price increases improvements in manufacturing productivity and delivery initiatives were partly offset by increased delivery in material rates.
SG&amp;A expense decreased $3.2 million in the quarter; it was 45.5% of revenue compared to 46.2% of revenue in the same period last year.
Increased SG&amp;A associated with acquisitions brand awareness campaigns and investments and revenue generating initiatives were more than offset by benefits from continuing to execute against our cost reduction initiative.
Excluding the restructuring and transaction related costs operating margins for the quarter of 19.9% was up from the 18.9% generated in 2010 that was above our expectations with favorability coming from strong revenue performance including favorable product mix.
All three segments delivered strong operating margins compared to expectations.
Excluding the restructuring and transaction related costs Small Business Services operating margin of 17.9% was up 2.2 percentage points over last year due to price increases and continued progress with cost reduction initiatives.
Financial Services operating margin of 18% was down 2.7 points from 2010 due to the favorable contract settlement amortization in 2010 and lower volume as well as higher investment spending in 2011.
Direct Checks operating margin of 30.1% increased 3.2 points from 2010 as we continue to realize planned synergies from integrating Custom Direct and acquisition related amortization begins to roll off.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements.
Total debt at the end of the quarter $753 million compared to $755 million at the end of 2010.
This decrease was primarily driven by improved operating performance which was mostly offset by the April 2011 purchase of Banker's Dashboard for $35 million cash and $80 million of common share repurchases 12 of which was in the second quarter to offset dilution from the Banker's Dashboard acquisition and from employee plans.
Cash provided by operating activities for the first half of the year was $104 million.
The increase from last year was due to stronger operating performance and lower income tax severance and contract acquisition payment.
Capital expenditures for the first six months were $19 million depreciation and amortization expense was $39 million.
In early July we purchased PsPrint for approximately $45 million in cash.
The purchase was funded with the draw in our credit facility.
The acquisition is expected to generate revenue of approximately $15 million during the balance of 2011 and the EPS neutral in 2011 after absorbing transaction cost and acquisition related amortization expense.
Given our strong performance in the second quarter and a PsPrint acquisition we are improving our consolidated revenue outlook for the year to a range of $1.41 billion to $1.435 billion.
The high-end of the range we are no longer expecting any improvement in the economic conditions in the second half of the year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to range from $3 to $3.15 excluding $0.23 related to losses on the repurchase of long-term debt and restructuring and transaction related costs.
Improved operating performance including our strong second quarter results and ongoing favorable product mix is expected to drive improved earnings performance.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full-year outlook versus 2010 including Small Business Services revenue including PsPrint acquisition is expected to increase in the middle to upper single digits range as volume declines in core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from price increases our e-commerce investments double-digit growth in our marketing and other services offerings and revenues from the PsPrint acquisition.
We expect Financial Services revenue to decline in the mid to upper single-digits range with check order declines of approximately 7% to 8% driven by increases in electronic payments and lower revenue per order.
These decreases will be partially offset by a new large customer win which is expected to begin contributing volume in the fourth quarter and increasing contributions from non-check revenue streams including those from Banker’s Dashboard.
Direct Checks revenue increased in the mid single-digits driven by a full year impact of the Custom Direct acquisition partially offset by check declines in a continued weak economy.
Additional cost and expense reductions employee merit increases which we reinstated in the first quarter of this year after a two year freeze increases in material and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including marketing and other services brand awareness direct response campaigns web-to-print and enhanced internet capabilities.
An increase in interest expense of $0.05 per diluted share primarily due to the March refinancing of $195 million a 5% note due next year with $200 million of new 7% note not due until 2019.
an effective tax rate of approximately 33% and higher average shares outstanding.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging between $218 and $228 million in 2011 driven by stronger earnings and slightly lower contract acquisition payments which we expect to be approximately $20 million.
2011 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $35 million down 20% from 2010.
The plans to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment in IT infrastructure.
Deprecation and amortization expense is now expected to be $74 million including $21 million of acquisition related amortization.
For the third quarter of 2011 we expect revenue to range from $353 million to $361 million.
Adjusted dilutive earnings per share are expected to range from $0.71 to $0.77.
In comparison to 2010 the list of factors affecting our full-year outlook are similar to those affecting the third quarter except the third quarter will not benefit from the new national financial institutional plan since we are not expecting to start producing their checks until the middle of the fourth quarter.
In comparison to the second quarter adjusted EPS at the mid-point of the range in the third quarter is expected to be inline with the second quarter as higher revenue volumes driven the PsPrint acquisition are only expected to be EPS neutral.
Additional contributions from higher marketing and other services revenue is expected to be offset by brand awareness spend which would be at its highest level of the year in the third quarter.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically enter small to medium sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level and repurchase shares to offset dilution.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities we plan to pay down debt in order to further strengthen our balance sheet.
We believe our strong cash flow strength in balance sheet the flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid quarter and remain on track for delivering our $65 million target for the year.
Again these savings will not be linear through the quarter as we expect a larger percentage of the total year reductions in the second half of the year with an even higher rating in the fourth quarter.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2011 will continue to be on improving sales and marketing back-end operations through process centralization simplification platform and tool consolidation and leveraging e-commerce capabilities.
In the first quarter we announced we will be closing our Phoenix call center which we now expect to be completed in the third quarter.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lien product standardization spoilage reduction and direct and indirect spend reduction initiatives plus further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
We also expect to realize a full years worth of savings from our fully automated flat check package processing equipment the last installation of which was completed in fourth quarter of 2010.
In the first quarter we also announced the closure of one of our smaller business products fulfillment site which will be consolidated into a larger site in July.
Finally for the shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce cost in all areas as more opportunities exist to centralize streamline standardize and improve efficiencies.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on what we're focused on overall and then highlight progress in each of our three segments.
I will also include throughout a prospective on what we hope to accomplish during the balance of 2011.
Our primary focus continues to be is on revenue growth.
In the second quarter we had strong performance in check space with high demand for our new Hologram Checks and SPS and better revenue per order rates in Direct Checks from improving our sales of additional accessories in Custom Direct.
We also continued to improve on our differentiated technology led check offers through investments in the direct-to-consumer segment in digital printing and flat check packages.
For business products we continued to enhance our Internet and segmentation capabilities and we grew revenue in the Internet distributor and dealer channels.
Finally we are introducing new terminology for what we have been calling business services primarily due to the PsPrint acquisition.
It is a more comprehensive name called marketing and other services.
You should think of this category as containing more of the faster growing spaces with checks and forms being more of the traditional core business.
Marketing and other services now include logo design web services social media search engine marketing payroll marketing and promotional web to print services and fraud and security services plus offers that help financial institutions with customer acquisition regulatory compliance and profitability.
These areas grew revenue 9% in the second quarter.
We invested organically in the second quarter in marketing and other services for our small business customers and also in customer acquisition and regulatory compliance for our financial institution customers.
In addition to organic investments in early July we also completed the acquisition of PsPrint.
Going forward we expect to continue to assess potential small to medium size acquisitions that compliment our large customer basis with a focus on the marketing and other services space.
PsPrint will compete in a market that is expected to grow on a compound annual basis over the next four years in the low 20% range and along with our increasing services revenue mix will help position us in higher multiple market spaces and continue to reduce our dependency on checks.
Going forward each quarter we plan to provide insight into our full year expectations as well as actual performance in the marketing and other services space as we know this area is critical to our continued transformation.
We are on track to generate approximately $170 million to $180 million in revenue in 2011 up from $122 million in 2010.
So we expect to continue to build scale capability here.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of over 12% against the mid point of our revenue range towards our goal of achieving a 25% mix over the strategic period and up from the 4% level to just a few years ago.
In addition to the items just mentioned in order to accelerate revenue growth we are continuing to invest in more in brand awareness and positioning.
We started last year through test and learn brand awareness and direct response advertisements including radio online television and our Small Business Hero mobile events.
Based on our learnings we have been expanding but refining our focus.
We continued to invest in the second quarter and as planned will ramp advertising to our highest level in the year in the third quarter primarily through network and national public radio.
But in addition we will advertise on entrepreneur.com Martha Stewart CNNMoney.com BusinessWeek fastcompany.com client.com and others.
Further we will also invest in evens for small businesses actively participate.
We also just completed the first year of project rev.
Our year long marketing lab designed to build marketing expertise for small businesses.
The nine small businesses we work with have significantly increased the size of their revenue since working with us by improving their marketing.
We plan to continue this project with our second year long class set to start at the beginning of 2012.
We expect all these activities to help us drive revenue growth over time as the economy improves.
We are getting better and better at measuring our return performance from these brand initiatives and this will determine the size and extent of investment levels over time.
Now shifting to our segments in Small Business Services as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remain sluggish.
We had strong performance however improving as we move through the quarter with revenue coming in at the high-end of our expectations and growing 5% in the quarter.
Checks and forms were strong.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
We increased new customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage Referral program and through our direct response campaigns.
Response rates increased from better balance and enriched content in online and print-based spend.
Average order value and conversion rates remain strong.
Our Safeguard distributor and dealer channels in Canada grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw growth in web search engine marketing and payroll services.
In the quarter we won a number of North and South America and Europe wholesale web services deals and also continued to expand additional value added services on top of our core retail web services offer.
We grew revenue over 50% sequentially in the quarter in the search engine marketing space by signing up new media partners and through a retail offer that is being cross sold.
20% of these search engine marketing sales have been made to existing Deluxe customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market optimism indices have declined now for four consecutive months and remain in recessionary territory.
We are not seeing the surge that should lead to economic growth.
Small businesses are only slowly hiring.
And they remain cautions in making any investments.
Capital spending although improving remains low they continue to spend less scrutinize purchases more and experience tight cash flow.
Small businesses outlook that business conditions will improve over the next six months declined in June to the lowest level in a year.
In summary current optimism indices had been trending downward and are still below end of 2007 levels.
The good news is that increasing sales continues to be a small business owner’s number one pain point.
And we now offer many products and services to help them here.
The economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that helps small businesses get and keep customers.
Deluxe is better positioned as an indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for the balance of 2011 is on acquiring new customers increasing our share of wallet through our enhanced shop Deluxe e-commerce site growing distributor and channel partners and improving segmentation.
We will continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our inbound outbound and online customer touch points to maximize revenue scale capability.
In marketing and other services we expect to continue to gain new customers through our Telco focused wholesale web services model including South America expansion.
Add customers and services in our retail model.
Add marketing services payroll services and logo customers and continue to expand our search engine marketing customer base.
PsPrint extents Deluxe’s existing core capabilities and provides a differentiated compelling solution that supports small businesses growth.
It provides us with an immediate annual revenue base of $30 million an expanded and leveragable base of 100 000 customers and brings together two very complementary sets of online solution and fulfillment workflow capabilities.
In the short-term our goal is to increase PsPrint’s revenue through additional customer acquisition programs and tactical improvement initiatives within the existing platform.
In the medium term our goal is to create a single best-in-class integrated platform that combines organic investments we have already made in front end customer experience with PsPrint’s strong back-end processes and scale web-to-print offers for our combined small business customers.
PsPrint’s management team will lead the web-to-print space with our team being integrated.
The acquisition of PsPrint plus the other acquisitions and organic investments we have made over the past few years fits within an overall strategy of providing technology and marketing solutions to our small business customers.
We thought it would be beneficial to share the model we are using to map our solutions with our customers needs as we continue to built on our platform of helping our small businesses get in key customers.
Think of it as a collective framework for all the tuck-in acquisitions partnerships and organic capability that we have created.
We can help small businesses throughout the entire lifecycle of their marketing needs as their maturity evolves.
Starting online with branding and promoting themselves through our LogoMojo logos Hostopia and Aplus.net hosting website mobile and lead capture capabilities.
We can help them get found online and get social through list management and social media capabilities from our PartnerUp acquisition and from partnerships in organic social media investments.
Next we are able to work with them to acquire customers online with PsPrint marketing and promotional services.
As well as through search engine optimization and email marketing through our Hostopia and easy contact products.
After that we can help them manage their marketing spend online through MerchEngines search engine marketing.
Finally we could help them to be efficient by pulling all these services together and providing educational collateral content best practices and access to their peer networks.
All of this breadth and depth with the best personalized customer experience to help them measure their results and manage their online business.
In Financial Services revenue was right inline with our comments from our last call of roughly the same revenue level as the first quarter.
We saw the rate of decline of checks perform right in our forecasted range of around 7% to 8% and remain stable throughout the quarter.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current year in excess of 90%.
We are still finalizing contract and migration plans for the new large national financial institution that we now expect will start in the middle of the fourth quarter that is included in our outlook.
There still remain a significant number of competitive opportunities through 2012 many of which are now commencing RFP process.
We also simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
We are on track actually accelerating to the third quarter the expected closure of our Phoenix call center.
In the second quarter we also invested organically in both the customer acquisition and regulatory compliance areas for expected second half of the year revenue generating opportunities.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing and other services revenue opportunities.
Revenue was about flat with the prior year quarter in these non-check services which included customer acquisitions regulatory compliance rewards checking and other profitability offers.
Performance was flat due to a very strong quarter last year in regulatory compliance with our Reg E overdraft protection offer that did not repeat this year.
We saw continued growth from our Cornerstone acquisition and we’re starting to see interest in our new regulatory compliance offer which again is a comprehensive web-based service to help our financial institution clients manage through the challenging demands of the regulatory environment.
The Banker’s Dashboard acquisition is performing quite well so far.
This brings us a software as a service financial management tool that provides community banks with instant daily on-demand access to data to help them improve their performance and profitability.
We also believe it will help community banks with managing the increasingly challenging regulatory climate.
We expect this acquisition will help us scale regulatory and profitability services offers more quickly and robustly for our financial institutions.
As you can see momentum continues to build in these non-check revenue initiatives.
In Direct Checks revenue was in line with our expectations driven by accelerated reorder rates and strong Custom Direct accessories revenue.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to consumers.
We also continue to be very pleased with the integration of Custom Direct as we leverage the best of both Direct Checks and Custom Direct into a best in class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting.
In addition cost reduction activities continue savings accruing and material procurement delivery media and marketing expense leverage and other SG&amp;A.
We expect continued revenue enhancements and cost reductions over the balance of 2011.
For 2011 we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits range driven by the Custom Direct acquisition and accelerator reorder rates partially offset by declines in consumer check usage and spending in a continued weak economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A and drive operating margins in Direct Checks in the high 20s percent range including acquisition amortization while generating strong cash flow.
As we exit the second quarter on the heels of a strong quarterly performance in a continued sluggish economy we have made good progress again in transforming Deluxe but we still have a lot of work and opportunities ahead of us in the balance of 2011.
We are now not expecting the economic climate to improve in the second half of the year at the high-end of our outlook range.
However even with no improvement expected in the economy and with the continued delay in on-boarding the new national account we have maintained a high-end of the range before adding in revenue for the PsPrint acquisition.
We are gaining confidence that we can grow revenue in Small Business Services even in a challenging economy.
As I indicated earlier our primary focus is on revenue growth.
And we are investing in our future with better product and services offers in all three customer segments and an improved brand awareness campaign.
We are playing offense making positive strategic moves to reposition the company for sustainable longer term revenue growth.
If the economy improves we should have further upside in Small Business Services revenue as we know it is important for us to continue to demonstrate growth in this segment.
At the same time we will not take our eyes off the cost reductions and process improvements and we expect to continue to generate strong cash flows and provide a very attractive dividend.
Now (Keisha) Terry Jeff and I will take questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Charlie Strauzer with CJS Securities.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Hey Charlie.
Hi Charlie.
Hey first of all just wanted to touch based on PsPrint acquisition it sounds like a very intriguing addition to the service offering and the question I have for you Lee is I know The Johnson Group was building out web-to-print capability and how is this different from what you were trying to do organically there? The way to think about whether Johnson Group really brought was more of a store front approach but not as nearly Charlie as robust is what we then started adding on from The Johnson Group and as I’ve said in the past of what we actually picked up with the Custom Direct acquisition was some front-end and back-end web-to-print capability as well.
So think of it as we now have the benefits that we got started with The Johnson Group the benefits we’ve picked up from Custom Direct started organically creating more strong technology at the front-end organically and we’ve been talking about that and we now just – we started to look at this is a great space.
Our customers are asking us more and more in this space to help them with marketing and promotional services.
So we said are there other opportunities out there and we were fortunate off to find a good match with PsPrint.
And again what I’ve said earlier is what we are trying to do Charlie is early on get more focused on better demand creation there and tweak a little bit of what we are doing to bring the two – all the platforms together here both in the front end and back end.
What I would call medium term we are trying to really bring it all together in to a seamless flow and again we’ve spend – investment already at the front end and think of it as our small business cannot just get those services but have other services that are capable to be played right off the PsPrint solution.
So we are actually just extremely excited about this because it not only brings pieces that we had before and the investments we’ve made in those at the forefront but it gives us some immediate larger scale capability than we had and having met the team of players there and the people its just a great cultural fit for us as well.
And Lee can you talk a little bit about PsPrints’ kind of growth history have they been seeing the same types of growth rates you have been experiencing in your services business deal? Yes that’s been growing and you got to remember Charlie that the print - the suffering that the print companies had when the recessionary period was going out but outside of that yes they’ve been growing and the thing that we like about them from a cultural fit as well as they – they want to make money at this and they are very strong operators and they are strong on the - not only on the top-line but as you know us and that leadership we have here focused on the bottom-line and then cash flow as well.
So year we’re very again very pleased and we’ve seen nice growth in what they have been doing.
Great.
And then thanks for some of the color you gave on the small business side in terms of not seeing the proverbial green shoots there yet but what are the kind of visibility can you see there when you are talking to some of the small business customers that are out there are they getting at least a little bit more optimistic? I think it’s tough.
I think when I listen in on calls and when I hear what’s going on with our customers either I meet them or I hear from our call center I listen in on calls I think what we like right now is the areas they are most struggling with is how do did they find business and how do they find customers and again that macro that kind of bridge that I walked through in the prepared comments on how we pieced all these acquisitions and organic investments and some of the partnership that we - investment that we have I think are hitting the mark more and more and again in my comment are giving us more confidence that as the economy gets better that small business is going to need the lean on this kind of services that we have.
So but I don’t want a make it sound like it’s is wonderful out there for small business right now is my - also send my prepared comments.
It’s a tough world for them right now.
I think what were we’re doing though is focused on that market area and that sales area with the services and the products that we have and I think it is resonating well for them right now and they’re getting value out of it.
(indiscernible) like the rest of the market there is a lot of uncertainty out there that’s really causing them to hold back.
So the healthcare is still uncertain to them taxes and all those pieces just really create a lot of uncertainty for them and they hold back and they are spending because of it.
Got it.
And Terry just one quick question on the amortization from the contract roll out are we going to see anymore of that in Q3 and Q4 like we did in the first couple of quarters? That one is – Don is a swim through the middle part of last year but let me remind you too what you’ll see next quarter is we have that large contract settlement that we called out of it of $0.31 of EPS so that was all revenue and operating income.
And that was split between the Small Business Services and the Financial Services segment.
So next quarter we will have that compare in those two businesses to the OS but we gave good visibility and clear number on that by segment last year.
Got it.
Great thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) And we have no further questions in queue at this time.
I would now like to hand the conference back over to Mr.
Lee Schram for any closing remarks.
Hi just want to thank everybody again for joining.
We have a summer – a softer summer participation list today here but we are going to get back to work and we look forward to providing a positive progress report on our next earnings call.
Thank you Lee.
This is reminder that a replay of this call will be available until August 11 by dialing 888-286-8010.
When instructed provide the access code 53073331.
The accompanying slides are archived in the news and Investor Relations section of Deluxe’s website at www.deluxe.com.
Again thank you for joining us and have a good afternoon.
Thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Deluxe Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Jeff and I'll be your coordinator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will facilitate a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Jeff Johnson Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
And you have the floor sir.
Thank you Jeff.
Welcome to Deluxe Corporation's 2011 third quarter earnings call.
I'm Jeff Johnson Deluxe's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me on the call today are Lee Schram Deluxe's Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson Deluxe's Chief Financial Officer.
Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts after the prepared comments.
At that time the operator will instruct you how to ask a question.
In accordance with Regulation FD this call is open to all interested parties.
A replay of the call will be available via telephone in Deluxe's website.
I will provide instructions for accessing the replay at the conclusion of our teleconference.
Before I begin let me make this brief cautionary statement.
Comments made today regarding financial estimates and projections and any other statements addressing Management's intentions and expectations regarding the Company's future performance are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the news release that we issued this morning and in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which is posted in the News and Investor Relations section of our website www.deluxe.com and was furnished to the SEC on the Form 8-K filed this morning.
In particular any non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
In the midst of a continued sluggish economy Deluxe delivered another solid quarter.
Revenue grew almost 4% excluding the one-time $25 million contract settlement in the prior year quarter.
Small Business Services’ revenue grew 10% excluding the portion of the contract settlement recorded in this segment in the prior year and grew over 6% when also excluding PSPrint in the current quarter.
This quarterly growth rate is the strongest we have reported since we acquired NEBS in 2004.
Checks and forms both performed well against our expectations and marketing and other services revenues grew 26% over the prior year.
The revenue shortfall against the high-end of our expectations was driven primarily by financial services customer acquisition and regulatory compliance services as financial institutions delayed decisions and roll outs as well as slower acceleration of SBS search engine marketing services.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations exceeded the high end of our outlook driven by favorable product mix and lower average shares outstanding as we opportunistically repurchase $6 million of shares to help offset dilution from employee plans.
Excluding the one-time $0.31 per share contract settlement in the prior year quarter adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations grew 15% over the prior year.
We continue to invest in brand awareness to help better position our marketing and other services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced our process improvement and cost reduction initiatives while driving strong operating cash flow as we continue to transform Deluxe.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thanks Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of $0.71 which included $0.07 per share from restructuring and transaction-related costs.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $0.78 was $0.01 favorable to the upper end of our previous outlook.
Favorable product mix and lower average shares outstanding drove better than expected EPS performance.
Restructuring and transaction-related costs were primarily driven by infrastructure consolidations employee severance charges in PSPrint acquisition.
EPS from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2010 was $0.99 and included a one-time contract settlement gain of $0.31.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $355 million and grew almost 3% on a sequential quarterly basis versus the prior year.
Consolidated revenue was up almost 4% excluding the one-time contract settlement gain of $25 million in the prior year.
Small Business Services revenue up $214 million grew 4% versus last year on a reported basis that grew 10% excluding the portion of the contract settlement recorded in this segment in the prior year.
We recently acquired PSPrint business at nearly $8 million of revenue in the quarter.
While we continue to operate in a weak economic environment we did also deliver growth in marketing and other services.
Our Safeguard distributor channel and Canada.
SBS revenue also benefited from previous price increases.
Financial Services revenue of $85 million was down 17% versus the third quarter of last year but down only 5% excluding the portion of the contract settlement recorded in this segment in the prior year.
The impact of price increases was more than offset by the contract settlements in the prior year quarter and fewer check orders.
Direct Checks revenue totaled $56 million which was down 5% on a year-over-year basis.
Gross margin for the quarter was 65.5% of revenue versus 67.0% last year.
The one-time contract settlement increased 2010’s margins by 2.4 percentage points.
Benefits from price increases improvements in manufacturing and productivity and delivery initiatives were partly offset by the increased delivery and material rates in 2011.
SG&amp;A expense increased $5 million in the quarter and was 45.8% of revenue compared to 42.9% of revenue in the same period last year.
Increased SG&amp;A associated with acquisitions brand awareness campaigns and investments in revenue-generating initiatives were partially offset by further cost reductions.
Excluding restructuring and transaction-related costs adjusted operating margin for this quarter was 19.9% and was above our expectations with favorability coming from improved product mix.
All three segments delivered strong operating margins compared to expectations.
In 2010 adjusted operating margin of 24.1% included a 5.4 percentage point benefit from the one time contract settlement.
Excluding restructuring and transaction related costs Small Business Services’ operating margin of 17.3% was down 4.6 percentage points over last year.
The contract settlement generated 4.9% margin last year which more that offset price increases and continued progress with cost production initiatives.
Financial Services operating margin of 19.2% was down 7.4 percentage points from 2010 due to the favorable contracts settlement in 2010 and lower volume as well as higher investment spending in 2011.
Operating margin in this segment did improve from both the first two quarters of 2011.
Direct Checks’ operating margin of 31% increased 3.4 percentage points from 2010 as we continue to realize planned synergies from integrating Custom Direct and that acquisition related to amortization begins to roll off.
Turing to the balance sheet and cash flow statement total debt at the end of the quarter was $776 million compared to $755 million at the end of 2010.
This increase was primarily driven by the 2011 acquisitions of Banker's Dashboard and  PSPrint for a combined $81 million and $24 million of share repurchases $6 million of which occurred in the third quarter to further offset dilution from employee plans.
Cash provided by operating activities during the first nine months of the year was $171 million slight increase from last year was due to benefits from our cost reduction initiatives price increases and lower income tax and severance payments which more than offset the one time contract settlement collected in 2010 and higher interest payments in 2011.
Capital expenditures for the first nine months were $28 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $57 million.
In early July we purchased PSPrint for approximately $45 million cash which was funded with a draw on our credit facility.
The acquisition is expected to generate revenue of approximately $15 million during the last half of 2011 and be EPS neutral in 2011 after absorbing transaction costs and acquisition related amortization expense.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we are tightening our consolidated revenue outlook to a range of $359 million to $369 million which even without the benefit of the PSPrint acquisition is another quarter of low single-digit growth.
We expect this growth despite the start of a new large financial institution win we’ve previously reported being delayed until early 2012 and foreign exchange rates moving against us.
In line with what we experienced in the third quarter we also expect a slower ramp in FS customer acquisition and regulatory compliant services and we are being a little more cautious about the upcoming holiday season.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $0.77 to $0.84.
On a full year basis this results in a consolidated revenue outlook range of $1.41 billion to $1.42 billion.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to range from $3.05 to $3.12.
There are several key factors that contribute to our total year outlook in comparison to 2010 including Small Business Services revenue including the PSPrint acquisition is expected to increase in the mid-to-upper single digits as volume declines in core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from price increases growth in our Safeguard distributor channel our e-commerce investments double-digit growth in our marketing other services offerings which includes revenue from the PSPrint acquisition.
We expect financial services revenues to decline in the low double digits or high single digits excluding the contracts settlement last year with check order declines of approximately 7% to 8% and lower revenue per order.
These decreases will be partially offset by increasing contributions from non-check revenue streams including those from Banker's Dashboard.
Deluxe check revenue is expected to increase in the mid-single digits driven by a full year impact of the Custom Direct acquisition partially offset by check declines.
Additional cost and expense reductions employee merit increases which we reinstated in the first quarter of this year after a two year period.
Increases in material and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including marketing and other services brand awareness direct response campaigns web-to-print and enhanced Internet capabilities an increase in interest expense of $0.05 per diluted share primarily due to the March refinancing of $195 million a 5% note due next year with $200 million of new 7% notes not due until 2019.
Effective tax rate of approximately 32% and higher average shares outstanding.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging between $224 million and $230 million in 2011 driven by stronger earnings and lower contract acquisition payments which we now expect to be approximately $15 million.
2011 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $35 million down 20% from 2010.
We continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $73 million including $20 million of acquisition-related amortization.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small-to-medium sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities we plan to pay down debt in order to further strengthen our balance sheet.
We believe our strong cash flow strengthened balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid quarter executing against our initiatives.
We are on track to deliver growth saving for 2011 of approximately $70 million the higher restructuring charges will result in net reductions for the year of approximately $60 million.
Our investments in 2011 not only enable us to deliver cost reductions in the current year it also add cost reductions for 2012.
Our focus in sales and marketing for the fourth quarter will continue to be on improving sales and marketing back-end operations through process centralization simplification platform and tool consolidation and leveraging e-commerce capabilities.
As expected we completed the closure of our Phoenix call center in the third quarter.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog in online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean product standardization spoilage reduction and direct and indirect spend reduction initiatives plus further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
We also expect to realize a full year's worth of savings from our proprietary flat check packaging system the last installation of which was completed in fourth quarter of 2010.
Finally for the shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce costs in all areas as more opportunities exist to centralize streamline standardize and improve efficiencies.
Now I'll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on what we are focused on overall and then highlight progress in each of our three segments.
I will also include throughout a perspective on what we hope to accomplish in the fourth quarter and finally provide some context looking forward to 2012 and beyond.
Our primary focus continues to be on revenue growth.
In the third quarter we had strong check performance with continued high demand for our new high security checks in SBS and better revenue rates in direct checks from improving our sales of additional accessories in Custom Direct.
The business products we continue to enhance our Internet and segmentation capabilities and we grew revenue in the Internet and distributor channels.
In marketing and other services we are off to a solid start with out PSPrint acquisition delivering nearly $8 million in revenue.
We also continue to invest organically in the third quarter in marketing and other services for our small business and financial institution customers including our recently introduced SwitchAgent service and regulatory compliance offers.
In the quarter we did a tremendous amount of work including gaining insight from a significant number of current and potential investors to thoroughly asses how we describe our products and services.
Investors are advocating that we provide better clarity around three primary offers checks forms and marketing and other services.
Based on our assessment and external input we concluded that certain marketing solutions such as promotional products and apparel are better classified as marketing solutions.
These products were previously classified as business products despite being growing part of our business.
The result is we now have a more comprehensive and complete view of all marketing and other services.
Marketing and other services revenue grew 26% in the third quarter.
We now expect to generate approximately $225 million in marketing and other services revenue in 2011 up from $186 million in 2010 and $159 million in 2009.
As achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 16% of revenue towards our goal of achieving 25% mix over the strategic period.
And up from the 12% to the 13% level over the last two years.
Going forward we expect to continue to asses potential small to medium-sized acquisitions that complement our large customer bases with focus on the marketing and other services space.
In addition to our strong print leadership expertise we also made progress in the third quarter In improving our talent and bench strength in marketing and other services spaces with the additions of new talent in Web services social media e-commerce search engine marketing regulatory compliance and web-to-print.
We also continue to invest more in brand awareness and positioning targeted at the marketing and other services spaces primarily through the network and National Public Radio and through entrepreneur.com Martha Stewart CNNMoney.com BestCompany.com and others.
Now shifting to our segments.
In Small Business Services as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remain sluggish.
We had strong performance however as revenue grew 6% excluding the contract settlement last year and the PSPrint acquisition in the current year the strongest rate we have reported since the clearing ups in 2004.
Checks and forms performed well against our expectations.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
We increased new customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage referral program and through our direct response campaigns.
Response rates increased from better balanced and rich content in online and print-based spend.
Average order value and conversion rates remain strong.
Our Safeguard distributor channel and Canada grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in web search engine marketing and payroll services.
In the quarter we added EarthLink as a significant partner in the web services space.
We now have 500 000 web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market optimism indices have declined six of the last seven months and remain in recessionary territory.
We are not seeing the surge that should lead to economic growth.
Small businesses are only slowly hiring.
And they remain cautious in making any investments.
Capital spending although improving remains low.
They continue to spend less scrutinize purchases more and experience tight cash flow.
Small businesses' outlook that business conditions will improve over the next six months will sharply in the third quarter.
In summary current optimism indices had been trending downward and are still below end of 2007 levels.
The good news is that increasing sales continues to be a small business owner’s number one pain point.
And we now offer many products and services to help them here.
That the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that helps small businesses get and keep customers.
Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for the balance of 2011 is on acquiring new customers increasing our share wallet through our enhanced Shop Deluxe e-commerce site growing distributor and channel partners and improving segmentation.
We will continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our in-bound out-bound and online customer touch points to maximize revenue scale capability.
In marketing and other services we expect to continue to gain new customers through our Telco focused wholesale Web services model add customers and services in our retail model add marketing services payroll services and logo customers and continue to expand our search engine marketing customer base.
We also expect to drive PsPrint revenue through additional customer acquisition programs and tactical improvement initiatives within the existing platform.
In Financial Services we saw the rate of decline of checks performed right in line with our forecasted decline range of around 7% to 8%.
With strong overall new acquisitions rates and our retention rates remain strong on the yield spending in the current quarter in excess of 19%.
We are extremely pleased to report the signing of a new contract with Citizens Financial Group and are working on check migration plans plus marketing and other services opportunities.
We now expect to begin check production for citizens financial group in late January 2012.
We also responded to another very large natural competitive RFP and expect the decision this fore year-end.
And there are still several more RFPs we anticipate receiving yet this year with decisions expected in 2012.
We also simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure including as planned closing our Phoenix call center in the third quarter.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing and other services revenue opportunities.
Although revenue grew over both last quarter and year in these non-check services which include customer acquisition regulatory compliance value-added services rewards checking and other profitability offers revenue came in below our expectations at the high end of our range primarily in the customer acquisition and regulatory compliance spaces.
In customer acquisition and specifically with our Cornerstone direct marketing analytics offer we are winning deals and adding new financial institutions but not at the pace we expected as decisions are talking longer or being delayed as financial institutions focus more on spending controls.
Positively in the customer acquisition space in mid-October we released a BAI our automated SwitchAgent service.
This proprietary new service allows consumers to easily in an automated way switch form one financial institution to another.
Even with the offer just released we already have 15 financial institutions signed up for the service and a significant number in the pipeline.
In regulatory compliance we have received nine bank association endorsements for our offer.
But as with customer acquisition we are seeing decisions take longer by financial institutions as they sort through Dodd-Frank and implications on their community bank compliance programs.
Positively we have 23 trial offers in the market and anticipate many of these will become paying customers in 2012.
The Banker’s Dashboard acquisition continues to perform well.
In September we had our highest number of new financial institution wins since the April acquisition.
As you can see although not as fast as we had hoped momentum continues to build in these non check revenue initiatives.
In Direct Checks revenue was in line with our expectations driven by accelerated reorder rates and strong Customs Direct accessories revenue.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other Check related products and services to our consumers.
The lion’s share of the Custom Direct integration is complete but we are still working on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up sell capabilities.
In addition cost reduction activities continue with savings occurring in material procurement delivery media and marketing expense leverage and other SG&amp;A.
We expect continued revenue enhancements and cost reductions in the fourth quarter.
In 2011 we expect revenue growth in the mid-single digits driven by Custom Direct and accelerated reorder curves partially offset by declines in consumer usage and a continued weak economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in the segment and drive our operating margins close to 30% including acquisition related amortization while generating strong cash flow.
As we exit the third quarter on the heels of another solid quarterly performance in a continued challenging economy we have made good progress again in transforming Deluxe.
We still have a lot of work and opportunities ahead of us.
We are continuing to prudently plan that the economic climate will not improve in the fourth quarter.
And we’re also now being a little more cautious about the upcoming holiday season.
Our primary focus right now is on revenue growth and we continue to invest in our future with better product and services offers and supporting brand awareness and direct response campaigns.
We expect to continue the trend of low single digit revenue growth excluding PSPrint in the fourth quarter.
We are gaining confidence that we can grow revenue in SBS even in a challenging economy.
If the economy improves in the fourth quarter we should have upside the Small Business Services revenue same time we will not take our eyes off the cost reductions and process improvements and we expect to continue to generate strong cash flows and a provide a very attractive dividend.
Looking ahead to 2012 our portfolio continues to become better positioned to deliver sustainable future revenue growth.
The expected on boarding of Citizens Financial Group starting in the first quarter extension of all but a few smaller large financial institution contracts through at least 2012 and approximately 15% fewer community bank contract dollars up for renewal in 2012 compared to 2011 should help us to stabilize core checks plus we have more competitive opportunities coming due through to 2012.
Business products we expect to expand existing organic initiatives including Shop Deluxe and Canada and to add Safeguard distributors dealers and national accounts.
We are building out a more formalized national accounts business which should allow us to reach small business owners in one-to-many model similar to how we reach some of our small businesses today in our wholesale Hostopia telecom model.
For example we have recently created or expanded relationships with Humana Costco Canada Benjamin Moore the National YMCA Howard Johnson's (inaudible) and others that we expect to ramp in 2012 plus add new relationships.
In marketing and other services we expect double-digit revenue growth with a full year of PSPrint and Banker's Dashboard and expected growth in web services search engine marketing logo payroll and other marketing services.
We also expect to create a single best-in-class integrated web-to- print platform that combines organic investments we have already made in a front-end customer experience with PSPrint’s strong back-end processes and scale web-to-print offers for a combined small business customers.
In a more normal economy we believe this could position us for solid mid single-digit revenue growth and strong low double-digit adjusted diluted earnings per share growth.
However given the continuing uncertain economic climate and lack of directional clarity it is more prudent for us right now to expect the increase in 2012 revenue to be in the very low single digits compared to 2011 which is expected to produce adjusted diluted earnings per share ranging from low to mid-single digit growth.
As part of these estimates we expect to continue to prudently invest more in brand awareness and direct response campaigns but at the same time continue our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
However we believe it is extremely important for us to closely monitor the marketplace over the next three months before providing a more specific outlook for 2012.
Finally I’d like to provide a perspective on the potential timeframe for achieving our targeted 25% of marketing and other services revenue to total revenue objective.
As I indicated earlier our current outlook for 2011 would get us to 16% of revenue.
We see this improving to a approximately 18% to 20% in 2012 in a continued sluggish economic climate.
It may be possible to reach 21% to 23% in 2013; and if we get any improvement in the economy plus unstated potential tuck-in acquisitions we could potentially achieve the 25% target in 2013.
So going forward into 2012 we therefore expect organic growth from marketing and other services revenue to equate to approximately a mid-teens growth rate.
As just specifically how we believe we will be able to improve the mix as we discussed in our last call for small businesses it starts on line with branding promoting hosting website mobile and recapture capabilities.
We can then help small businesses get found online and get social through risk management and social media capabilities.
Next we are able to work with them to acquire customers online with marketing and promotional services as well as through search engine optimization and email marketing.
After that we can help them manage their marketing spend online through search engine marketing.
Finally we can help them the efficient by pulling all of these services together and providing educational collateral content best practices and access to their peer networks.
All of this breadthens up with the best personalized customer experience to help them measure their results and manage their business.
On top of it is in Financial Services we believe our customer acquisition value added services regulatory compliance and profitability offers will help financial institutions get key customers manage themselves in a more heightened  regulatory environment and run their banks more profitably.
And now Jeff we’re going to open the line for questions.
All right thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Charlie Strauzer with CJS Securities.
Please proceed sir.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Charlie.
Hey a couple of questions.
One of the clarification Lee I think you said small business services growth including PSPrint would be double digits of that growth? That business growth including which time frame? For Q4 I think you said? Figured it through the year we put out $225 million now and that compare for everything compared to the $186 million now for the prior year and what I said Charlie is we expect double-digit growth next year and the way to think about it is think of organic growth in the mid-teens.
Got it.
Okay.
And more specifically I was talking about the Small Business Services segment you’d said… Yes we expect double-digit growth yes.
Got it.
Okay great.
And then the one large customer that hasn’t yet signed it’s been kind of pushed off a few quarters there can you give a little bit more colors as to what maybe causing delay and maybe kind of update us little bit more there? One of things you have to remember is we’ve seen this and went through this many times in the history of our company is that for whatever reason I found it interesting when I first joined you would think that combined between the locks in the financial institution it was a process of signing on and getting into and migrating to a new relationship would go quickly.
Sometimes it just doesn’t go as fast as all of us would like.
But what I can’t tell you is both sides are extremely enthusiastic about the opportunity and we think we can serve them and their clients not only through the check programs but also through other marketing and other services initiatives.
So I would just liken it to again sometimes it just takes longer to work through the process but we’re thrilled about it and thrilled about the opportunity to really work with this new financial institution.
Once that’s all wrapped up and kind of underway will you be able to announce who the customer is? Yeah Charlie we actually announced it we announced it today it’s Citizen Financial Group.
That’s the same –when we are talking about.
Okay got it.
That’s it.
I thought that was an additional customer I’m sorry.
No that’s the customer.
Got it.
Okay.
Great.
And then in the Direct Checks the margins have been treating up very nicely over the last few quarters what’s kind of driving that is that really just a flat packaging or is that just a combination of that and efficiencies or does Custom Direct bring anything to the table that may be help you get more efficient on your side or visa versa? Yeah the way to think about is we had lower margins when we first completed the acquisition and we expected the margins to improve with all the initiatives that were actually driving.
And the way I would describe it as think of this best-in-class direct-to-consumer experience.
There were wonderful things that we brought to the table that there were wonderful things that Custom Direct brought to the table.
We are continuing to get better and better and more and more efficient everywhere not only on the revenue generating side but also on the cost side also on the SG&amp;A side.
So the combination of all of those are helping us and then you also have to remember we’ve said it in previous (inaudible) call we’re also getting some of the acquisition and amortization behind us as well.
So it’s a lot of hardwork and a lot of initiatives across the board that’s really helping us here.
And do you think those kind of margin rates are kind of sustainable kind of going forward at least in the near-term 29% to 30% kind of range is that as we look into next year is that something that you think is kind of sustainable there?  The way I would look at is obviously I’ve been giving you specific guidance into next year but my comment was for the year this year we should expect the margins to approximate for the total year of 30% range.
So yeah I’m confident that if we can continue to do the hard work that we’re doing and keep the integration going that we should be able to stay in that range again it’s already been out being more specific with guidance for next year yet.
That’s perfect.
Thank you very much.
Just one kind of more broader picture question when you look at all the different pieces in marketing services that you have now from web hosting to social media etcetera and you talk about helping business kind of do all that and how it’s now at Deluxe.
If the sales side of it is that kind of where you wanted to be in terms of being able to kind of reach out to a small business say hey we’re Deluxe but did you know we can do all these things now or is it still kind of a work in progress? It’s becoming a clear and clear story for people.
We have wonderful customers now that start with us and do everything from a logo to getting their website to hosting it to then providing email marketing providing search optimization wrapping ourself around their social – what they’re doing in the social media space; all we have to do in search engine marketing and then managing I’m hoping for.
And so Charlie the way I would describe it is it’s a work in process too we have the suite of services that we think are important and we’ve partner in places where we go in.
And gain if those things that we think we need to add we will do some tuck-in work as we – acquisition work.
But we have a lot of those knowledge just continuing to get that story out clear and clear and show the wonderful customer base that that we can actually do this.
And I think that clearly the excitement we have is in the – the belief we have as we can continue to grow that that revenue base because we can get more and more customers that will buy more and more of the products and services that we have and we’ll offer them.
Great.
Thank you very much Lee.
Welcome Charlie.
Our next question comes from the line of John Kraft with D.
A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey John.
Congrats on the progress so far.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
I guess I just wanted to clarify first a couple things I’m sorry for maybe this bit of the repeat here but so the Citizens contract was the contract that’s delayed into Q1 and that’s the reason why the contract acquisition payments have been reduced for 2011.
Where does that leave us with the SunTrust migration? SunTrust migration that – it was ready to put it last year.
We bought their mine and are producing all of their checks effective really the mid point of last year.
Okay.
So I guess I am getting mixed up with some of these RFPs that are out there.
Is there any others that were part of that group that you’d been talking about for the last couple of quarters? Yes John here is the way to think about it.
But to answer your other question yes the contract acquisition payments we’ve brought down this year in part due to delay of the final implementation of Citizens.
Yes there are as I said it my comments there are other RFPs competitive RFPs.
We’ve responded to another one and we are expecting a decision in the fourth quarter and there are several others that we are expecting to get this year.
That well we expect will be decisions that will be made in the 2012 timeframe.
Only a helpful point of clarity for the whole audience out there is what we’ve talked about in terms of the directional perspective I’ve provided for 2012 Citizens again is in there I mentioned that nothing else is in there.
And Citizens was the one that you didn’t mention specifically by the name but discussed on the last call? Yes Okay.
And then as far that you’ve provided some high level growth guidance on SBS segment for 2012 did I miss it did you give some targets for the Financial Services Group? I’ve provided company overall guidance for next year.
I didn’t provide specific other than to say that marketing and other services overall for the company will grow double digits and the way to think about it is think organic growth in the mid-teens.
Gotcha.
Okay so the targets that you’ve provided were across the board.
Okay.
And then just lastly I did see your switch kit at BAI this year it looks great and I guess my question is how are you going to place that.
Is that per click or per switch? Yeah the way it works is it’s not the end consumer that pays for any of those the bank pays for it and think of it as there is a step up fee arrangement depending on the size of the financial institution and then there is a per switch charge that we charge the bank.
Gotcha.
They made it sound like once I talked to you that it takes an average of I think they said three phone calls and they do some of that legwork for the customer? What we are actually finding out right now in the 15 that we’re working through is that the process is actually working quite well and as the call that get initiated and the whole switch is automated and then there is generally a closure call with the consumer.
So we’re really excited about this and it’s something that we have obviously showcased very well and you had a chance to see that BAI is around.
Gotcha.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Jamie Clement with Sidoti.
Please proceed.
LLC.</strong>  Lee Terry Jeff good morning.
Hi Jamie.
Good morning Jamie.
Hi Jamie.
LLC.</strong> Lee I was wondering if you look back I don’t know four or five years or whatever it is the way that Deluxe generated a new small business customer is different than it is today.
And you have a lot more tools a lot more services with which to attract customers.
Have you all internally kind of attempted to quantify or kind of put into baskets where your new customer generation is really kind of coming from right now.
And can you give us any color on kind of how you’re thinking about that particularly as you all have spent more in terms of marketing and will fund business strategy over the last two years? Jamie let me put it into a channel focus for you here.
The way to think about as I mentioned in my prepared comments we continue to get new customers from the Deluxe Business Advantage program or we work with the financial institution.
LLC.</strong> Sure.
LLC.</strong>  that have been out there through the acquisition work that we’ve done.
We’re also getting them through the Safeguard distributor channel or getting them through the dealer channel.
And I mentioned today that’s really the start of it that we’re starting to get more customers through this one-to-many as we call relationships by going to a Benjamin Moore who has 5500 Benjamin Moore stores basically small businesses.
And if you think of it that way and we provide marketing products and services for them that’s another way of getting increased customers small business customers as well.
So our world right now is our reach to your point I think is what your promise was that our reach is getting better and better across the online the direct face-to-face through our distributor in that channel through our dealer channel through our new brands that we bought in.
So it’s a comp across the board Jamie of what you think about it.
LLC.</strong> Yeah and I guess what I’m kind of getting at least there historically has been a – even really at – if you go to kind of mid-2008 there has been a lot of focus on big bank small business lending.
And if that channel is not open for a while then Deluxe is going to have problems and it seems like your results over the last two years show otherwise.
Our reach is now stronger in terms of the access points we have and the channels we have.
LLC.</strong> And just one follow-up if I can.
How is PartnerUp fitting into some of this? That’s kind of a one area that I don’t quite I mean I see how it fits in but it’s not clear to me if that’s something that’s ancillary to some of the other kind of more direct revenue generating services can you just kind of give us a little color on that? Sure.
I think it’s interesting.
I would say it is ancillary those things that we are now doing with small businesses in the social area to help them on how to use Facebook how to use Twitter how to use LinkedIn.
And then how they can communicate with their peer-to-peer network.
And so that’s when PartnerUp absolutely is and again I would call it an ancillary tool as you said for the small business owner.
LLC.</strong> Yeah.
The other thing that’s interesting though is we actually are using it for our regulatory compliance offer as well.
So we have an automated online compliance offer and if a financial institution wants to talk to another financial institution about something in the regulatory space that they’re all dealing with not a bank trade secret so to speak but something they’re all dealing with.
We are using the PartnerUp network capability there as well.
So we’ve extended our reach with that out of just a small world and now into the financial institution world.
LLC.</strong> And I just wanted to clarify I was not asking that question out of any kind of criticism it’s just that the world of social networking seems to be hopping on a week-to-week basis and that’s really why was asking the question.
All right.
And I think I hopefully answered it well.
LLC.</strong> Absolutely absolutely.
Okay.
LLC.</strong> Thanks very for your time.
Thank you Jamie.
(Operator Instructions) Up next we have Ben Glaze with Stone Tower Capital.
Please proceed.
Hi I have a quick question I guess your primary competitor in your recent proxy filing kind of changed their view on forecast of the total check volumes in the industry and become more negative.
I think that’s kind of low double digits and it sounds like you guys disagree with that I was just curious if that is the case you’re disagreeing if you want to attribute maybe that view to anything secularly changing and how you view kind of the impacts of Durbin amendment and maybe banks reducing incentives they have rewards checking in general and things like that.
Ben what I said in my prepared comments is we in the third quarter once again and we probably have been at this clearly four or five quarters now well we’ve been in that 7% to 8% range.
And that’s what we’re seeing and that’s what we’ve been consistently public about.
You’ll have to talk to the other player to get more clarity.
Okay.
And on some of these kind of competitive bids and renewals or expansions of your existing customers that you’ve experienced because I’m just curious how has all the pricing been looking forward essentially on kind of the more profitable mid-size and small-size institutions?  Here is the way that I would that I think you should look at any large competitive opportunity.
The process where that we’ve take is Deluxe has and now it’s been public about this as well as is Duplex is taking a technology wrapped around the call center approach to what we do best digital presence that we can get.
Automated flat processing and packaging technology we can get.
Best automated online tools to help our financial institutions run their check program all wrapped around a best class experience with our great call center agents.
So that’s how we are approaching it I will tell you sure price is always they’re going to be out there and you’re going to be competitive but it’s a lot more than price it’s all of the things that we think we can differentiate and bring to the table and that’s how we are trying compete in the market place.
Okay thanks.
And on the kind of existing smaller institutions is that pretty competitive or is the pricing trying to change? Again it’s always been competitive Ben.
Again I would continue to believe it will always be competitive as we move forward as well.
Okay.
And just kind of a house keeping question for modeling purposes.
I guess just given the capital structure it seems like you have a fair amount of refinancing to deal over the next couple of years I’d say maybe $500 million between 2012 and 2015 just curious what your view is on kind of addressing that and timing and whether you are comparable waiting to address some of those 14 and 15 maturities for a couple of more years? Yeah Ben this is Jeff.
We are feeling pretty comfortable with our capital structure right now we took care of the 24 new term maturities we kick off a lot of cash on an annual basis.
So I think right now we’re feeling pretty comfortable coming into the 14<sup>th</sup> and the 15<sup>th</sup>.
Okay.
And sorry one final just have a quick question.
I want to understand that change you guys made at the way you’re disposing marketing and other services what exactly was the revenue that you add to the prior period and then I think you said $2.25 is the expectation for 2011 is that right? Yeah the way I would think about is again all we did is we went back and just did a thorough assessment.
And when we produced our K for the year you will be able to get up a further support for.
But basically what we’ve now done is that $0.59 has become $1.86 and become now for this year $2.20 $2.25.
So ‘09 ‘10 and ’11.
That’s the way to think about it.
Okay.
So that implies actually that your expected growth rate in that segment has declined if you didn’t make that change or not because I think you said $1.75 before?  Well you guys consider all first of all your basis figure and all the product the marketing and other services that are now in there and they’re moving some of them move at different growth rates than others but it’s still again what I can give you in terms of support for your modeling and everybody is expected organic mid-teens growth is the way you should think about it.
All right.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude the question-and-answer portion of our call.
I’d now like to turn the event back over to Mr.
Lee Schram for closing remarks.
Again everybody I just like to thank you for your participation and your questions and your continued support and interest in Deluxe.
And as I normally say we’re going to get back to work now and we look forward to providing another positive progress report on our next call.
And I’ll turn it over to Jeff for some closing housekeeping comments.
All right thank you Lee.
This is a reminder that a replay of this call will be available until November 10 by dialing 888-286-8010.
When instructed provide the access code 61870952.
The accompanying slides are archived in the news and Investor Relations section of Deluxe’s website at www.deluxe.com.
Again thank you for joining us have a good afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation you may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the fourth quarter Deluxe Corporation earnings conference call.
My name is [Jenna] and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of today’s conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference Mr.
Jeff Johnson Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you [Jenna].
Welcome to Deluxe Corporation’s 2011 fourth quarter earnings call.
I’m Jeff Johnson Deluxe’s Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Joining me on the call today are Lee Schram Deluxe’s Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson Deluxe’s Chief Financial Officer.
Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts after the prepared comments.
At that time the operator will instruct you how to ask a question.
In accordance with Regulation FD this call is open to all interested parties.
A replay of the call will be available via telephone in Deluxe's website.
I will provide instructions for accessing the replay at the conclusion of our teleconference.
Before I begin let me make this brief cautionary statement.
Comments made today regarding financial estimates and projections and any other statements addressing Management's intentions and expectations regarding the Company's future performance are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the news release that we issued this morning and in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which is posted in the News and Investor Relations section of our website www.deluxe.com and was furnished to the SEC on the Form 8-K filed this morning.
In particular any non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
Deluxe delivered another very strong quarter.
We reported revenue and adjusted earnings per share at the high end of our expected ranges.
Revenue grew 4% over the prior year quarter driven by Small Business Services revenue growth of 12% of which 4% came from the PsPrint acquisition.
This quarterly growth rate is the strongest we have reported since we acquired NEBS in 2004.
Checks and forms both performed well against our expectations and marketing and other services revenues grew 25% over the prior year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations grew 6% over the prior year in spite of a higher than expected tax rate.
We continue to invest in brand awareness to help better position our marketing and other services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and delivered on our $60 million cost reduction commitment while generating a better than expected $235 million in operating cash flow for the year.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of $0.78 which included restructuring and impairment costs of $0.05 per share.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $0.83 was at the upper end of our previous outlook and 6% higher than the $0.78 reported in the fourth quarter of 2010.
EPS was negatively impacted in the quarter by $0.04 per share due to a higher than expected effective tax rate which was driven primarily by discrete tax adjustments for a valuation allowance and a state tax settlement plus an unfavorable shift in income between tax jurisdictions.
The restructuring charges are primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $366 million and grew 4% over last year and 3% sequentially from last quarter.
All three of our business segments performed well.
Small Business Services revenue of $229 million grew 12% versus last year on a reported basis including PsPrint which added nearly $8 million of revenue in the quarter.
While we continue to operate in a weak economic environment we delivered growth in marketing and other services our safeguard distributor and dealer channels and in checks and forms.
SBS revenue also benefited from previous price increases.
Financial Services revenue of $83 million was down 6% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
The impact of lower check orders was only partially offset by higher non-check services revenue.
Direct checks revenue totaled $55 million which was down 7% on a year-over-year basis.
Gross margin for the quarter was 64.5% of revenue up 0.5 percentage points from 2010.
Benefits from price increases improvements in manufacturing productivity and delivery initiatives were partially offset by increased delivery and material rates in 2011.
SG&amp;A expense increased $1.5 million in the quarter and was 43.5% of revenue compared to 44.9% of revenue in the same period last year.
Increased SG&amp;A associated with acquisitions brand awareness campaigns and investments in revenue generating initiatives were partially offset by further cost reductions and lower performance based compensation.
Excluding restructuring and impairment cost adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 21.4% up from the 19.5% generated in 2010 and was above our expectations.
Compared to last year favorability came from an improved gross margin and lower SG&amp;A expense.
All three segments delivered strong operating margins compared to expectations.
Excluding restructuring and impairment costs Small Business Services operating margin of 18.9% was up 1.1 percentage points over last year due to previous price increases and continued progress with cost reduction initiatives.
Financial Services operating margin of 21.2% was up 2.8 points from 2010 due to better products and services mix and cost reductions.
Direct Checks operating margin of 31.9% increased 4.6 points from 2010 as we continue to realize planned synergies from integrating Custom Direct and lower acquisition related amortization.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement total debt at the end of the year was $742 million down from $755 million at the end of 2010.
We ended the year with nothing drawn on our credit facility despite $86 million of cash acquisitions during the year.
Cash provided by operating activities for the year was $235 million a $23 million increase from 2010.
$25 million contract settlement collected in the third quarter of 2010 was more than offset by benefits from our costs savings initiatives and price increases as well as lower contract acquisition income tax and severance payments in 2011.
Capital expenditures for the year were $36 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $73 million.
Looking ahead to 2012 we expect consolidated revenue on a full-year basis to range from $1.42 billion to $1.46 billion.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $3.10 to $3.30.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full year outlook including Small Business Services revenue is expected to increase in the mid-to-high single digit range as declines in core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments price increases our distributor and dealer channels and double-digit growth in marketing and other services offerings.
We expect financial services revenue to decline in the low to mid single digits range driven by recurring check order declines of approximately 7% to 8% which we expect will be partially offset by higher revenue per order the Citizens Financial Group migration starting next week and continued growth from non-check revenue streams.
Direct Checks revenue declined in the mid-to-high single digits driven by check volume reductions in the sluggish economy additional cost and expense reductions increases in material and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness direct response campaigns marketing and other services offers and enhanced internet capabilities and an effective tax rate of approximately 33% for the year.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging from $225 million to $245 million in 2012 reflecting stronger earnings in the mid-to-upper end of our outlook offset by higher tax payments.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $15 million.
2012 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $35 million or roughly the same as 2010.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $62 million including $15 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the first quarter of 2012 we expect revenue to range from $358 million to $366 million.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $0.76 to $0.81.
In comparison to 2011 the listed factors affecting our full-year outlook are similar to those affecting the first quarter but as a reminder historically Direct Checks has their strongest revenue quarter of the year in the first quarter and the first quarter benefit from one extra business day compared to last year and the second quarter this year.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small-to-medium sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level and repurchase shares to offset dilution.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities we plan to pay down debt in order to further strengthen our balance sheet because we exited 2011 with nothing drawn on our credit facility.
It is possible we may accumulate larger investments on our balance sheet in 2012 in anticipation of paying off the $85 million of notes maturing in December.
We believe our strong cash flow strengthened balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid year and we delivered on our commitment to reduce our cost and expenses in 2011 by approximately $60 million bringing our total reduction since mid-2006 to $385 million.
Strong performance in the fourth quarter help to offset the impact of restructuring charges.
Looking ahead to 2012 we will continue our focus on the revenue growth phase of our transformation but will not lessen our focus on cost reductions.
We expect to drive an incremental $50 million of cost reductions net of investments in 2012.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2012 will continue to be on improving sales and marketing back-end operations through process centralization simplification platform and tool consolidation and leveraging e-commerce capabilities.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalogue in online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean product standardization spoilage reduction and direct and indirect spend reduction initiatives plus further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for the shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce costs in IT and other areas as more opportunities exist to improve efficiencies.
Now I'll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I'll continue my comments with an update on what we accomplished in 2011 overall and then where we are headed in 2012.
I will then highlight progress at each of our three segments including a perspective on what we plan to accomplish in 2012.
Deluxe grew revenue in 2011 for the second consecutive year for the first time since the NEBS acquisition.
We stabilized our core check and product businesses and invested in future revenue growth areas as we continued our transformation.
These investments included organic initiatives like e-commerce Web services web-to-print customer acquisition regulatory and fraud and security offerings.
We acquired Banker’s Dashboard and PsPrint to expand opportunities in higher growth marketing and other services.
We also continue to reposition our brand through investments in advertising including radio online print television and our Project REV small business marketing lab.
In addition to our strong print leadership we invested in our employment brand and created stronger technology and digital expertise by adding sales marketing and technology leaders in marketing and other services.
Our efforts earned us a jobs to web Best Social Media Innovation Award a Talent Board Candidate Experience Award and a LinkedIn Recruiting Innovation Award.
We also moved to the number one ranking on the EPA list of the largest Green Power Purchasers in the printing industry.
In shared services infrastructure we reduce cost and improve the effectiveness of information technology finance human resources real estate and legal functions.
Our intense focus on cost reductions has now delivered savings of $385 million since mid 2006.
We excited the year with more robust products and services solidified processes a better infrastructure and improved financial results.
Our operating cash flow grew for the third straight year allowing us to maintain our dividend and pay down debt while making two cash acquisitions.
In addition we strengthen our capital structure in March with the debt refinancing and an attractive rate.
We recognized that there were still a tremendous amount of work to do but we made great strides in 2011.
As we enter 2012 our primary focus continues to be profitable revenue growth.
We have created more differentiated technology led check offers through investments and automated flat packaging digital printing and online portals and dashboards.
We also have significant new solutions growth opportunities and marketing and other services including for small businesses logo design Web services social media web-to-print search engine marketing payroll and fraud and security services.
And for financial institutions customer acquisition regulatory compliance and profitability offers.
We will continue to assess potential small to medium size acquisitions that complement our large customer basis with the focus on marketing and other services.
We have strengthen our channels in small business to include online retail wholesale distributors dealers and major [accounts].
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses get and keep customers and helping small to mid-sized financial institutions with customer acquisition regulatory compliance and profitability offers.
These new solutions and channels are driving new differentiated opportunities for us to execute on our strategy and will further enable us to deliver the best personalized customer experience while offering one of the broadest products and services portfolios in each market we serve.
On our third quarter call we provided an initial perspective on 2012 including a very low single digit expected increase in revenue and an EPS range of low to mid single digit growth.
Today in spite of a strong finish to 2011 we released ranges in line with these initial perspectives with the revenue outlook range from just over flat to up 3% compared with 2011 and a diluted earnings per share range of flat to up 6%.
More specifically the upper end of our outlook assumes the current economic trends remained sluggish to slightly improving in the second half of the year that we implement Citizens Financial Group starting next week and that we generate double digit revenue increases in marketing and other services to approximately $275 million up from the $222 million in 2011 plus get some modest growth from our other key initiatives.
On the lower end we have assumed that not all of our new revenue initiatives and marketing and other services increased as much as expected and the economy remains sluggish throughout the year.
We believe this is a balance and therefore prudent way to plan.
We also expect to prudently invest and increase spending from our 2011 levels in both brand awareness and direct response campaigns.
We expect marketing and other services revenues to approximately $265 million to $275 million in 2012 up from the $222 million in 2011 with organic growth in the mid-teens.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 19% of revenue towards our goal of achieving a 25% mix over the strategic period and up from 16% in 2011 and 12% to 13% the previous two years.
Now shifting to our segments.
In Small Business Services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remain sluggish.
We had strong performance however as revenue grew 12% 4% of which came from the PsPrint acquisition and represented the strongest rate we have reported since acquiring NABs in 2004.
Checks and forms performed well against our expectations with seasonal holiday cards in line in all channels except our dealer channel where they were below expectations.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
We increased new customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage referral program and through our direct response campaigns.
Response rates increased from better balanced and enrich content in online and print-based spend.
Average order value and conversion rates remain strong.
Our Safeguard distributor and dealer channels and Canada grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in Web search engine marketing and payroll services.
In the quarter we won contracts with a very large US Telco as well as a large Central America Telco both of which we expect will migrate their small business customer Web services in the latter half of 2012.
We ended the year with over 500 000 web-hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices have improved the last four months which is encouraging but they still remain in recessionary territory.
Small business are starting – are slowly starting to higher and planning for capital investments over the next three to six months rose to the highest level in over three years.
However they continue to spend cautiously scrutinize purchases and experience tight cash flow.
Small businesses expectations for real sale gains turn positive and the outlook for business conditions became less negative.
In summary current optimism indices have been trending upward but improvements are still small and need to continue and be more pronounced.
The good news is that increasing sales continues to be a small business owners number one pain point and our portfolio was significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for 2012 in core small business checks and forms is on acquiring new customers increasing our share of wallet through our enhanced shop Deluxe e-commerce site growing distributor and channel partners and improving segmentation.
We will continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our inbound outbound and online customer touch points to maximize scale revenue scale capability.
In marketing and other services we expect to continue to gain new customers through our Telco focused wholesale Web services model add customers and services in our retail model add marketing services payroll services and logo customers and continue to expand our search engine marketing customer base.
For web-to-print we expect to create a single best-in-class integrated platform that combines organic investments we have already made in a front-end customer experience with PsPrint’s strong backend processes and scale web-to-print offers for our combined small business customers.
In Financial Services we saw the rate of decline of checks perform closer to the lower end of our forecasted decline range of around 7% to 8%.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remained strong on deals pending in the current quarter of approximately 90%.
We now expect a decision later this quarter to the very large national competitive RFP we initially responded to in the third quarter of 2011.
There are two more RFPs we responded to.
One late in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the other early in the first quarter of 2012 that we expect decisions in 2012.
None of these three RFPs is included in our outlook in 2012.
We also simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
Looking ahead to 2012 we expect check units to remain within a decline range of around 7% to 8% retention rates in excess of 90% on deals pending this year or Citizens Financial Group production to began next week and we have approximately 20% fewer community bank contracts up for renewal in 2012 compared to 2011.
We also implemented a price increase at the start of this year.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing and other services revenue opportunities.
Revenue grew over last year in these non-check services which include customer acquisition regulatory compliance value-added services rewards checking and other profitability offers.
In customer acquisition and specifically our Cornerstone direct marketing analytics offer we saw a very strong ramp to close 2011 adding new financial institutions that will rollout in 2012.
We also saw a continued ramp both in adding financial institutions and the number of switches completed for our new switch agent service.
Again this proprietary new service allows consumers to easily in an automated way switch from one financial institution to another.
We already have several commitments from large financial institutions to pilots SwitchAgent in 2012.
In regulatory compliance we now have nine paying customers and also nine bank association endorsements for our offer.
But we continue to see decisions take longer by financial institutions as they sort through Dodd-Frank and implications on their community bank compliance programs.
The Banker’s Dashboard acquisition continue to perform well in the fourth quarter and we expect strong revenue growth in 2012.
As you can see although not as fast as we had hoped in some areas momentum continues to build and we expect strong double digit growth in these marketing and other services in 2012.
In Direct Checks revenue was in line with our expectations driven by accelerated reorder rates and strong Custom Direct accessories revenue.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other Check related products and services to our consumers.
Although we have made a lot of progress with the Custom Direct integration we still are working on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up sell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
For 2012 we expect revenue to decline in the mid to high single digits driven by declines in consumer usage and a continued weak economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in the segment and drive our operating margins in the 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit 2011 on the heels of a very strong quarterly performance in a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe.
But we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2012.
We have built the foundation to be an indispensable partner in helping small businesses get and keep customers by offering everything from printed products to affordable logo design web services and search engine marketing.
We help small business compete against big business and win.
In financial services we are growing beyond checks into a broad set of solutions that help banks acquire customers improve profitability and manage regulatory compliance.
Our technologies in channels are stronger.
Our e-commerce offers more mature.
Our infrastructure better and our management talent is deeper and align to grow revenue.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily Check printer.
Thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
We believe we are well positioned entering 2012 for our third consecutive year of revenue growth.
Despite the economic challenges and headwinds our financial discipline as enable us to invest in people technology products services and our brand in order to position ourselves for sustainable revenue growth while continuing to improve profitability and operating cash flow we know it is critical for us to be able to grow revenue again in 2012 and improve the mix of our marketing and other services revenue and we are well positioned to make this happen.
Before I open the call for questions I would like to take this opportunity to thank all Deluxe employees for their hard work dedication and solid performance in 2011.
Thank you Deluxers.
Let’s get off to a great start in 2012 and remember to put your part into it.
Now [Jenna] will open the line up for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Charlie Strauzer with CJS Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Hi Charlie.
First of all thank you for that extensive run through (inaudible) and I appreciate the added clarity there.
Lee if you can talk a little bit more and give a little bit more color into what would happen with the Small Business Services side the marketing services side I should say if the economy were to continue to uptick and kind of above what your expectations with that.
With that fast track do you think those growth expectations from the mid-teens to maybe it’s more like we saw this year? Yes.
The way I would look at it is if we get a more cooperative economy I think we believe we can drive a larger growth rate Charlie in marketing and other services.
But I think for now we’ve done a good job at the way we thought about that where the economy is and where the range is? And again I think we are very comfortable with our organic growth of being in the mid-teens.
Got it.
And then talking a little bit more about your own contracts that are kind of potentially up for re-bid over the next call in 24 month or so can you give us a little bit more insight there – you’ve done a good job in kind of walking up or extending contracts.
Any big ones that our RFPs out there right now for you on the re-bid side? No.
In fact there is just a handful that are [coming to] this year and they are very small in terms of the size of the annual revenues and they are what you would consider to be large nationals.
But they’re not and they’re not the biggest ones Charlie.
So we do not have a lot that are doing.
As I said in my prepared comments we also have 20% fewer community bank contracts that are up for renewal this year than 2011.
So the way to think about it and the way Terry and I are thinking about it is this gives us more stability and that checking being predictive around where a check declines are going to be and then how we level (inaudible) our factories and how we run our business.
So we are very encouraged and honestly it’s all due to the Financial Services sales teams and really working the contracts hard and get out in front of these.
And I just – I can’t say in a positive about the performance and what they are doing.
That’s encouraging.
Thank you very much.
<br>Welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Clement with Sidoti.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> Yeah good morning gentlemen.
Hi Jamie.
Hi Jamie.
LLC</strong> Terry if I could I just was – wanted to just one housekeeping item.
The charts towards the bottom of your press release which shows the segment breakdown of our restructuring and impairment charges? Yeah.
LLC</strong> That that number and I apologize actually lost my – that number actually excuse me differs from the number it’s in the text by a little bit.
And so I think we see $4.3 million in the chart and then I think you highlight $3.1 million? Yeah.
LLC</strong> Or earlier so I assume the difference is the $1.2 million impairment charge? Yeah that is the difference entirely.
LLC</strong> And Terry where what segment is that in? The impairment charge actually will come through the Small Business Services segment.
LLC</strong> Small Business Services.
Okay just wanted further up and Lee more sort of more important issues that I’ve asked that if this question or similar is being the question before.
As you all have continued to build the marketing services business the just the non-print businesses in general.
Can you give us an update on what you learned about building the Deluxe brand among the Small Business customers and particularly looking out to 2012 where your marketing dollars that are going to go in terms of advertising in brand building what’s worth and maybe what hasn’t worth? Yeah I think what we are finding is that it starts with a general brand awareness that Deluxe can do more than just be a great check company and where we put what we call chart Jamie put general dollars into that and we believe its working.
We’ve also put money into most of the money other than that into demand generation and direct marketing capability and the way to think about or again is where we believe that a combination of radio which has been the primary way we’ve spent the money but continued – will continue to look at the television market to see if that make sense because we’ve gotten some benefit from that.
We will look at the partnerships that we have and the relationships we have.
I’ll use the example in an entrepreneur.com has been a wonderful partner for us.
And we’ll continue to do the print things that we do and we think that we do well.
So we are constantly looking at this Jamie and trying to figure out all the time how do we get better and how do we make sure we understand the return we get on the investments that we’re making there.
And we’ll continue to do that in 2012 and we – as I said in the prepared comments we’re going to put more money into that in 2012 than we did in ’11 but we’re also keep looking for what we believe is the right returns on investment and that’s how we are approaching it.
LLC</strong> Okay and just if I could ask one follow-up Lee.
As if you talk about returns on investment it’s you not getting the point where the next maturity likely to be taking care of in cash.
If you think about the balance sheet and you think about acquisition opportunities and what you want your balance sheet to look like have you – do you think there is any benefit to delevering the balance sheet in a more meaningful way over the next couple of years to really have a balance sheet that looks more like a services company than print manufacture.
I mean [does] that answer it all into the thinking? I think our capital structure really today really isn’t driving what we are trying to do with transformation and what we are trying to do with strategy.
But we also recognize to that from many parts of our business we’re still generating a lot of cash flow.
LLC</strong> Absolutely.
Cash flow to the levels that are probably in excess of our needs.
LLC</strong> Exactly.
And with the way we are looking out we do anticipate that we will continue overtime to reduce that debt level some just like we have been over the past four or five years as well.
So I would expect that pattern and that trend to continue.
But again I just want to make sure that people understand that our capital structure is in no way limiting or driving to direction we go with the transformation.
LLC </strong> And Terry just to sort of clarify my question I was really asking that question more from the fact that you are on a position of strength now.
Yeah.
LLC</strong> With respect to where you are and you actually have probably more flexibility than you certainly had three years ago.
Yeah we do.
Now going forward is when we say we want to pay down debt it’s not quite as easy as it was.
LLC</strong> Yeah absolutely.
…perhaps with the credit facility because our public know us we don’t trade quite as heavily as we might like… LLC</strong> Right.
…in order to be able to pay down the days we want to pay down.
LLC</strong> Understood.
Thanks as always for your time.
All right.
Thank you Jamie.
Your next question comes from the line of John Kraft D.
A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys hope I can – hope you can hear me well I’m on a cell phone here.
I just had a couple of follow-ups.
The first regarding something I think Lee you just said and I just want to make sure I heard it (inaudible) obviously you’ve ramped up your marketing spending.
Did you say you were going to ramp it further? Yes we plan to spend more and what I would call on brand and demand creation and the direct marketing campaign initiatives in 2012 than we did in 2011.
Great.
Certainly it seems like it’s working for you.
Yeah.
And then on the large Telco wins.
Can you talk a little bit more about what the Telcos are doing and what they had been doing before kind of their motivations for switching over to you? Yes.
We are really excited about these and at some point we hope to be able to release the specific names but think of it as they’ve used others to start their Small Business web hosting and Web services and they’ve decided to come to Deluxe both what we’re excited about both from a migration of the base as well as what really got them excited is we’re good at doing this and also the opportunity to bring more of the services that we have in our portfolio than other providers that they’ve used in the past.
So I think of it as the strength John of the migration capability of the great development and engineering team that we’ve got as well as the products and services that we can wrap around that and are richer in our portfolio and that’s really the reasons why they made the move.
So we expect that these migrations as you know we’ve done some on the past they take time but we expect these to come on board in the latter half of the year.
So they were competitive takeaways.
Yes.
Nice.
That’s all I’ve got.
Thanks Lee.
You’re welcome John.
Your next question comes from the line of David Leibowitz with Horizon Kinetics.
Please go ahead.
Good noon.
A few quick questions.
One what is the status of your underfunded pension plan at the end of the year versus a year-ago? We are fully funded on the – it’s actually a post employment benefits plan.
We are fully funded for the portion that those assets can be used for.
There is a small pool of benefits out there that the asset pool did not relate to but we are – even as you look at it overall we’re nearly fully funded.
And what is the size of the stock repurchase program still left to be utilized? I believe we have roughly about half a million or 5 million shares I think still outstanding.
And do you have any intention this year of making significant purchases or is this more stock price related or acquisition related? No the share repurchases that we have been doing for the past couple of years have really been focused on offsetting dilution from the employee plan activity.
We actually have limitations in a couple of our note agreements that limit some of the share repurchase capabilities for the company.
So I would not that we would be looking to step that up beyond just the need to offset that dilution.
And lastly do you have a target for free cash flow this year versus 2011? We do – I mean we actually don’t issue specific guidance on free cash flow but we do give you the components.
We have indicted operating cash flow of 225 to 245 and then CapEx of about $35 million.
So – Now you seem to leave a lot of room to possibly increase the dividend rather than just [an answer] will be maintained is there any reason why the board has chosen not to increase the dividend? Our top priority right now from a free cash flow usage today is really to make sure that we have made the right organic investments and the right small to medium size tuck-in acquisitions to really keep this transformation moving forward and to make sure that we get it to a level where it’s really sustaining – a changed revenue profile for this company.
So that really continues to be our top priority and I believe I can speak to the Board in saying that until we have advanced that transformation further along we don’t anticipate that redeploying more capital towards dividends.
And this time is the right move for us.
And first David the think about the dividend yield that we are giving today we think is a very competitive market rate as well.
So that’s how we look at where we are with the dividend.
Just one observation on your last comment the fact that your dividend yield is a function of stock price as much as what you were paying on dividend so it could be argued that perhaps being a little more liberal with the shareholders would give you a higher stock price which would then reduce the yield on the stock.
But again that’s just an observation based on what you said and let me thank you for the time.
Welcome David.
Your next question comes from the line of [John Robert with Provident].
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Thank you Joe.
Thanks Joe.
Just a clarification on 2012 it looks like implied adjusted EBITDA will be about flat year-over-year.
I’m just wondering why that is given the revenue growth and given the $50 million of net cost savings.
As we have done in the past I mean our cost savings on a net basis we don’t just let those drop down to the bottom line dollar for dollar.
We do use some of that to provide investments back into the business to help the transformation.
We will also – we also have little bit less D&amp;A coming in next year as part of that as well and I think those are kind of the top things that come to mind quickly.
And could you share with us the revenue contribution from the acquisitions in Q4 and 2012 guidance? Yeah we did indicate that the largest of the acquisitions that are coming through this quarter that weren’t there a year ago was the PsPrint acquisition and that was just about $8 million for the quarter.
And for 2012?  For 2012 we don’t have any guidance built in for future possible acquisitions.
Okay.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
You have a follow-up question it’s from the line of John Kraft D.
A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead.
Hey just one additional question that was on the price increase in Small Business Services.
Can you give us some details I guess specifically how much that contributed to the growth and as well as specifically where those price increases were the most prominent? John we won’t give you the real specifics competitively.
But to think about what we continue to do is we look at where our products and services are priced and versus what’s going on in the marketplace and we take advantage where we can to make sure that we continue to be what we would call market competitive.
So that’s the way to think about it and by the way it works no different in Financial Services as well.
And as well as I guess then maybe a follow-up on that.
Would you anticipate this is kind of a one-time reset of your pricing or would you potentially have kind of something planned going forward with that as well? No we’re always looking at this John.
We’ve continuously done this for the last several years.
We’ve gotten better and better understanding where the competitors are where we can raise price what we can raise price for.
How we do it and its not a one-size fits all formula where we just slap something out there.
It’s very scientific with the process we have to go through and that’s probably the best I can do in giving you a framework for it.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks guys.
You’re welcome John.
That concludes the Q&amp;A session.
I’d like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Lee Scharm for closing.
Again I just like to thank everybody for your participation and questions.
We actually got more questions today which was terrific.
And we’re going to go back to work and we’ll get back to you and hopefully be able to provide a positive progress reports on our next earnings call.
I’m going to turn it back for Jeff for some housekeeping close.
Thank you Lee.
This is a reminder that a replay of this call will be available until February 9 by dialing 888-286-8010.
When instructed provide the access code 98465171.
The accompanying slides are archived in the News and Investor Relations section of Deluxe’s website at <a href="http://www.deluxe.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.deluxe.com</u></a>.
Again thank you for joining us and have a good afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the first quarter 2012 Deluxe Corporation earnings conference call.
My name is Stacey and I’ll be your conference moderator for today.
(Operator Instructions).
I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr.
Jeff Johnson Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Stacey.
Welcome to Deluxe Corporation’s 2012 first quarter earnings call.
I am Jeff Johnson Deluxe’s Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Joining me on the call today are Lee Schram Deluxe’s Chief Executive Officer and Terry Peterson Deluxe’s Chief Financial Officer.
Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts after the prepared comments.
At that time the operator will instruct you how to ask a question.
In accordance with regulation FD this call is open to all interested parties.
A replay of the call will be available by a telephone and Deluxe’s website.
I will provide instructions for accessing the replay at the conclusion of our teleconference.
Before I begin let me make this brief cautionary statement.
Comments made today regarding financial estimates and projections and any other statements addressing management intentions and expectations regarding the company’s future performance are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the news release that we issued this morning and in the company’s form10-K for the year ended December 31st 2011.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today’s press release which is posted in the news and investor relations section of our website at www.deluxe.com and was furnished to the FCC on the form 8-K filed this morning.
In particular any non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
To use a baseball analogy which is timely as the season is just underway we hit a home run in the quarter and are off to a fantastic start to the year despite a continued sluggish economic environment.
We reported revenue and adjusted earnings per share well above our expected ranges.
Revenue grew 8% over the prior year driven by small business services revenue growth of 15% of which 4% came from the PsPrint acquisition.
This quarterly growth rate was the strongest we have reported since we acquired NEBS in 2004.
Financial services revenue grew 3% over the prior year.
Checks and forms both performed well against our expectations and marketing solutions and other revenues grew 35% over the prior year and solidly in the mid-teens on an organic basis.
Adjusted diluted EPS grew 17% over a strong prior year.
We generated solid operating cash flow and we were not drawn on our credit facility during the quarter actually improving our balance sheet cash position $30 million from last December.
We continued to invest in brand awareness to help better position our marketing solutions and other services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also extended our process improvement and cost reduction initiatives (inaudible) operating cash flow as we continued to transform Deluxe.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of $.86 which included restructuring costs of $.02 per share.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $.88 was well above the upper end of our previous outlook and 17% higher than the $.55 reported in the first quarter of 2011.
Strong revenues and favorable product mix drove better (inaudible).
The restructuring charges are primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $378 million which is well above the range of our previous outlook.
Revenue was up 8% from 2011 and up 3% on a sequential quarterly basis.
All three of our business segments performed well and benefited from one extra business day in the quarter.
(inaudible) revenue of $230 million grew at 15% versus last year on a reported basis of which 4% came from the PsPrint acquisition.
While we continue to operate in a weak operating environment we delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services our safeguard distributor and dealer channels and in checks and forms.
Our core business also benefited from a routine price increase.
Financial services revenue of $91 million grew 3% versus the first quarter of last year and reflected a lower than expected secular check decline rate of just over 5%.
The impact of lower check orders was more than offset by (inaudible) order higher non-check services revenue and the migration of Citizens Financial Group.
Direct checks revenue of $58 was down 6.5% on a year-over-year basis.
Gross margin for the quarter was 66.3% of revenue up 0.7 percentage points from 2011.
(inaudible) benefit from price increases improvements in manufacturing productivity delivery initiatives and product mix were partly offset by increased delivery and material costs.
SG&amp;A expense increased $11.2 million in the quarter and was 45.5% of revenue compared to 45.9% of revenue in the same period last year.
Increased SG&amp;A associated with commissions on increased revenue 2011 acquisitions investments in revenue-generating initiatives and higher performance-based compensation expense was partially offset by benefits from continuing to execute against our cost-reduction initiatives and lower amortization related to previous acquisitions.
Excluding restructuring-related costs operating margins for the quarter were up 21% was up from the 19.7% generated in 2011.
It was above our expectations with favorability coming from strong revenue performance including a favorable product mix.
All three segments delivered strong operating margins compared to expectations.
Excluding restructuring costs small business services’ operating margin of 17.4% was down 0.9 percentage points over last year due to the higher expenses associated with the PsPrint acquisition increased commissions and investments in revenue-generating initiatives which was only partially offset by continued progress with cost reduction initiatives.
Financial services’ operating margin of 24.2% was up 5.8 points from 2011 due to higher revenue from price increases as well as continued progress with cost reductions.
Direct checks’ operating margin of 21.3% increased 4.9 points from 2011 as we continue to realize planned synergies from integrating custom direct and lower acquisition-related amortization.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements during the quarter we increased our cash and cash equivalents balance by $30 million.
As previously described in our 10-K we leveraged a favorable credit market in the first quarter and opportunistically strengthened our capital structure by amending and expanding our $200 million credit facility from a maturity date in 2013 to 2017.
Cash provided by operating activities was in line with our expectations at $52 million.
Stronger operating performance and the discontinuation of our defined contribution pension plans were more than offset by planned contributions to or VEBA trust for future medical costs and higher contract acquisition and interest payments.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $9 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $17.1 million.
Given our strong performance in the first quarter we adjusted our consolidated revenue outlook for the year to a range of 1.445 to $1.475 billion.
We are not expecting much improvement in economic conditions in the balance of the year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are also expected to increase to a range of $3.20 to $3.40 excluding $.08 related to restructuring-related costs.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full-year outlook versus 2011 including small business services revenue is expected to increase in the high single digits and benefits from our e-commerce investments price increases our distributor and dealer channels and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings are expected to offset declines in core business products.
We expect financial services revenue to decline in the low to mid-single digits range driven by secular check order declines which we expect will return to approximately seven to 8% during the remainder of the year partially offset by higher revenue per order the Citizens Financial Group migration and continued growth from non-check revenue streams.
We expect direct checks’ revenue declines in the mid- to high single digits driven by check order volume reductions in a sluggish economy additional cost and expense reductions increases in material and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness direct response campaigns marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced internet capabilities.
(inaudible) and an effective tax rate of approximately 33%.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging between 225 and $245 million in 2012 reflecting stronger earnings offset by higher income tax payments and contributions to our VEBA trust.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $15 million for the year.
2012 capital expenditures are expected to be $35 million roughly the same as 2011.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillments and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $64 million including $15 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the second quarter of 2012 we expect revenue to range from 353 to $362 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $.76 to $.81.
In comparison to the first quarter adjusted revenue and EPS is expected to be lower in the second quarter primarily due to three factors: first there was one more (inaudible) in the first quarter which represents approximately $6 million in revenue; second historically direct check revenues are strongest in the first quarter thus we expect a sequential revenue decline in this segment; third we are prudently planning FS secular check rate declines in the seven to 8% range which is above the first quarter decline rate but in line with our previous projections and historical trends over the last two years.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level and repurchase shares to offset dilution.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities we plan to pay down debt in order to further strengthen our balance sheet.
As you saw in the first quarter it is possible we may accumulate larger investments on our balance sheet in 2012 in anticipation of paying off the $85 million of notes maturing in December.
We believe our strong cash flow strengthened balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had a solid start to 2012 in the first quarter.
As we delivered on our expected cost and expense reductions toward our $50 million commitment net of investments in 2012.
Our focus in sales and marketing in 2012 will continue to be on improving sales and marketing back-end operations through process centralization simplification platform and tool consolidation and leveraging e-commerce capabilities.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean product standardization spoilage reduction and direct and indirect spend initiatives plus further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for the shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce costs in IT and other areas as more opportunities exist to improve efficiencies.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update of what we are focused on overall and then highlight progress in each of our three segments.
I will also include throughout a perspective of what we hope to accomplish during the balance of 2012.
Our primary focus in 2012 continues to be on profitable revenue growth.
We have created more differentiated technology-led check offers through investments in automated flat packaging digital printing and online portals and dashboards.
We also have significant growth opportunities in marketing solutions and other services including for small businesses logo design web services social media web-to-print search engine marketing search engine optimization payroll and fraud and security services and for financial institutions customer acquisition risk management and profitability offers.
We will continue to assess potential small to medium-sized acquisitions that complement our large customer bases with a focus on marketing solutions and other services.
We have strengthened our channels in small business to include online retail wholesale distributors dealers and major accounts.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses get and keep customers and helping small to mid-sized financial institutions with customer acquisition risk management and profitability offers.
Today we are introducing a framework that includes four subcategories that we expect to continue to use going forward in 2012 to help provide more insight and clarity for marketing solutions and other services revenue.
First small business marketing is expected to represent approximately 43% of total marketing solution and other services revenue with expected organic growth rates this year in the mid-teens although expected actual growth rates will be higher this year closer to the mid-30s given the PsPrint acquisition in July of 2011.
Key growth initiatives include scaling web-to-print by cross-selling to our customer base and adding new customers through major accounts and partners.
Second web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO email marketing social and payroll services and are expected to represent approximately 27% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue with expected growth rates this year in the high teens.
Key growth initiatives include adding wholesale telco and major accounts cross-selling to our retail base through bundled presence packages and adding new customers.
This category also is our focus area for tuck-in acquisitions.
Third fraud security and risk management services are expected to represent approximately 25% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue in 2012 with expected growth rates this year in the low double digits.
Key growth initiatives include scaling our program services for both national and community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers adding bankers dashboard customers as well as adding features for our installed bankers dashboard base.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 5% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue with expected growth rates this year in the low 30s a very high percentage driven by a small starting revenue base.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new cornerstone switch agent and gift and reward card financial institutions.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately 265 to $275 million in 2012 up from $223 million in 2011 with organic growth in the mid-teens.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 19% of revenue towards our goal of achieving a 25% mix over the strategic period and up from 16% in 2011 and 12 to 13% in the previous two years.
In addition to the items just mentioned in order to accelerate revenue growth we are continuing to invest more in brand awareness and positioning.
We are continuing to refine our branding strategy and expect to ramp spending more from the first quarter to the second quarter and even more in the third quarter.
Now shifting to our segments.
In small business services we had a strong performance despite a continued sluggish economic climate.
Revenue grew 15% 4% of which came from the PsPrint acquisition and represented the strongest rate we have reported since acquiring NEBS in 2004.
Checks and forms performed well against our expectations as did seasonal tax forms.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
We increased new customers from our Financial Institutional Deluxe Business Advantage Referral Program and through our direct response campaigns.
Response rates increased from better-balanced and enriched content in online and print-based spend.
Average order value and conversion rates remain strong.
Our safeguard distributor and dealer channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We announced a partnership with Lowe’s to reach our collective small business contractors.
We also saw growth in web SEM and payroll services.
In the quarter we won a contract with a large South American telco.
We expect to migrate their small business customer web services to our platform in the latter half of 2012.
We ended the quarter with over 500 000 web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices have improved six of the last seven months but moved down in March keeping the indices at historically low levels.
Small businesses are slowly starting to hire and planning for capital investments over the next three to six months has stabilized.
They continue to spend cautiously scrutinize purchases and experience tight cash flow.
Small businesses’ expectations for real sales gains continue to be more positive but the outlook for business conditions has become slightly more pessimistic.
In summary current optimism indices have been trending upward but improvements are still small and need to continue and be more pronounced.
The good news is that increasing sales continues to be a small business owner’s number one pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as an indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for 2012 in core small business checks and forms is on acquiring new customers increasing our share of wallet through our enhanced Shop Deluxe e-commerce site growing distributor and channel partners and improving segmentation.
We will continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our inbound outbound and online customer touch points to maximize revenue scale capability.
In marketing solutions and other services we expect to continue to gain new customers through our telco-focused wholesale web services model add customers and services in our retail model by selling web bundle packages add other marketing services payroll services and logo customers and continue to expand our search engine marketing customer base.
For web-to-print we are creating a single best-in-class integrated platform that combines organic investments we have already made in the front-end customer experience with PsPrint’s strong back-end processes and scale web-to-print offers for our small business customers.
In financial services we saw a secular check decline rate of approximately 5% which was better than our forecasted decline range of seven to 8% driven by strength in both the national and community segments although strength in the community segment was more pronounced.
In addition we began processing checks for Citizens Financial Group as planned in late January.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current quarter well in excess of 90%.
We were informed in the quarter that we did not win the very large national competitive RFP we discussed in the previous two calls.
Positively there are still opportunities we are pursuing with this financial institution in other areas.
While commending us on our value proposition and differentiated offer the financial institution said they could not afford the disruption of a migration given other competing internal priorities.
We continue to work a number of other RFPs none of which are included in our outlook in 2012.
We also simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing cost and expense structure.
Even though the first quarter secular decline rate was approximately 5% we are prudently planning for check units to remain within a decline range of around seven to 8% in 2012 for the balance of the year.
We also expect retention rates in excess of 90% on deals pending this year and with over half of our 2012 community bank contract renewals already completed by the end of the first quarter we are well ahead of last year’s pace.
As a reminder we also implemented a price increase at the start of this year.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
Revenue grew over last year in these non-check services which include customer acquisition risk management and other profitability offers.
In customer acquisition and specifically our cornerstone direct marketing analytics offer we saw continued solid growth in new financial institutions that will roll out in 2012.
We also saw a continued ramp both in adding financial institutions and in the number of switches completed for our new switch agent service.
Bankers dashboard also continued to perform well in the first quarter where we added many new financial institutions.
As you can see although not as fast as we had hoped in some areas momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these marketing solutions and other services in financial institutions in 2012.
In direct checks revenue was in line with our expectations driven by accelerated reorder rates and strong custom direct accessories revenue.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers.
Although we have made significant progress with the custom direct integration we are still working on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct consumer check experience.
We continued to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and upsell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
For 2012 we expect direct checks revenue to decline in the mid- to high single digits driven by continued declines in consumer usage and a sluggish economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and drive our operating margins in the 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit the first quarter on the heels of an exceptionally strong quarterly performance and a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe but we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2012.
Our outstanding first quarter performance positions us well to grow revenue in 2012 for our third consecutive year.
We are conservatively not expecting the economic climate to improve much throughout the year until we get better clarity as the year unfolds more.
If the economy improves we should have revenue upsides.
At the same time we will not take our eyes off of cost reductions and (inaudible) and we expect to continue to generate strong cash flows and an attractive dividend.
We have built the foundation to be an indispensable partner in helping small businesses get and keep customers by offering everything from printed products to affordable logo design web services and search engine marketing.
We help small business compete against big business and win.
In financial services we are growing beyond checks into a broad set of solutions that help banks acquire customers improve profitability and manage risk.
Our technologies and channels are stronger our e-commerce offers more robust our infrastructure better and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Now Stacey will open the call up for questions for Terry Jeff and I.
(Operator instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Charley Stauzer with CJS Securities.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Charley.
Hey a couple quick questions.
Terry for you what was adjusted net income not EPS but adjusted net income if you have that number?  Adjusted net income?  We don’t report adjusted net income externally.
So you can back into it with the you know with the EPS pieces that we gave you.
And what was the – do you know the tax rate associated with the adjusted EPS was?  I think about the same as what it is under consolidated.
All right.
They’re almost identical.
No problem.
And my phone was cutting out a little bit earlier but did you give out segment guidance on operating profits?  I know you did the sales growth ranges did you give any guidance on operating profit?  No we didn’t give any new perspective there.
You know our position on margins within the operating segment is that you know we are [inaudible] to deliver growth and operating income at the segment level and our focus is really to try to hold the margins kind of where they’ve been at.
So the growth focus is on the dollars not necessarily the margin growth rate.
But you know as we get into the segments you know small changes in levels of investments drive a little bit of a rate change.
You know usually within a point or two at the segment level.
That’s kind of where we’ve been.
It’s a spot where we expect to stay.
Got it.
And also did you get an update on [inaudible] in terms of the number of members on that site so far?  We did not Charley.
It’s not a number that we gave out today.
Got you.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then lastly on the RFP side I know you didn’t win the larger one but are there any of your larger contracts coming up for rebid in the next 12 months or so?  We have as we said consistently in the last several calls just a handful of what we would consider the larger ones but they’re very small amounts Charley relative to the big large national and those will be coming due towards the end of the year.
And we expect to obviously we expect to be able to maintain those.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome Charley.
Your next question comes from the line of John Kraft with D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Congratulations Lee to you and your team.
Thank you John.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
The first question I guess just to clarify Lee and maybe dig into it a little bit more the distribution subsets you know obviously you’ve got the newer retail and the telcom and the legacy financial services and I talked a bunch with Jeff about how these I think some of these are sort of underappreciated.
Is there a way you can give us a feel for the new customer and the contribution from each of these segments?  Is there a breakdown there that you could provide us?  John if I follow where you’re heading you’re talking about in small business services the mix of the 500 000 web services customers is that what you’re… Well yeah and the new wins the new customers that you’re gaining are they predominately still coming from the business advantage platform the financial services or is it a pretty good mix between those?  No let me give you a framework on where we’re seeing new customers and let me start.
We are still obviously as I mentioned in the prepared comments gaining customers through our Deluxe business advantage program.
But at the same time we are also gaining customers outside of that program.
What I would tell you is that the growth rate over last year was about the same I think very strong double digit growth rate in both the DDA and the non-DDA.
Okay?  Then what I would tell you is the mix between – we are also getting new wholesale customers as well as through our telco arrangements that we have.
And we are also seeing strong growth in the retail side.
So we’re actually getting strength John in DDA non-DDA and then also in the wholesale and the retail mix of the services space.
Okay well that’s helpful.
It sounds like it’s across the board there.
And then if we could also just dig into a little bit the decline in the industry or the decline in the decline on the check side of 5% in the quarter now you did exclude Citizens from that right?  Now this is the – the way to think about this is we continue to look at this thing obviously we know it’s a hot spot for ourselves let alone externally and so we do what we call a pure same-store sales or apples-to-apples compare.
So think of Citizens since it wasn’t in a year ago it’s not in those – we take them out of the compares of that approximate 5%.
Sure.
And then but you did say that there was some strength in the community bank side of things and I guess my question was if you just could guess whether maybe there’s a migration of customers from the larger banks to the community banks maybe due to that bank switch day or is it coming fairly evenly across the larger and the small banks?  I said in my comments John that we saw the rate of decline you know that 7 to 8 we’ve been seeing it was better for both the national and the community segments.
But it was stronger in the community segment.
What I will add as some additional color is that we saw the community segments in the Southeast the Northeast and the West as far as regions in the United States perform better than the remaining regions.
What I will also add is we also saw the same strength in those same Southeast Northeast and West in our direct-to-consumer part of the business or the segment.
So you know we start obviously thinking about those we knew were regions more impacted economically you know in terms of the downturn.
Lots of thoughts go through our head John nothing that I can tell you in a quarter that’s extremely more conclusive at this point but obviously you can tell we’re on this we’re watching it and you know we’re going to continue to assess this as we head into the second quarter.
Okay that’s interesting.
Thank you.
And then just one last follow up if I could.
Really in response to Charley’s question and Terry’s answer you know as I look at the trends in the [inaudible] segment margins there’s certainly some trends but what stands out for me at least is the financial services jump this quarter really to the highest I think I’ve ever seen.
Is that something that we can expect at 24-ish percent we can expect going forward?  John I’d tell you but that rate is probably on the high end [inaudible] we’d be kind of in our normal range.
You remember too we [inaudible] reminded us that we did put a price increase at the beginning of this first quarter so that’s definitely helped.
The other thing too is that when we had a lower decline rate in the check volumes than what we had expected we really saw some nice leverage on our fixed cost structure there.
So think about the manufacturer work that we’ve done to right-size that capacity we really saw some great leverage coming in that segment in particular with a lesser decline rate.
So it’s really those factors.
But I tell you you know again we haven’t assumed that same decline rate going forward so some of that leverage would go away as we move into second quarter with a higher decline rate.
Got you thanks Terry and congrats again guys.
Thank you John.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Clement with Sidoti and Company.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning gentlemen.
Hi Jamie.
All right Lee I know you all don’t talk in specific terms about margins by product line but you know given the growth you know in the marketing and other services that you all seen recently as well as the last couple of years can you talk about just directionally the margin trends there because obviously you’re balancing it with investment spending on your own brand.
I think what you should expect as we go forward is we are clearly trying to be smart and prudent on what we invest in the brand and demand gen as we’re trying to drive more customers and more volume in all of the services area.
But at the same time we’re clearly getting some of the larger acquisition amortization that’s weaning itself out.
And so we’re trying to – and so the general trend right now is we’re improving the margins in the – and collectively in there.
We really don’t you know break that out internally you know the way we run it right now.
But you know if the trend is an improvement right now because the amount we’re putting in on brand and demand gen is not as much as we’re putting in on the – or getting out on the efficiencies as we’re you know getting better at this across all the cost reductions and in the efficiencies that are the gains that we picked up from the amortization [inaudible].
So that’s the way I would think about it right now.
How’s – the channels that you all are using to promote the brand has that mix changed much over the last four quarters or do you have a pretty good sense now a couple years into the transformation where your money should go.
Well we – what we’re trying to do and I'm challenging Malcolm my small business head is I want to win in every channel.
So you know we want to win in retial we want to win in wholesale we want to win with the distributors with our partners and with major accounts.
What I would tell you is we are – and we are growing and you know as we hear in the prepared comments all those channels are continuing to gain momentum.
The one area that we’ve been targeting a little bit more is the major accounts.
We are big believers that if we can gain more access to small businesses through major accounts in fact many of those are actually franchises and actually are small business owners themselves or can gain us access to small businesses.
Those are areas that we think are going to help us even more.
And you can see that in the table I talked about that we added this time around the you know major accounts and partners.
So I would say they’re a little bit more but we’re trying to get strength Jamie across all channels.
Okay.
That is very helpful.
Thank you Lee as always for your time.
You’re welcome.
(Operator Instructions).
Your next question comes from the line of Ben Glaze with Apollo.
Please proceed.
Hi.
How are you guys doing?  Hi Ben.
Just a quick question on – maybe a high-level question how we should think about the driver of check volume between I guess new account openings and reorders.
Is there a way to help us there or – if that makes sense.
In which segment or overall? Yeah just I guess if you could break it down between small business and consumer that would be great.
I’m just curious is there’s like a mix we can think about as being the driver of the check volumes for you guys.
I’m just trying to think.
The way the market works there Ben is that they – it’s an initial order and then it’s – that’s generally going to fall on the Internet so it’s generally lower price and then a reorder that’s a higher you know higher price you know once the first order is taken.
I can’t tell you how you know probably – I’ll use a 12 to 18-month period of time between initial order and reorder.
Obviously it depends on how many they’ve – a consumer buys and then when they you know how many they write.
But that’s kind of the way that market works.
The pricing through the bank channels depending on how the banks price to the – because it’s a – our arrangement with the banks is a wholesale arrangement so generally though I believe the banks just charge on average the same whether you’re an initial order or reorder.
Hopefully that helps you a little bit.
I’m not sure if I’m helping answer your question but I think that’s the way to think about it.
The only thing I’d add to that [inaudible] new account openings we’re certain new account openings at a bank are going to drive check orders but that’s really you know a level of data that we don’t get good clear information on from the bank.
The banks supply us with the orders that are coming into the bank but they’re not necessarily tagging that or identifying that as a new order or a reorder or you know what the different drives of that order comes from.
Okay got it.
That’s very fair and I appreciate the comments.
And my other question was just kind of actually kind of the follow up to Jamie’s which I thought was a good one and would be helpful.
You had mentioned operating leverage and benefit as a result of kind of better volume performance and is there a way to help us think of that what detrimental margins or incremental margin on volume?  In the checks space again Ben? Yes just pure like checks that if we were to look at the checks products.
We don’t give that out.
It’s not something we’ve historically done but I think the way you want to think about it is if we perform better you know we get a 5% decline as opposed to a 7 to 8% decline we’re going to be able to kick in more operating margin on average and it depends on believe it or not the mix of banks the mix of checks that consumer are buying.
So it’s not a perfect answer but the best thing we can do is to say that that’s going to give you some better leverage in that operating margin.
Sure.
Okay.
Thank you.
You’re welcome Ben.
At this time I would like to turn the presentation back over to Lee Schram for closing remarks.
Okay again thanks for everybody for participating and for your questions today.
We’re now going to get back to work and we look forward to providing an positive progress report on our next earnings call and I’ll turn it over to Jeff for a wrap up.
Thank you Lee.
This is a reminder that a replay of this call will be available until May 3<sup>rd</sup> but dialing 888-286-8010.
When instructed provide the access code 97921126.
The company slides are archived in the news and investor relations section of Deluxe’s website at Deluxe.com.
Again thank you for joining us.
Have a good afternoon.
We thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude your presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the second quarter 2012 Deluxe Corporation earnings conference call.
My name is Tiffany and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question and answer session towards the end of the conference.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded for repay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Jeff Johnson Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Tiffany.
Welcome to Deluxe Corporation’s 2012 second quarter earnings call.
I am Jeff Johnson Deluxe’s Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Joining me on the call today are Lee Schram Deluxe’s Chief Executive Officer and Terry Peterson Deluxe’s Chief Financial Officer.
Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts after the prepared comments.
At that time the operator will instruct you how to ask a question.
In accordance with regulation FD this call is open to all interested parties.
A replay of the call will be available via telephone and Deluxe’s website.
I will provide instructions for accessing the replay at the conclusion of our teleconference.
Before I begin let me make this brief cautionary statement.
Comments made today regarding financial estimates and projections and any other statements addressing management’s intentions and expectations regarding the company’s future performance are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the news release that we issued this morning and in the company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st 2011.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today’s press release which is posted in the news and investor relations section of our website at deluxe.com and was furnished to the FCC on the Form 8-K filed this morning.
In particular any non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone. We had another outstanding quarter following an outstanding first quarter performance.
We are well positioned as we enter the second half of the year to grow revenue for the year in the mid-single digits despite the continued sluggish economic environment.
We reported second quarter revenue and adjusted earnings per share well above our outlook.
Revenue grew 7% over the prior year driven by Small Business Services revenue growth of 15% of which 5% came from the PsPrint and OrangeSoda acquisitions.
This quarterly growth rate matched the first quarter of 2012 for the strongest we have reported since we acquired NEBS in 2004.
Checks and Forms both performed better than our expectations and Marketing Solutions and Other Service’s revenue grew 30% over the prior year.
Adjust diluted EPS grew 13% over a strong prior year.
We also generated solid operating cash flow we’ve not drawn on our credit facility during the quarter and we increased our cash position $16 million from last December.
Encouragingly we continued to see more stabilizations than expected in secular check decline rates with financial institution consumer declines less than 5% in the quarter which is the second quarter in a row we have seen significantly lower decline rates.
We enhanced our marketing solutions and Other Services offers and capabilities with the acquisition of OrangeSoda.
We also invested more in brand awareness to help better position our marketing solutions and Other Services offering and drive future revenue growth.
Further we extended our process improvement and cost reduction initiatives while driving strong operating cash flow as we continue to transform Deluxe.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thanks Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of $0.82 which included restructuring and transaction related cost of $0.03 per share.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $0.85 was well above the upper end of our outlook and 13% higher than the $0.75 reported in the second quarter of 2011.
Strong revenues and favorable product mix drove better than expected EPS performance and more than offset an increase in variable compensation expense.
The restructuring charges are primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations while the transaction cost related to the OrangeSoda acquisition.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $371 million which was well above the range of our outlook and up 7% from 2011.
All three of our business segments performed well.
Small Business Services revenue of $233 million included $10.5 million from the PsPrint and OrangeSoda acquisitions and grew 15% versus last year on a reported basis.
While we continued to operate in a weak economic environment we delivered growth in marketing solutions and Other Services our Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels and in checks and forms.
Financial Services revenue of $86 million declined only 1% versus the second quarter of last year and reflected a lower-than-expected secular check decline rate of less than 5%.
The impact of lower check orders was mostly offset by higher revenue per order higher non-check services revenue and the addition of Citizens Financial Group.
Direct Checks revenue of $52 million was down 7.4% on a year-over-year basis.
Gross margin for the quarter was 65.6% of revenue up 0.5 percentage points from 2011.
Benefits from price increases improvements in manufacturing productivity delivery initiatives and product mix were partly offset by increased delivery rates material costs and performance base compensation expense.
SG&amp;A expense increased $10.3 million in the quarter and was 45.2% of revenue compared to 45.5% of revenue in the same period last year.
Increased SG&amp;A associated with commissions on increased revenue acquisitions and higher performance-based compensation expense and investments in revenue-generating initiatives was partially offset by benefits from continuing our cost reduction initiatives and lower amortization related to previous acquisitions.
Excluding restructuring and transaction-related cost operating margins for the quarter of 20.5% was up from the 19.9% generated in 2011 and was above our expectations with favorability coming from strong revenue performance including favorable product mix which more than offset higher performance-based compensation expense.
All three segments delivered strong operating margins.
Excluding restructuring and transaction costs Small Business Services’ operating margin of 16.9% was down 1 percentage point from last year due to expenses associated with the PsPrint and OrangeSoda acquisitions increased commissions and investments in revenue-generating initiatives which was only partially offset by continued progress with cost reduction initiatives.
Financial Services operating margin of 23.7% was up 5.7 points from 2011 due to higher revenue from price increases as well as continue progress with cost reductions.
Direct Checks’ operating margin of 30.8% increase 0.7 points from 2011 as we continued to realized planned synergies from integrating Custom Direct and lower acquisition-related amortization.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement year-to-date we increased our cash and cash equivalence balance by $16 million despite having paid cash for the OrangeSoda acquisition and repurchasing $12 million of our common stock to offset expected dilution from employee plans.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $742 million the same as at the end of 2011.
Cash provided by operating activities for the first half of the year exceeded our expectations at $99.9 million driven by stronger operating performance.
Compared to last year cash benefits from stronger operating performance and the discontinuation of our defined contribution pension plan were more than offset by higher income tax payments a planned contribution to our Vivat Trust for future medical cost in first quarter and higher contract acquisition and interest payments.
Capital expenditures for the first six months were $17 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $33 million.
On May 31 we purchased OrangeSoda for approximately $27 million using cash on hand.
The acquisition is expected to generate revenue of approximately $15 million during 2012 and be a penny dilutive to EPS in the third quarter as well as the full 2012 year after absorbing acquisition related amortization expense and transaction cost.
Given our strong performance in the second quarter and the addition of OrangeSoda we are raising our consolidated revenue outlook for the year to a range of 1.49 to $1.51 billion.
We’re not expecting much improvement in economic conditions for the balance of the year.
Positively excluding marketing solutions and Other Services in our outlook range the underlying core business is actually growing from 2011.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is also expected to increase to a range of $3.30 to $3.45 excluding $0.10 related to restructuring and transaction related cost.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full-year outlook versus 2011 including small business services revenue is expected to increase in the low double-digits as declines in core business products are expected to be offset by price increases and growth in our e-commerce distributor dealer and major accounts channel plus double-digit growth in marketing solutions and Other Services offering which now include the OrangeSoda acquisition.
We expect financial services revenue to decline in the low single digit range driven by secular check order declines which we expect to be approximately 5 to 6% for the remainder of the year partially offset by higher revenue per order the Citizens Financial Group migration and continued growth from non-check revenue streams.
Direct Checks revenue declined in the mid to high single digits driven by check volume reduction in a sluggish economy.
Additional cost and expense reduction increases in material and delivery rates increases in performance base incentive compensation continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness direct response campaigns marketing solutions and Other Service offers and enhanced internet capabilities and an effective tax rate of approximately 33%.
We are tightening our operating cash flow outlook to a range between 235 and $245 million in 2012 reflecting stronger earnings offset by higher income tax payments and a first quarter contribution to our Vivat Trust.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $20 million for the year which is higher than previously guided as we continue to aggressively renew contracts into 2013.
2012 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $35 million roughly the same as 2011.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillments and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $65 million including $15 million of acquisition related amortization.
For the third quarter of 2012 we expect revenue to range from 366 to $375 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is expected to range from $0.76 to $0.81.
In comparison to the second quarter third quarter revenue at the upper end of the range is expected to be higher despite one less business day which represents approximately $6 million in revenue.
In addition the ongoing secular decline in checks and forms is expected to be more than offset by OrangeSoda revenue and a ramp in Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenue primarily driven by new customer migration rollouts in wholesale web services.
Adjusted EPS in the third quarter is expected to be lower than the second quarter due to additional investments including $0.01 of dilution from OrangeSoda acquisition and the previously communicated increase in expected brand awareness spending.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small to medium size acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level and repurchase shares to offset dilution from employee plan as we did in the second quarter.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities; we plan to pay down debt in order to further strengthen our balance sheet.
As you saw in the first half of the year it is possible we may accumulate larger investments on our balance sheet in 2012 in anticipation of paying off the $85 million of notes maturing in December.
We believe our strong cash flow strength in balance sheet and flexible capital structure position well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid quarter as we delivered on our expected cost and expense reductions towards our $50 million commitments net of investments in 2012.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2012 continues to be improving sales and marketing back and operations through process centralization simplification platform and tool consolidation and leveraging e-commerce capability.
We consolidated our Little Rock and Joplin call centers for customer direct into our Colorado Springs Direct Checks call center in early July.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing expenditures.
In fulfillments we expect to continue our lean product standardization [inaudible] reduction and direct and indirect span reduction initiatives plus further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
We are also working to close our Joplin printing facility for Custom Direct and consolidate the work into another Deluxe printing facility by early 2013.
Finally for the shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce cost in IT and other areas as more opportunities exist to improve efficiencies.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on our key revenue growth area Marketing Solutions and Other Services including perspectives on our recent OrangeSoda acquisition and insights on the next steps for improving our brand awareness.
I will then highlight progress in each of our three segments including a perspective on what we hope to accomplish during the balance of 2012.
We have segment growth opportunities in Marketing Solutions and Other Services including for small businesses [inaudible] design web services social media web-to-print search engine marketing and optimization payroll and fraud and security services.
And for financial institutions customer acquisition risk management and profitability offers.
We will continue to access potential small to medium size acquisition that complement our large customer bases with a focus on Marketing Solutions and Other Services.
Here is an update on the four sub-categories framework we introduced on our first quarter call for Marketing Solutions and Other Services.
First small business marketing is expected to represent approximately 41% of total Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenue with expected organic growth rates this year in the high teens although expected actual growth rates will be higher this year closer to the upper 30s given the PsPrint acquisition in July of 2011.
Key growth initiatives include scaling web-to-print by cross-selling to our customer base and adding new customers through major account distributors and partners.
Second web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO e-mail marketing social and payroll services is expected to represent approximately 30% of total Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenue with expected growth rates this year in the 40% driven by the OrangeSoda acquisition.
Key growth initiatives include adding wholesale [inaudible] and major accounts cross-selling to our retail base through bundled present packages and adding new customers.
This category also is our focus area for tuck in acquisition with OrangeSoda being a good example.
OrangeSoda provides internet marketing services for small and mid-size businesses including online and mobile ads social media marketing SEO SEM pay-per-click reporting and analytics including call and conversion tracking.
They directly support over 5 000 high [inaudible] as well as 20 channel partners with strong scalable product offerings and processes a low turn rate and a seasoned management team.
We expect to leverage our retail and wholesale customer basis by significantly expanding our existing SEM and SEO capabilities.
We also have added a scalable front and to back end delivery production system able to support volume expansion while adding campaign building production and analytics capabilities.
Third fraud security and risk management service are expected to represent approximately 24% of total Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenue in 2012 with expected growth rates this year in the low double-digits.
Key growth initiatives include scaling our Program Services for both national and community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
As an example we initiated two large FI Provent rollouts in the second quarter that will ramp through the balance of the year.
It also includes adding Bankers Dashboard customer as well as adding features for [inaudible] Bankers Dashboard base.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 5% of total Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenue with expected growth rates this year in the 30% range a very high percent driven by a small starting revenue base.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new Cornerstone SwitchAgent and Gift and Reward Card financial institutions.
We expect Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenues to be approximately 280 to $290 million in 2012 up from $223 million in 2011 with organic growth in the mid-teens.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 19% of revenue towards our goal of achieving a 25% mix over the strategic period.
And up from 16% in 2011 and 12% to 13% the previous few years.
In addition to the items just mentioned in order to accelerate revenue growth we are continuing to invest more in brand awareness and positioning.
We continue to refine our branding strategy and expect to increase spending more from the second quarter to the third and fourth quarter.
Our brand awareness improvement includes differentiating our offers for small businesses around a brand platform with a key message that Deluxe is a small businesses genuine passionate partner that gives them everything they need so they can focus on what they love.
Think of it as helping small businesses pursue their unique passion while Deluxe assist them in this pursuit.
We will highlight more specific here on our third quarter earnings call after the creative and key messaging platform is introduced into the marketplace.
Now shifting to our segments.
In Small Business Services we had strong performance despite a continued sluggish economic environment.
Revenue grew 15% 5% of which came from the PsPrint and OrangeSoda acquisitions and matched the first quarter for the strongest rate we reported since acquiring NEBS in 2004.
Checks and forms performed better than our expectations.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
We increased new customers from our financial institution Deluxe business advantage referral program and through our direct response campaigns.
Response rates increased from better balance integrate content and online and print base [inaudible].
Average order value and conversion rates remained strong.
Our Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in logo web SEM SEO and payroll services.
We ended the quarter with approximately 500 000 web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism industries declined as we exited the second quarter and remained at historically low levels.
Small business spending is more for maintenance than expansion and the outlook for improvements in sales and business conditions dropped to the lowest level of the year in June.
Small businesses continue to spend cautiously scrutinize purchases and experience tight cash flow.
In summary current optimism industries have been turning downward and the outlook is not conducive for new spending or hiring.
The good news is that increasing sales continues to be a small business owners number one pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers.
Deluxe is better position as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for 2012 and core small business checks and forms is on acquiring new customers increasing our share or wallet through our enhanced shop Deluxe e-commerce site growing distributor and dealer partners adding new and cross-selling more in major accounts and improving segmentation.
<br>We will continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our inbound outbound and online customer touch points to maximize revenue scale capability.
In Marketing Solutions and Other Services we expect to continue to gain new customers through our Telco focused wholesale web services model and customers and our retail model by selling bundled web presence packages and other marketing services payroll services and logo customers [inaudible] … of 7 to 8% driven by strength in both the national and community segments.
In addition we benefited from processing checks for Citizens Financial Group in the current year quarter.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on yields pending in the current quarter in excess of 90%.
Positively we now have all our large contracts extended through the end of 2012 except one which is being worked and we have confidence we will also extend.
We also continued to work a number of competitive RFPs none of which are included in our outlook for 2012.
We also simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
We are planning for check units to be in a decline range of around 5 to 6% for the balance of the year.
We also expect retention rates in excess of 90% on yields pending this year and with about 70% of our 2012 community bank contract renewals already completed at the halfway point in the year we are well ahead of last year’s pace.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check Marketing Solutions and Other Services opportunities.
Revenue grew over last year in these non-check services which include customer acquisition risk management and other profitability offers.
In customer acquisition and specifically our cornerstone direct marketing analytics offer we saw continued growth and new financial institutions that will roll-out in 2012.
In addition to a number of community banks that have started to roll out the [inaudible] offer.
We have commitments in the second half of the year for branch pilots from four large financial institutions including one where we do not produce checks for them.
Although still early in the roll-out of our offer we continue to be excited about SwitchAgent opportunity.
A recent [inaudible] strategy and research report indicated about 11% of respondents indicated they were very likely or likely to switch financial institutions in the next 12 months.
And the survey also indicated that these respondents have average deposits 30% higher than customers who have no intention of leaving.
Bankers Dashboard also continued to perform in the second quarter as we had the highest number of new quarterly financial institution wins since closing the acquisition.
As you can see although not as fast as we had hoped in some areas momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these Marketing Solutions and Other Services in 2012.
In direct checks revenue was in line with our expectations driven by strong revenue per order and strong custom direct accessory revenue.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check related products and services to our consumers.
Although we have made significant progress with the custom direct integration we are still working on a number of initiatives to create a integrated best-in-class direct consumer check experience.
One key initiative is the integration of our Little Rock and Joplin custom direct call centers into our Colorado Direct Checks call center which was just completed in early July.
We continued to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and upscale capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
For 2012 we expect Direct Checks revenue to decline in the mid to high single digits driven by continued declines in consumer usage in a weak economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and drive our operating margins into the 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit the second quarter on the heels of a exceptionally strong quarterly performance in a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe but we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2012.
Our outstanding first half performance positions us well to grow revenue in 2012 for our third consecutive year.
We are conserveably not expecting the economic climate to improve throughout the balance of the year.
If the economy improves we should have upside in revenue.
Positively excluding Marketing Solutions and Other Services in our outlook range our underlying core business is stabilizing actually glowing from 2011.
Marketing Solutions and Other Services are expected to grow 26 to 30% this year.
At the same time we will not take our eyes off cost reductions process improvement and accelerating brand awareness and we expect to continue to generate strong cash flows and provide a very attractive dividend.
Now Tiffany I’ll let you open the line for questions.
Okay (Operator instructions).
And it looks like your first question will be coming from Charles Strauzer from CJS Securities.
Thanks good morning.
Hi John.
Just if you can delve into the check decline rates being better a little bit more get a little more color there.
Just as you talk to the banks and stuff what do you think is kind of driving those – that a couple of quarters now that it has been a few base points that you’ve expected.
What do you think the drivers are behind that?  I think that the thing that happened this quarter we mentioned in the comments Charlie we actually saw – you know in the first quarter if you remember we actually saw the community banks perform a little bit better than the nationals all though they were both lower than our expectations.
This quarter they were more in line with each other so you think about that less than 5% that was pretty consistent with both of them.
What we know in pockets there are in the nationals for example we know that some of our customers are opening new branches and because they are opening new branches we are seeing some actual growth in pockets that we haven’t seen historically.
We also know that in the case of the community business you know community – you know FI’s that we have seen kind of more consistency across the various what we call regions of the United States.
So some of those were areas again the southeast the west the northeast that were probably most hardest hit by the you know the recession.
So we are seeing more consistency there we are constantly talking to our banks about you know how and why we have seen the trends.
We actually seem to have you now a lot you know inside ourselves on the trends that we are seeing we are trying to work through those but at this point Charlie we that is what we know and that’s kind of the perspective that we have at this point – obviously very encouraging for us.
Yes the other thing that I would add Charlie too is the housing numbers have been better since the first half of the year and that typically will drive us and check orders as well.
Excellent and if we could shift it a little bit more of a longer term view and Lee we talk about from time to time is you know the ability to cross sell some of these new services across you know various platforms – you know what do you kind of see in the new cross selling abilities?  I know that it was kind of always been a work in progress and you thought you weren’t there yet but are you making progress on that front too?  We are clearly making progress – I mean on of the exciting things is that we introduced – I’ll give you an example we introduced the orange soda blend product into our retail call centers actually this week and we already have small business owners that are signed up for the blend offer.
So yes we are working our tails off to try to get as many as these offers as we have that we have added to that marketing solutions and other services into our platform and trying to get those out.
I – what I would tell you honestly Charlie is it is a work in progress.
We have a lot of work to go here where we want to be and you can look at that as a short coming I look at it as a huge opportunity for the company.
We are getting better we are performing better and we have an opportunity to do better on bringing these services that we have out to our you know small business customers.
One of the things that think is going to help and I really would like to just give a little color on the brand like I see in script but – and not really spend a lot more on that until it hits the market here in the third quarter but we are really – our belief is that the better we can do with bring that brand in – improve brand perspective and putting that out in front of small businesses we thing that is also going to help you know with how we cross sell and the you know our ability there.
Obviously the proof will be as we you know as we look at this and measure it from there but I like to think we are improving and yet I would like to think we also got a lot of opportunity out here.
Great thank you very much.
You’re welcome Charlie.
Okay and it looks like your net question will be from John Kraft from D.
A.
Davidson.
Hey guys congrats on the progress especially given the environment.
Thank you John.
I wanted to just talk about a few of the cost side of the equation here a few things.
First of all Terry you said something about closing a custom direct printing facility.
When did say that was going to happen?  We are targeting to have that completed sometime by early 2013.
Okay and then on the increased delivery expenses can you remind me that percent of your FI’s are using the flat packaging?  Percent of our FI’s is 100.
Oh everybody – well but it hasn’t been adopted across all of them is that…  Yes all of our FI’s are and have the flat packaging and have for several years at this point.
There are sometimes that we do send out – if a customer orders several boxes of checks we might put that in a box and send that out UPS but after seeing them double all of the FI’s have adopted the FI packaging.
Interesting okay I didn’t realize that.
And then on the small business side of things you said that the impacting in the quarter there was some [inaudible] print acquisition expenses and some higher sales commissions.
I guess where do you see the margin on that segment trend ending in the near term and give a longer term target?  You know we’re still pretty consistent in terms of revenues and the margin and margin potential in that business – you know we still invest quite a bit into the s-small business segment and we [inaudible] universal target kind of that upper teens that is kind of where we see that margin for you know not only you know the short term year but I would say in the mid-term as well.
And John it’s always going to be a little lumpy here you know – I mean when we you know obviously given the performance that we had we had – we made some comments around arranging or increasing our performance instead of compensation and so we have to put that in and we allocate everything out as you know to our segments we don’t keep anything at the corporate level.
So you are going to cease but you are also going to see some spikes when you make decisions to spend a little bit more on the brand area but I think Terry said it well we expect you know high teens and you know the performance is exactly in line with where we expect this point at time – we are actually very pleased with the small business margins and where they are at and where they are going.
Great that’s helpful.
That’s all that I got guys thanks.
You’re welcome John.
(Operator Instructions).
Okay and it looks like your next question is from Jamie Clement with Sidoti and Company.
LLC</strong>  Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Jamie.
LLC</strong> I was wondering if you might give a little bit more clarity in terms of the allocations of CapEx and how that's changed over the last couple of years as you build your services offerings.
Are those business I mean obviously it's different from the current manufacturing business but how much capital are those businesses requiring as kind of a percentage of a total over the course of the year?  I mean do you have a rough number you could give us?  Here's the way I would think about strategically how we position in capital.
If you think about the marketing solutions and other services where we're getting – I mentioned in the script Jamie that we're going to have some bigger rollouts in the second half of the year in the wholesale area.
So that's an area we've had to put some more server capacity in in order to really be able to ramp those rollouts.
We look at those as a very positive use of capital.
We also have capital that we mentioned in the web to print area.
If you think about getting to that what I call best in class opportunity there we're setting dollars on that.
We're setting dollars on e-commerce and capital.
That and those are they were more on putting the flat packaging several years ago.
They're now shifting more to I would call it more revenue generating opportunities.
LLC</strong> That's what I was asking was more the shift.
That's what I was curious about your capital spending has been you know it's been pretty stable.
But I also would add that as we integrate and continue to get cost out and especially in the fulfillment area there are some other capital plays that we have there.
But that is clearly to a lesser degree than what we've historically done.
So much more of the capital is going towards revenue generating plays than not.
Terry anything you want to add?  Yes the other thing that I would add kind of related to this but beyond a bit of capital is that when we invest in new products that are being developed organically that might require say technology investments typically because we don’t know how successful they will be in the marketplace we actually expense those.
So there's kind of capital types of expenditures that are actually expense.
So many of our initiatives don’t even show up in the capital buckets.
LLC</strong> Understood and last question is a follow-up on Charley's.
The rate of check decline or check usage being sub 5% was that excluding the citizens and that was excluding the price?  That was just pure unit?  That's user retail from my retail days at MCR.
That is a same source sales approach.
So that's the way to think about it and that's how we look at the business.
So yes it excludes.
That's unit decline.
And volume only no price consideration there.
Right and no citizens.
LLC</strong> Okay well done.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Okay and so there are no more questions.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Lee Schram for closing remarks.
I just want to thank everybody for your participation and thanks for the questions that we got today.
And as I consistently kind of say each quarter we're going to get back to work now and we look forward to providing a positive progress report on our next earning's call.
And I'll turn it over to Jeff for the wrap up.
Thank you Lee.
This is a reminder that a replay of this call will be available until August 2nd by dialing 888-286-8010.
When instructed provide the access code 59901479.
The accompanying slides are archived in the news and investor relations section of Deluxe's website at Deluxe.com.
Again thank you for joining us.
Have a good afternoon.
Thank you for your participation on today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentleman and welcome to the Q3 2012 Deluxe Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Clinton and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answers session towards the end of the conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And now I turn the call over to today’s host Mr.
Jeff Johnson Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Glenn.
Welcome to Deluxe Corporation’s 2012 third quarter earnings call.
I’m Jeff Johnson Deluxe’s Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me on the call today are Lee Schram Deluxe’s Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson Deluxe’s Chief Financial Officer.
Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts after the prepared comments.
At that time the operator will instruct you how to ask a question.
In accordance with Regulation FD this call is open to all interested parties.
A replay of the call will be available via telephone and Deluxe’s website.
I will provide instructions for accessing the replay at the conclusion of our teleconference.
Before I begin let me make this brief cautionary statement.
Comments made today regarding financial estimates and projections in any other statements addressing management’s intentions and expectations regarding the company’s future performance.
Our forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the news release we issued this morning and in the company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during the call is addressing greater detail in today’s press release which is posted in the news and Investor Relations section of our website deluxe.com and was furnished to the SEC on the Form 8-K filed this morning.
In particular any non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release  Now I’ll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
We just delivered our third outstanding quarter this year and are well positioned to grow revenue for the full year 6% to 7% despite the continued sluggish economic environment.
2012 would represent the third consecutive year of revenue growth.
The last time we achieve three consecutive years of revenue growth dates back 16 years to 1996.
We reported third quarter revenue and adjusted earnings per share well above our outlook.
Revenue grew almost 7% over the prior year driven by small business services revenue growth of 14% of which 4% came from the OrangeSoda acquisition.
Checks and forms both perform well and marketing solutions and other services revenues grew 23% over the prior year.
Adjusted diluted EPS grew 9% over our strong prior-year.
We also generated very strong operating cash flow we’re not drawn on our credit facility during the quarter and we have increased our cash position $77 million from last December.
Encouragingly we continue to see stabilization in secular checked-declined rates with financial institution consumer declines less than 5% in the quarter which is the third quarter in a row we have seen significantly lower decline rates.
We also continue to invest in brand awareness to help better position our marketing solutions and other services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
Further we extended our process improvement and cost reduction initiatives while driving strong operating cash flow as we continue to transform Deluxe.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress in next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thanks Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of $0.81 which included restructuring costs of $0.04 per share.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $0.85 was well above the upper-end of our previous outlook and 9% higher than the $0.78 reported in the third quarter of 2011.
Strong check and forms revenue in small business services and financial services and lower discretionary spend drove better than expected EPS performance.
The restructuring charges were primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $378 million which was well above the range of our outlook and up 6.5% from 2011.
All three of our business segments performed well.
Small business services revenue of $244 million grew 14% versus last year on a reported basis of which nearly $8.5 million came from the OrangeSoda acquisition.
While we continue to operate in a weak economic environment.
We delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services our Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels and in checks and forms.
Financial services revenue of $83 million declined less than 3% versus the third quarter of last year and reflected a lower than expected secular decline – check decline rate of less than 5%.
The impact of lower check orders was mostly offset by price increases.
The addition of Citizens Financial Group and higher non-check services revenue.
Direct checks revenue of $51 million was down 8% on a year-over-year basis.
Gross margins for the quarter was 65.2% of revenue down 0.3 percentage points from 2011.
Benefit from price increases improvements in manufacturing productivity and other cost reduction initiatives were more than offset by increased delivery rates material cost and performance-based compensation expense.
SG&amp;A expense increased $8.6 million in the quarter it was 45.3% of revenue compared to 45.8% of revenue in the same period last year.
Increased SG&amp;A is associated with commissions on increased revenue higher performance based compensation expense in the OrangeSoda acquisition last quarter was partially offset by benefits from our continuing cost reduction initiatives.
Excluding restructuring costs operating margin for the quarter of 20.0% was up slightly from the 19.9% generated in 2011 and was above our expectations with favorability coming from a higher revenue per order and continued cost reductions partially offset by a higher performance based compensation expense and the OrangeSoda acquisition last quarter.
All three segments delivered strong operating margins.
Excluding restructuring costs Small Business services operating margin of 17.1% was down 0.2 percentage points from last year due to expenses associated with the OrangeSoda acquisition higher performance based compensation expense and increased commissions partially offset by continued progress with cost reduction initiatives and price increases.
Financial services operating margin of 21.9% was up 2.7 points from 2011 due to higher revenue from price increases as well as continued progress with cost reductions.
Direct checks operating margin up 31.0% was in line with 2011.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements year-to-date we have increased our cash and cash equivalents balance by $77 million despite having paid cash for the OrangeSoda acquisition and repurchasing $12 million of our common stock to offset expected dilution from employee plans.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $742 million the same as at the end of 2011.
Cash provided by operating activities for the first three quarters of the year was $177 million which was $6 million higher than last year and exceeded our expectations driven by stronger operating performance.
Compared to last year stronger operating performance and the discontinuation of our defined contribution pension plan were partially offset by higher income tax payments our planned contribution to our VEBA Trust for future medical costs in the first quarter and higher contract acquisition payments.
Capital expenditures for the first nine months were $26 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $50 million.
Given our strong performance in the third quarter we are raising our consolidated revenue outlook for the year to a range of $1.508 billion to $1.515 billion.
We are not expecting much improvement in economic conditions for the balance of the year positively excluding marketing solutions and other services in our outlook range.
The underlying core business is actually growing from 2011.
Adjusted diluting earnings per share is also expected to increase to a range of $3.43 to $3.50 excluding $0.13 related to restructuring and transaction related costs.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full year outlook versus 2011 including small business services revenue is expected to increase in the low double-digit and declines in core business products are expected to be offset by price increases and growth in our e-commerce distributor dealer and major accounts channels plus double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings which now include the OrangeSoda acquisition.
We expect financial services revenue to decline in the very low single digits range driven by a secular check order declines which we expect will be approximately 5% to 6% in the fourth quarter partially offset by higher revenue per order.
The Citizens Financial Group migration and continued growth from non-check revenue streams.
Direct checks revenue declined in the mid to high-single digits driven by check volume reductions in a sluggish economy.
Additional cost and expense reductions increases in material and delivery rates increases in performance-based incentive compensation continued investments and revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness direct response campaigns marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities and an effective tax rate of approximately 33%.
We are tightening our operating cash flow outlook to a range between $239 million and $245 million in 2012 reflecting stronger earnings offset by higher income tax and contract acquisition payments and a first quarter contribution to our VEBA Trust.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $20 million for the year.
2012 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $35 million roughly the same as 2011.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $65 million including $15 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 we expect revenue to range from $381 million to $388 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is expected to range from $0.85 to $0.92.
In comparison to the third quarter fourth quarter revenue is expected to be higher due to seasonal holiday and tax form offers and that continued ramp in marketing solutions and other services revenue primarily driven by new customer migration rollouts in wholesale web services.
Adjusted EPS in the fourth quarter is expected to be higher than the third quarter due to the higher revenue level partially offset by an expected increase in brand awareness spending.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level and repurchase shares to offset dilution from employee plans as we did in the second quarter.
Finally we plan to pay off the $85 million of notes maturing in December without drawing on our credit facility.
We believe our strong cash flow strength in balance sheet and flexible capital structure positioned us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiative.
Overall we had another solid quarter as we delivered on our expected costs and expense reductions towards our $50 million commitments net of investments in 2012.
Our focus in sales and marketing in the fourth quarter continues to be on improving sales and marketing backend operations through process centralization simplification platform and tool consolidation and leveraging e-commerce capabilities.
We consolidated our Little Rock and Joppa call centers for Custom Direct into our Colorado Springs Direct Checks call center in early July.
We will continue to improve the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing expenditures.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean product standardization spoilage reduction and direct and indirect spend reduction initiatives plus further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
We are also working to close by the end of the year our Custom Direct Joppa printing facility and our SBS Rockford printing facility with all work being consolidated into other Deluxe printing facilities.
Finally for the shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce costs in IT and other areas as more opportunities exist to improve efficiencies.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on our key revenue growth area marketing solutions and other services and insights on next steps for improving our brand awareness.
I will then highlight progress in each of our three segments including the perspective on what we hope to accomplish in the fourth quarter and finally provide some context looking forward to 2013.
We have significant growth opportunities in marketing solutions and other services including for small businesses well the design web services social media Web-to-print search engine marketing and optimization payroll and fraud and security services.
And for financial institutions customer acquisition risk management and profitability offers.
We will continue to assess potential small to medium-sized acquisitions that complement our large customer bases with a focus on marketing solutions and other services.
Here is an update on the four subcategories framework we introduced on our first quarter call for marketing solutions and other services.
First small business marketing is expected to represent approximately 41% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue with expected organic growth rates this year in the high teens.
Although expected actual growth rates will be higher this year closer to the mid ‘30s given the PsPrint acquisition in July 2011.
Key growth initiatives include scaling Web-to-print by cross-selling to our customer base and continuing to add new customers through major accounts distributors and partners.
Second web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SCM SCO email marketing social and payroll services as expected to represent approximately 30% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue with expected growth rates this year close to 40% driven by the OrangeSoda acquisition.
Key growth initiatives and performance drivers include adding wholesale Telco and major accounts cross-selling to our retail base through bundled presence packages adding new customers resellers and partners and reducing web design and SCM campaigns cycle times and turn rates also which ended the quarter at record low rates.
This category is also our focus area for tuck-in acquisitions with OrangeSoda being a good example.
Third fraud security and risk management services are expected to represent approximately 24% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue in 2012 with expected growth rates this year in the high single digits.
Key growth initiatives include scaling our program services for both national and community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
It also includes adding banker’s dashboard customers as well as adding features for our installed banker’s dashboard base.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 5% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue with expected growth rates this year in the 25% range a very high percent driven by a small starting revenue base.
Key growth initiatives here including adding new CornerStone SwitchAgent and gift and reward card financial institutions.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $285 million in 2012 up from $223 million in 2011 with organic growth in the mid-teens.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 19% of revenue towards our goal of achieving a 25% mix over the strategic period and up from 16% in 2011 and 13% and 12% the previous two years.
In addition to the items just mentioned in order to accelerate revenue growth we are continuing to invest more in brand awareness and positioning.
Our brand awareness improvement starts with differentiating our offers for small businesses around the brand platform with the key message that Deluxe is a genuine passionate small business partner that gives them everything they need so they can focus on what they love.
Think of it as Deluxe helping small businesses to pursue very unique passion.
We have been working closely with the national outside agency while at the same time improving our online site architecture content integration and design in our call center experiences.
We spent a little less than expected in the third quarter on the brand transformation simply given the timing and building out of this new integrated platform.
For the year we will basically spend what we expected to spend in the second half of the year from our July earnings call guidance.
But the timing will be shifted more heavily to the fourth quarter.
So what should you expect to see from us.
Our rollout is expected to begin late in the fourth quarter with television digital including mobile and print ads.
And we expect to continue this throughout 2013 and three primary bursts weighted more heavily towards the first half of the year.
Our whole customer experience from on line to our call centers will be improved and integrated into this full brand transformation experience.
We believe the outcome of our brand transformation will be messaging that is compelling emotional humorous edgy memorable and differentiated but simple.
A real rallying cry for our brand and our people.
For competitive reasons we will not disclose the messaging or intended investment levels beyond these initiatives behind these initiatives at this time but look for our new advertising to begin later this quarter.
We have established return on investment criteria based on the number of impressions expected site visits online leads and calls and we’ll use results against these metrics to guide us as we progress on this new brand journey.
Now shifting to our segments.
In small business services we had strong performance despite a continued sluggish economic climate.
Revenue grew 14% 4% of which came from the OrangeSoda acquisition.
Checks and forms performed well.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improve.
We increased new customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage referral program and for our Direct Response campaigns.
Response rates increase from better balance (inaudible) rich content and online and print-based spend.
Average order value and conversion rates remain strong.
Our Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw growth in web SEM SEO and payroll services.
We ended the quarter with approximately 525 000 web-hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices declined for the last five months including slightly in September as we exited the third quarter and remained at historically low levels.
Small business spending is more for maintenance than expansion and remains weak.
But the outlook for improvement in business conditions over the next six months did improve as we exited the quarter.
Small businesses continue to spend cautiously scrutinized purchases and experienced tight cash flow.
In summary current optimism indices have been trending downward and the outlook is not conducive for new spending for hiring.
The good news is that increasing sales continues to be a small business owners number one pain point.
And our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses to get and keep customers.
Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for the fourth quarter in core small business checks and forms is on acquiring new customers increasing our share wallet through our enhanced shop Deluxe e-commerce site growing distributor and dealer partners adding new and cross-selling more in major accounts and improving segmentation.
We will continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our inbound outbound and online customer touch points to maximize revenue scale capability.
We also expect higher seasonal holiday and tax form revenues.
In marketing solutions and other services we expect to continue to gain new customers through our telco-focused wholesale web services model and customers and services in our retail model by selling bundled web presence packages add other web to print marketing services payroll services and logo customers and continue to expand our search engine marketing customer base.
In financial services we saw a third consecutive quarter of a better than expected secular checked decline rate with an actual decline of less than 5% which was better than our forecast to decline range of 5% to 6% driven by strength in both the national and Community segments.
In addition we benefited from processing checks for Citizens Financial Group in the current quarter.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remained strong and deals pending in the current quarter in excess of 19%.
Positively we now have commitments to extend all our large contracts through the end of 2013.
We also continue to work a number of competitive RFPs and expected decision on one this quarter and we’re somewhat favorably informed not know but not now on another one.
We also simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
We are planning for check units to be in a decline range of around 5% to 6% for the fourth quarter.
We also expect retention rates in excess of 90% on deals pending in the fourth quarter and with close to 90% of our 2012 community bank contract renewals already completed with three quarters of the year behind us we remain well ahead of last year’s pace.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
Revenue grew over last year in these non-check services which include customer acquisition risk management and other profitability offers.
The customer acquisition and specifically our cornerstone direct marketing analytics offer we saw continued growth in new financial institutions that will roll out in the fourth quarter.
In addition to a number of community banks that have started to roll out our new SwitchAgent offer we have initiated branch pilots from four large financial institutions including one where we do not produce checks for them.
Although still early in the rollout of our offer.
We continue to be excited about SwitchAgents’ opportunity.
For the first time ever we recently presented that innovates false show specifically showcasing our SwitchAgent offer.
The positive customer and media responses we have seen from this abound are very encouraging.
Banker’s Dashboard also continued to perform well in the third quarter as you can see although not as fast as we had hoped in some areas momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these marketing solutions and other services in 2012.
Indirect checks revenue was in line with our expectations driven by strong revenue per order and strong Custom Direct accessories revenue.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide us another check-related products and services to our consumers.
Although we have made significant progress with the Custom Direct integration.
We are still working on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We completed the integration of our Little Rock and Joppa for Custom Direct call centers into our Colorado Springs – Direct Checks call center in July.
And are now working on integrating our job with Custom Direct fulfillment into a Deluxe fulfillment site which we expect to complete by the end of 2012.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up sell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
For 2012 we expect direct checks revenue to decline in the mid to high-single digits driven by continued declines in consumer usage in a weak economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and drive our operating margins in the 30% range all generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit the third quarter on the heels of another outstanding quarterly performance and a continued challenging economy we made good progress again in transforming Deluxe but we still had a lot of work and opportunities ahead of us.
We are continuing to prudently plan that the economic climate will not improve in the fourth quarter.
Our primary focus continues to be on revenue growth especially in marketing solutions and other services and on our new brand positioning.
We expect to continue to trend our revenue growth in the fourth quarter with solid mid single-digit growth.
If the economy improves in the fourth quarter we should have some upside in small business services revenue.
At the same time we will not take our eyes off the cost reductions and process improvements.
And we expect to continue to generate strong cash flows and provide a very attractive dividend.
Looking ahead to 2013 our portfolio continues to become better positioned to deliver continued sustainable revenue growth.
We are planning for what we expect to be a fourth consecutive year of revenue growth.
Given the continuing sluggish economic climate we believe it is prudent right now to expect the increase in 2013 revenue to be approximately 2% to 4% compared to 2012 which is expected to produce adjusted diluted earnings per share growth ranging from approximately 3% to 6%.
With the assumption that we will be spending more on brand awareness and also have a higher tax rate in 2013 compared to 2012.
We give some more color on our revenue thinking.
We are planning on consumer checks through financial institutions to decline 5% to 6%.
On top of this positively as we indicated earlier we have extended all large financial institution contracts through at least 2013.
Now we have approximately 15% your community bank contract dollars up for renewal in 2013 compared to 2012.
So these should help to stabilize core checks plus we have more competitive opportunities coming due through 2013.
In business products we expect to expand existing organic initiatives including Shaft Deluxe in Canada and to add Safeguard distributors dealers and major accounts.
In marketing solutions and other services we expect organic mid-teens revenue growth.
To give some more color on or thinking here if we annualize 2012 expected revenue including adjusting for a full-year of OrangeSoda and organically grow in the mid teens this would imply a targeted marketing solutions and other services revenue to total revenue mix of approximately 22% for the year.
While we expect to exit the fourth quarter of 2013 closer to a 25% mix.
We are excited with our progress here and with the more cooperative economy and continued possible additional tuck-in acquisitions as catalysts we could potentially grow marketing solutions and other services revenue even faster.
We also expect our costs and expense reduction initiatives to continue in 2013.
A couple of extremely important housekeeping items to consider for the first quarter of 2013.
First there are actually two less business days in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 2012 which will represent approximately $12 million less in revenue year-over-year resulting in a lower profit.
Along with an expected higher tax rate and expected higher brand spending year-over-year as well in the first quarter.
This in all likelihood will drive a decline in EPS in the first quarter of 2013 mostly due to the timing of two less business days.
Only one of the business days comes back in the year in the third quarter and therefore we have one less business day in 2013 then in 2012 for the full year.
It is also extremely important for us to see how the fourth quarter progresses and to closely monitor the marketplace and the economy over the next three months before providing more specific outlook details for 2013.
And now Terry Jeff and I will open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from line of Charles Strauzer of CJS Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Charles.
Hey a couple of questions.
Obviously with the check declines pretty low rate here and better handle on kind of dynamics or causes behind that? Charlie what we’re doing and I think we’re continue to get smarter and smarter about looking out and looking at what the check rates have decline are and as I said in my prepared comments the nice thing again this quarter as we saw both the community and the national accounts performed better than we expected.
So it’s consistent now we’ve seen that now for several quarters.
What I would also tell you is we’re trying to get smarter and smarter every day looking at what are the drivers of the decline rates and I give you some examples of things that we’re working on.
We’re still going through the rigor of this but when we look at things such as housing stock an automatic bill pay credit card payments branches that are opening and closing we’re just getting smarter and smarter about being able to try to be more predictive about where we expect the decline rates to go.
So we’re not ready to decline victory on this but we know it’s important we know investors are wanting us to try to get more information to be smarter and smarter about our projections in our rates of decline.
And what we’re trying to do is work hard at looking at all these variable factors and trying to figure out how can we get more predictive.
But again the nice thing that we’ve seen is the consistency both in the national and the community bank space right now.
Very good.
And then you talked about some of the RFPs or the pending of these; one was not know but not now maybe if you can kind of clarify that a little bit what’s that mean that – it’s potentially an award or is that one way that just kind of saying like you know what we’re just delay it’s a decision.
I mean you help us clarify a little bit of that? Yeah.
I think the simple answer is that they told us we’re not ready to make a move.
But we’re not – it’s not a long-term decision.
As you know most of these contracts whether they’re competitive ones or ours are generally three to five-year contracts.
And so the best I can leave with you is that we were told not know but not now.
Okay.
Very good.
And then lastly when you look at the October NFIB kind of small business optimism numbers they weren’t very great.
But kind of ticked downward again just in general what you’ve seen from when you talk to small businesses out there? And just the general sense seems like the uncertainty around the election is still kind of holding people back is that kind of what you’re seeing as well? Yeah I think it’s in my prepared comments.
So I think it’s tough out there.
And I think we’re meeting more and more we actually even spent more time this quarter with small businesses at large because of our testing on the brand and the work that we’re doing on the brand.
And what I’d tell you is yeah I think – we think it’s challenging out there.
And as I also said on my prepared comments what we like about what we’re doing Charlie is when we did some more work with some outside parties in the quarter and we continue to see that the number one pain point is revenue growth for small businesses.
And again we believe the work that we’ve been doing and that we’re doing as we go forward to get our offers including this new services offers that help small businesses to get and keep and help them grow with their customers is really on the mark.
And I think that’s why we’re excited about where we’re going directionally.
And it would be like a better economy shore but we’re going to work with the hand we’re dealt and we’re going to try to continue to improve the company as much as we can.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome Charlie.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of John Kraft of DA Davidson.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hey John.
Hi John.
Hey congrats first of all.
And a couple for each of you.
Lee you said you were keeping an eye out for tuck-in acquisitions on the SBS side.
Are there any particular products if you like you’re missing or any particular focus that you might be looking for? Yeah as I said we’re focused primarily in the marketing solutions and the other services space and more in the services piece of that.
John we are trying to continue to assess.
What I would call the evolution of how our small business owner evolved as a business.
So it’s early on and they’re trying to figure out how to brand themselves and get online and then moved to promote themselves and then to really get more customers.
There are several areas that we were continuing to look at to see if it makes sense for us to dig deeper and get more offers or get more depth and capability in those phases.
And I’m not prepared to give you any more color other than that but that’s how we’re looking at it and one other things that I want to highlight again I think is really important is the work that we’re doing to bring the brand together with the continuity from our call center – into our call centers into our online offers content capability.
We come out with this later in the fourth quarter we think this is going to be a powerful positive formula for us as well.
And so what we’re doing John as we’re trying to validate what that’s going to bring and then what pieces that we think we might need to be looking at more closely to round out that our qualitative tool kit for that small business owner.
So that’s how we’re looking at it right now.
That’s helpful.
Thanks Lee.
And just a clarification on the guidance that I’m assuming assumes no new acquisitions in there or competitive RFP wins? Correct.
And a couple for you Lee.
I’m sorry for you Terry.
You mentioned consolidating a couple of check centers and I guess I was wondering about a timeline there was that early 2013? Now that we have two pretty facilities that we are consolidating will be done later this year; one is a check free facility in the Direct Checks space the other is actually a pretty center in small business and that does not produce checks.
The Rockford.
Okay.
And then separately on that the tax increase in 2013 you suggested might move up a little bit.
Right now you’re saying 33 where we think in 35.
What’s the best guess at this point? We haven’t put our specific guidance on that yet so I won’t give a specific number right now but we had really over the past couple of years we’ve had some benefits which just some of the quarters that have been more one-time in nature.
And we expect the delta between this year and next year really to be attributed to fewer of those one-time benefits.
Okay that’s fair.
Good job guys.
Looking forward to hearing and seeing those ads.
Thank you John.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Clement of Sidoti.
Please go ahead.
Lee Terry Jeff good morning.
Hi Jamie.
Hi Jamie.
Hi.
Hi hi.
The question – most have been asked and has been answered.
But I wanted to ask you a financial services in direct check and obviously a significant majority portion of margin being derived by checks in those segments.
And margins continue to be very strong this year as you look out over the next 12 to 24 months I mean would you expect some natural erosion in those markets with the erosion in kind of volume over time or do you think you have enough in the way of taking costs out to be able to keep them at these levels? Jamie let me deal with direct checks because it’s easier to give some color on that.
We expected to stay tight to that 30% range.
I’ve used language when I put it out usually at the beginning of the years plus or minus a couple of points around 30%.
I think Terry and I expect that to be the case as we go forward.
I think in the case of – again without trying to be too specific in the case of financial services I want you to remember that we are beginning to invest more in the non-check services area.
And as we make investments and we start to make some of those investments in the third quarter we’re making some more investments in the fourth quarter I think we’ll make more investments as we head into 2013 to come out with offers that we think are going to hit the mark primarily for the community banks part of the market but even up into some of our larger customers there.
We’re going to make some investments there and yeah I think that will have some implications potentially for margin.
But look we know it’s important to keep the margin profile strong in our check businesses.
And also you’ve probably heard my comment about we will continue our cost and expense reduction initiatives in 2013.
We’re not prepared to give a specific number right now for that but we’re staying after it.
And so the real question Jamie is going to come down to how do we balance that exactly in the margin profile in implications for that financial services business.
That’s the way I think you should think about it for modeling purposes.
Okay.
Great.
And last question if I may.
Can you talk about the importance of search engine marketing and search engine optimization on your small business customers.
How mobile is kind of impacting I would imagine you’re getting as many questions at the LOCs as your answer as you were asking to your own customers.
So I’m curious for your thoughts just considering that market (inaudible) that you ready to began? Look we are extremely thrilled with the OrangeSoda acquisition.
It’s done a number of things for us in addition to bring us a nice revenue stream and a bunch of smart people and just an unbelievable positive culture.
They’re teaching us how to look at channels and customers and bring those search results to our small business customers.
I just make a comment because this is really interesting I’m going to have an update with the key leaders of the company this afternoon and we’re going to show a video of a spa owner in Connecticut and it’s a testimonial and I watched it yesterday for the first time and I told my small business leader.
This is just incredibly tremendous I mean she talks very eloquently and very clearly about how we brought search engine marketing and optimization to her spa and how she’s using that Jamie to really build her customer network.
So we’re just really excited about or we’re seeing strong results so far and we’re obviously expecting to be able to build on that and we’re also learning about churning and how to deal better with churn from the – just a great group of people that we’ve guided so there as well.
So that’s the way I would think about and look at it right now and obviously we’re really introduced about the direction here.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Lee Schram for closing remarks.
Okay.
I just want to thank everybody again for their participation and questions that we got today.
And as I normally say we’re going to get back to work we got a lot left to do and we look forward to providing some more positive progress on our next earnings call.
And I’m going to turn it over to Jeff for some closing housekeeping comments.
Thank you Lee.
This is a reminder that a replay of this call will be available until November 1 by dialing 888-286-8010 when instructed provide the access code 466-727-95.
The accompanying slides are archived in the news and Investor Relations section of Deluxe’s website at deluxe.com.
Again thank you for joining us.
Have a great afternoon.
Thank you for joining in today’s conference.
This concludes our presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2012 Deluxe Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sheyla [ph] and I’ll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode.
Before we’ll end the conference we will conduct the question and answer session.
If at any time during the call you require operator assistance please press star zero and an audio coordinator will be happy to assist you.
As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to now turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Jeff Johnson Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Sheyla [ph].
Welcome to the Deluxe Corporation’s 2012 fourth quarter earnings call.
I’m Jeff Johnson Deluxe’s Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Joining me on the call today are Lee Schram Deluxe’s Chief Executive Office and Terry Peterson Deluxe’s Chief Financial Officer.
Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts after the prepared comments.
At that time the instructor the operator will instruct you how to ask a question.
In accordance with regulation FD this call is open to all interested parties.
A replay of the call will be available via telephone in Deluxe’s website.
I will provide instructions for accessing the replay at the conclusion of our teleconference.
Before I begin let me make this brief cautionary statement.
Comments made today regarding financial estimates and projections and any other statements addressing management’s intentions and expectations regarding the company’s future performance are forward looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the news release we issued this morning and in the company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today’s press release which is posted on our investor relations website at deluxe.com/investor and was furnished to the SEC on the Form 8-K filed this morning.
In particular any non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
Deluxe delivered our fourth outstanding quarter of 2012.
We reported revenue at the top end of our outlook in adjusted earnings per share above the high end of our outlook.
Revenue grew 6% over the prior year quarter driven by small business services revenue growth of 11% of which 3% came from the OrangeSoda acquisition.
Checks and forms all performed well against our expectations and marketing solutions and other services revenues grew 26% over the prior year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 14.5% over the prior year.
We launched our new brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and delivered on our $50 million cost reduction commitment which generating a strong $244 million in operating cash flow for the year.
We extinguished higher interest rate 2015 debt and issued new lower interest rate 2020 debt while also paying off our remaining 2012 debt in mid December.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of $0.83 which included losses of $0.07 per share from early debt retirement in the quarter and restructuring charges of $0.05 per share.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS from continuing operations of $0.95 exceeded the upper end of our previous outlook and was 14.5$ higher than the $0.83 reported in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The restructuring charges are primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $388 million and grew 6% over last year and 2% sequentially from last quarter.
All three of our business segments performed well in spite of an estimated negative revenue impact of around $2 million to $3 million from hurricane Sandy.
Small business services revenue of $254 million grew 11% versus last year on a reported basis including OrangeSoda which added nearly $8 million of revenue in the quarter.
While we continue to operate in a weak environment economically we delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services checks and in our online Safeguard distributor and dealer channels.
Small business and services revenue also benefitted from previous price increases.
Financial services revenue of $82 million was basically flat versus the fourth quarter of last year.
The impact of lower check orders offset the benefits of price increases revenue from the citizens financial group and higher non-check services revenue.
Direct checks revenue totaled $51 million which was down 7% on a year-over-year basis.
Gross margin for the quarter was 64.5% of revenue which was flat with 2011.
Benefits from price increases improvements in manufacturing productivity and delivery initiatives were offset by increased delivery and material rates and performance base compensation expense in 2012.
SG&amp;A expense increase $10.3 million in the quarter and was 43.8% of revenue compared to 43.5% of revenue in the same period last year.
Increased SG&amp;A associated with commissions on increased revenue higher performance base compensation expense the OrangeSoda acquisition and higher brand awareness spending was partially offset by benefits from our continuing cost reduction initiatives.
Excluding restructure recharges adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 21.1% which was nearly flat with the 21.4% generated in 2011 but better than our expectations.
All three segments delivered strong operating margins compared to expectations.
Excluding restricting charges small business services operating margin of 17.9% was down 1 percentage point over last year due to higher SG&amp;A driven by the OrangeSoda acquisition and higher brand spending.
Financial service operating margin of 23.8% was up 2.6 points from 2011 due to better product and services mix and cost reductions.
Direct checks operating margin up 32.7% increase 0.8 points from 2011 as we continue to realize planned synergies from integrating custom direct and lower acquisition related amortization.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement for the year we increased our cash and cash equivalents balance by $17 million despite having paid cash for the OrangeSoda acquisition and repurchasing $27 million of our common stock to offset expected dilution from employee plans and reducing our debt.
Total of debt at the end of the year was $653 million down from $742 million at the end of 2011 as we repaid the remaining $86 million due on our 2012 notes in December.
As previously announced we leveraged the favorable high yield market in the fourth quarter opportunistically strengthening our capital structure.
We repurchased $200 million of our seven and three-eighths [ph] 2015 notes at a premium in 2020.
Cash provided by operating activities for the year was $244 million a $9 million from 2011.
Compared to last year stronger operating performance and the discontinuation of our defined contribution pension plan were partially offset by higher income tax payments a planned contribution to our VEBA Trust for future medical cost in the first quarter and higher contract acquisition payments.
Capital expenditures for the year were $35 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $66 million.
Looking ahead to 2013 we expect consolidated revenue on a full year basis to range from 1.535 billion to $1.575 billion.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $3.60 to $3.80.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full year outlook including small businesses services revenue is expected to increase in the high single digits range as declines in the core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments price increases our distributor dealer and major accounts channel and double digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings.
We expect financial services revenue to decline in the mid-single digits range driven by recurring check order declines of approximately 5% to 6% and some pricing pressure which we expect will be partially offset by continued growth from non-check revenue streams and price increases.
Direct checks revenue decline in the mid to high single digits driven by check volume reductions a continued sluggish economy additional cost and expense reductions increases in material and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced internet capabilities and an effective income tax rate of approximately 34%.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging between $240 million and $255 million in 2013 reflecting stronger earnings in the mid to upper end of our outlook and lower VEBA payments for future medical cost offset by higher tax and incentive compensation payments.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $15 million.
2013 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $35 million roughly the same as 2012.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $62 million which includes $15 million of acquisition related amortization.
For the first quarter of 2013 we expect revenue to range from $377 million to $385 million.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $0.85 to $0.90.
As we indicated on our third quarter earnings call there are actually two less business days in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 2012 which will represent approximately $12 million left in revenue year over year resulting in a lower profit.
Brand spend is also expected to be higher in the first quarter of 2013.
These two factors are driving a potential decline to slightly up range in earnings per share in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the first quarter of 2012.
Only one of the business days comes back in the year in the third quarter leaving us with one less business day for the full year in 2013 versus 2012.
Also as a reminder historically direct check has their strongest revenue quarter of the year in the first quarter.
Checking to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balance of priorities [ph] of investing organically after small-to-medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level and repurchase shares to offset dilutions.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these of these priorities we plan to accumulate cash in advance of our 2014 senior [inaudible] maturity.
We may also from time to time consider retiring outstanding debt through open market repurchases privately negotiated transactions or other mediums.
We believe our strong cash flow strength in balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiative.
Overall we had another solid year and we delivered on our commitment to reduce our cost and expenses in 2012 by approximately $50 million bringing our total reductions since mid-2006 to $435 million.
Strong performance in the fourth quarter helped to offset the impact of restructuring charges.
Looking ahead to 2013 we will continue our focus on the revenue growth base of our transformation but will not lessen our focus on cost and expense reductions.
We expect to drive an incremental $50 million of cost reductions net of investments in 2013.
Approximately 50% of the $50 million in expected reductions will come from sales and marketing another 35% from fulfillment and the remaining 15% coming from our shared services organizations.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2013 will be on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation and leveraging our order streaming and marketing efficiencies.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms drive delivery technology and process efficiencies reduce spoilage further enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for our shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce cost in IT and other areas as more opportunities exist to improve efficiencies.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with the perspective on what we accomplished overall in 2012 then provide expectations for 2013 for our key revenue growth area marketing solutions and other services and finally some thoughts on our brand campaign.
I will then highlight progress in each of our three segments including a perspective on what we plan to accomplish in 2013.
Deluxe grew revenue in 2012 for the third consecutive year for the first time since 1996.
And the 7% revenue growth rate was the highest since 1994 excluding the next [ph] acquisition.
We stabilized our core check and product businesses and improve our mix of faster growing marketing solutions and other services revenues to 19% of total revenue.
We acquired OrangeSoda to expand opportunities in higher growth marketing solutions and other services.
We also took steps to accelerate our brand transformation with our new Work Happy campaign.
We want small business owners to see Deluxe as a genuine passionate partner who gives them everything they need so they can focus on their pursuit of doing what they love and work happy.
In addition to our strong print leadership we continue to invest in our employment brand in digital technology in extending sales channel reach and in our communities.
Our efforts earned us awards and recognition including the Candidate Experience Award Best in Show at Innovate [ph] corporation of the year from the Metropolitan Economic Development Association and the Jefferson Award for community service.
In shared services infrastructure we reduced cost and improve the effectiveness of the information technology finance human resources real estate and legal functions.
Our intense focus on cost reductions has now delivered enterprise-wide savings of $435 million since mid-2006.
We exited the year with more robust and innovative products and services solidified process a better infrastructure and improved financial results.
Our operating cash flow grew for the fourth straight year allowing us to maintain our dividend and pay down debt while paying cash for an acquisition.
In addition we strengthen our capital structure in November with a debt refinancing and an attractive rate and extended term.
We recognize that there’s still a tremendous amount of work to do but we made great strides in 2012.
As we enter 2013 our primary focus continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues.
We have created more differentiated technology led check offers through investments in automated flat packaging digital printing and online portals and dashboards.
We also have significant growth opportunities and marketing solutions and other services.
We will continue to assess potential small to medium size acquisitions that complement our large customer bases with a focus on marketing solutions and other services.
We have strengthened our channels in small business to include financial institutions online retail wholesale distributors dealers and major accounts.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of everything a small business needs to market and operate their business and helping small to mid size financial institutions with customer acquisition risk management and other value add services offers.
Here is an update on our four subcategories framework from marketing solutions and other services.
We ended 2012 right in line with our expected $285 million in revenue with mix in the four sub categories basically in line with our expectations.
First small business marketing finished 2012 at 41% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and is expected to represent approximately 40% in 2013 with expected growth in the mid teens this year.
We exited December with our highest monthly growth rate in the web to print space at 21% since completing the PS print acquisition.
Key growth initiatives include scaling web to print by cross selling to our customer base and continuing to add new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
The second category web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO email marketing social and payroll services finished 2012 at 30% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and is expected to represent approximately 34% in 2013 with expected organic growth rates in the high teens.
Key growth initiatives and performance drivers include adding wholesale web telco and SEM SEO major accounts of which we have already secured about $15 million from deals already closed which will roll out throughout 2013.
Cross selling to our retail base through bundled presence packages adding more new customers resellers and partners reducing web design and SEM campaign cycle times and churn rates and adding payroll services customers including new features such as time and attendance applications.
This category is also our focus area for talk in acquisitions.
We closed 2012 with approximately 550 000 webhosting customers and we expect to close 2013 with nearly 750 000 webhosting customers or up 36% from 2012.
The third category fraud security and risk management services finished 2012 at 24% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and are expected to represent approximately 21% in 2013 with expected growth rate in the mid single digits.
Key growth initiatives include scaling our program services including adding new features for both national and community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
It also includes adding bankers dashboard customers as well as adding features for our installed bankers dashboard base.
Finally other financial institution services finished 2012 at 5% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and are expected to represent approximately 5% again in 2013 with expected growth rates in the high single digits.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new cornerstone switch agent and get the reward card financial institutions.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $330 million to $340 million in 2012 or 2013 up from $285 million in 2012 with organic growth in the mid teens.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 22% of revenue including a yearend exit run rate well above 25% of revenue towards our 25% mix goal and up from 19% in 2012 and 16 and 13% [ph].
We spent considerable energy in 2012 examining our marketing strategies whole focus groups looked at large research studies and shadowed small business owners while they work.
Through this process we uncovered insights to help us connect with our customers on a more emotional level.
We learned that the primary motivator of today’s small business owner has shifted from business growth to personal satisfaction.
<br>This insight formed the basis of our new brand campaign.
The redesign on deluxe.com and training for our dedicated call center sales representatives.
And it will be at the core of our small business marketing efforts and products and services offers going forward.
Deluxe wants small businesses to pursue their individual unique passions by not letting their dream jobs become work.
So we can provide them everything from websites to printing to marketing.
Our expertise is at the small business owners’ command.
We are at their service and our objective is to simply allow them to work happy.
We kicked off our new advertising campaign in late 2012 with three television commercials.
The campaign continues throughout January on television and also in print ads digital online and radio.
All these media will continue at various times throughout 2013 and three primary burst weighted more heavily towards the first half of the year.
We believe the outcome of our brand transformation is messaging that is compelling emotional edgy memorable and differentiated but simple.
A real rallying cry for our brand and our people.
For competitive reasons we will not disclose investment levels other than to indicate that it is a multi-million dollar campaign and all plan spending is included in our current outlook ranges.
We have established return on investment criteria based on the number of impressions expected sight visits online leads and calls as well as we expect to see an increase in brand search traffic social media mentions and positive social sentiment and more YouTube video views.
We will use results against these metrics to guide us as we progress on this new brand journey.
It is important to remember that this campaign is primarily focused on improving brand awareness and not a targeted direct response campaign.
So far I can share with you that we are very pleased with our results to date.
At the launch of the campaign we were seeing click-through rates 50% above those of prior campaigns and significantly above benchmarks.
Traffic to Deluxe.com is up significantly in double-digit percentages.
YouTube views of the three commercials are now over 300 000 and we are closing new business both online and in our dedicated call centers.
Now shifting to our segments.
In small business services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small business remains sluggish.
We have a strong performance however as revenue grew 11% 3% of which came from the OrangeSoda acquisition.
Checks and Forms perform well and seasonal holiday cards perform slightly better than our expectations.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
New customers from our Financial Institution Deluxe Business Advantage Referral Program and through our direct response campaigns remain strong.
Response rates increase from better balance and in rich content in the online and print-base spend.
Average order value and conversion rates remain strong.
Our online safeguard distributor and dealer channels and Canada grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in web SCM SCO and payroll services.
In the quarter we won contracts with additional US South American and European telcos all of which we expect will migrate and organically build out small business customer web services in 2013.
Again we ended the year with approximately 550 000 web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices after barely rising in October declined to one of the lowest levels ever in November and edged up only slightly in December clearly in recessionary territory.
November and December 2012 readings marked the lowest levels since March of 2010.
70% of small business owners characterize the current period as a bad time to expand.
45% of small business owners believe conditions will be worse six months from the end of 2012 with only 10% believing they will be better.
They continue to spend cautiously more in maintenance mode scrutinize purchases and experience tight cash flow.
Small businesses expectations for real sales gains for 2013 lifted only slightly as we ended the year.
In summary current optimism indices have been turning downward and at roughly three-year lows.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owner’s number one pain point.
And our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensible partner for growth.
Our focus for 2013 is on accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers.
Profitably integrating and extending our marketing solutions and other services portfolio effectively acquiring and retaining customers across multiple channels.
Building a more effective retail services sales model scaling major accounts and strategic channel partner relationships and improving our customer experience.
In financial services we saw the rate of decline of checks perform slightly above the higher end of our forecasted decline range of around 5% to 6%.
However including our estimated negative impact from Hurricane Sandy we saw decline rates closer to 5% and December was less than 5%.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current quarter in excess of 90%.
We also simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
Looking ahead to 2013 we expect check units to be in a decline range of around 5% to 6%.
Retention rates to be in excess of 90% on deal spending this year.
We have already extended all our large contracts to the end of 2013.
We have fewer community bank contract dollars up for renewal on 2013 compared to 2012.
And we also continue to work a number of competitive RFPs and expect a decision on one this quarter.
We also implemented a price increase at the start of this year.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
Revenue grew over last year at the highest organic rate of any quarter in 2012 in these non-check services which include customer acquisition risk management and other profitability offers.
In customer acquisition and specifically our cornerstone direct marketing analytics offer we saw a continued growth in financial institutions.
We have seen strong demand for our switch agent offering since formally unveiling our bill pay capability at Synovate late last year.
We are engaged with our customers and prospects to continue advancing our offering going forward in a way that is responsive to market needs.
We believe it will be an important tool for banks beyond acquisition to anchoring profitable clients.
Banker’s Dashboard also continued to perform well in the fourth quarter.
As you can see although not as fast as we had hoped in some areas momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these marketing solutions and other services in 2013.
In Direct Checks revenue was in line with our expectations driven by strong revenue per order and strong custom-direct accessories revenue.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers.
Although we have made significant progress with the custom-direct integration we are still working on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best in class direct to consumer check experience.
In fourth quarter we completed the integration of our Joppa custom-direct fulfillment into Deluxe fulfillment site.
We continue to see a ramp and revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and upsell capabilities as well as synergistic costs and expense reductions.
For 2013 we expect Direct Checks revenue to decline in the mid- to- high single digits driven by continued declines in consumer usage and a weak economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and drive our operating margins in the 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit 2012 on the heels of an outstanding quarterly performance in continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe.
But we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2013.
We believe we are well positioned entering 2013 for our fourth consecutive year of revenue growth.
Despite the sluggish economy our financial discipline has enabled us to invest in people technology products services and our brand in order to position ourselves for sustainable revenue growth while continuing to improve profitability and operating cash flow.
Our technologies and channels are stronger.
Our digital technology services offer is more mature.
Our infrastructure better and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We know it is critical for us to be able to grow revenue again in 2013 and improve the mix of our marketing solutions and other services revenues and we are well positioned to make this happen.
We have developed a strong platform for long term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Before I open the call up for questions I would like to take this opportunity to thank all Deluxe employees for their hardwork dedication and simply outstanding performance of 2012.
Thank you Deluxers.
Let’s get off to a great start in 2013.
And now Sheyla we’ll open the line for questions for Terry Jeff and I.
Yes.
Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to ask a question please press star followed by one on your telephone key pad.
If your question has been answered or you wish to withdraw your question please press star followed by two.
Press star one to begin and please stand by for your first question.
And you first question comes from the line of Charlie Strauzer with CJS please proceed sir.
Hi good morning.
Hi Charlie.
Thank you first of all for that thorough detail on the quarter and the kind of the outlook I just wanted to touch base on a couple of things here if I could.
When you look at some of the new initiatives on the marketing side that you’ve launched and you said you’ve gotten some very significant increases in kind of page views and things like that what are some of the things that you’ve heard more anecdotally as to what what are the things that are resonating more with some of these potential customers? As far as the new campaign Charlie? Correct.
Yes.
Yes.
Clearly what we’re seeing is people that I would argue people that didn’t know Deluxe did as much as we do we’re seeing.
We also are seeing people that are coming to the story and might have heard of us before but didn’t have the reach which is great we believe for cross selling we’re seeing that.
Clearly what we’re also seeing is more in the newer spaces and services specifically I would say web services would probably be at the top of the list along with the search engine marketing and search engine optimization spaces.
But we’re actually favorably surprised so far with just the number and amount in interest in the company and it’s coming through again all our channels.
People are seeing the television ads they’re hearing us on the radio they’re seeing us on print they’re seeing us online and they’re coming to us through into the call centers into the online world we’ve even gotten comments through the banking channel we’ve gotten comments through our distributor our dealer and our major account channels as well.
What we want out of this is at least early on Charlie because obviously it’s early on is it’s starting to happen.
So Lee what’s the next step? You’re getting some of these interest coming in how do you then kind of capitalize more on that? Is it more kind of an outbound basis with your call centers of your partners? Kind of clarify a little bit more what’s the next step if you could.
Yes I mean we’re early.
We put money and initiatives in the past.
We’ve never done as far what I would call far reach in terms of the television world so to speak.
But as I mentioned in my prepared comments and I think it’s consistent with what I said in the third quarter call we’re going to stay at this right now.
It’s very early in the campaign we clearly believe it’s starting to work for us and starting to get us the brand recognition outside of being as we all know more of that check provider and now reaching more and more into the marketing solutions and other services space.
So we’re going to stay after this we’re committed to it we put in our guidance and we’re going to do the three burst [ph] that I talked about and you’ll see more of it in the first half of the year Charlie than the second half of the year but obviously if it continues to work we’ll consistently look at return on investment criteria and we’ll make decisions that are smart and we’ll keep the investment community informed as to how we see this playing out.
But so far again it’s just amazing to be out in the community we have some local good coverage here it’s just people commenting on it and just commenting very favorably.
And what I would say is interesting is that it’s kind of what I call emotionally compelling and different from some of the competitive edge that are out there and that was the intent when we launched this.
So that’s what I can comment on at this point.
Great thank you very much that’s very helpful.
You’re welcome.
And your next question comes from the line of Jamie Clement with Sidoti.
Please proceed.
Lee Terry Jeff good morning.
Hi Jamie.
Hi Jamie.
Hi Jamie.
Lee first a major question here.
You started 2012 as well as the previous couple of years looking for a 7% to 8% organic decline in check usage number is actually started off the year closer to 5% you adjusted your guidance to 5% to 6% through the year and now you’re still looking for 5% to 6% for the upcoming 12 months and I believe on the last conference call you said you all were still doing some internal work and then obviously a forward projection would be upcoming in this conference call which you gave.
What have you all learned this year to bring that assumption down from the 7% to 8% to that 5% to 6% range? Like do you think this is a long term sustainable range is it something maybe related to the housing recovery? Just a little bit more color on that switch because that 7% to 8% was something you were sticking two or three years.
Yes Jamie we’ve done a lot of work here and I would argue that we have to stay at this and stay paranoid with it every day and we do.
And what do I mean by that? We’re constantly watching the trends that are out there and for us it’s working with our financial institutions and seeing where they see trends and how they are working and we’re working with the consumer.
It also is looking at metrics around housing stock and electronification mobility.
I’m not going to give you specific formulas that we use other than we’ve gotten good at it because I know that my competitors are out listening to this call.
But I believe we are getting better and better at marker around these things.
But I will tell you Jamie we got to stay on top of this because those things can move and when they move we believe they can move those percentages or decline around.
But we wouldn’t have guided right now 5% to 6% declines for this year if we weren’t comfortable that the current markers that we see for that are in that range.
They are right now and because of that that’s where we believe we should guide.
And if they change up or down meaning if they get better than that and lower rate of decline or slip back we will again keep the investment community informed of that.
But right now we’re as strong as we ever have been at improving how we look at this.
But again I’m as paranoid as ever and I think I will stay that way.
Okay that’s very fair.
I don’t know Lee whether you want to take this or it was really during Terry’s prepared remarks.
I was a little bit confused about some of the commentary around the outlook with respect to price competition versus price increases.
I believe there were price increases mentioned in the small business services sector and then both price increases as well as price pressure referenced in financial services.
I could have that backwards.
If I’m wrong about that please correct me but where are you seeing the price improvements and then where are you seeing the price pressure? Jamie I’ll take that one.
You are absolutely right.
We do have price increases that we’ve actually already put into the market place in small business services.
And we also did put a price increase into our list price for financial services that also went in just early now in this first quarter of 2013.
And the pricing pressure that we also referenced related to financial services that really has to do with when we’re renewing contracts.
It’s really the discounts that we were having to absorb as we renew contracts and as we bring on new business that discount that provides kind of a counter pressure to those price increases that we did.
Okay to the extent that you continue to renew contracts ahead of time and is that still a strategy here? I mean are you still actively looking to renew these contracts before they gets or update [ph]? Yes absolutely as much as we can.
Okay okay.
So all right well thanks very much for the time I appreciate it.
Thanks Jamie.
Thanks Jamie.
Ladies and gentlemen (Operator Instructions).
And your next question comes from the line of Wayne Archambo of Monarch.
Please proceed sir.
Yes.
Wayne Archambo Monarch Partners.
Could you just give us some assessment of what the OrangeSoda acquisition has met your expectations plusses and minuses? Just give us some reading of what your experience has been there.
Yes.
We are really pleased so far.
We’ve owned them a little over half a year now.
We’ve actually given markers here in revenue the last two quarters.
I think both quarters are in the $8 million range.
It’s pretty much right where we expect it to be maybe a little bit better on the revenue side.
But culturally it’s everything we thought they were going to do for us.
They are teaching us how to reach customers and get customers found online at a better way.
So they are bringing us customers that we then can sell other products and services to.
The other nice thing about the deal when we mentioned it early on when acquired it is they also have some of the same partners in the relationships that we have.
And so we’ve been able to get stronger around those and more holistic with offering the products and services through those partners.
So I would just tell you that so far we are extremely pleased with the deal.
And do you find in the market place there are other OrangeSoda type transactions out there that are for sale.
Is that one-off? Is it an active M&amp;A market out there? I will stay consistent.
I’ve said this on many calls before.
I look with the team that I have and I have some outside help constantly at partnerships and potential inquisitive opportunities.
I mentioned in my prepared comments that we will continue to look at small to medium-sized opportunities for acquisition.
Yes primarily in the marketing solutions and other services space and more specifically in that categorization of web services.
So I think I would just choose right now to leave it there.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
And your next question comes from the line of Ben Glaze with Apollo.
Please proceed sir.
Hey guys.
Just a quick question kind of a follow-up to Jaime’s.
Do you always think about visibility into the business like giving full year guidance here? And you kind of mentioned that if you’re equation changes as the year goes on maybe you’ll adjust up or downward.
I’m just trying to think about how much confidence we should put behind that in kind of what the visibility you have into contractual revenues it might be? As far as the rate of decline on checks again Ben? Yes.
So I guess like the key drivers or your assumption the rate of decline on checks.
I’m curious like I guess is there a way to have much visibility into the business because – Yes.
I think that the way to think about it Ben is we made some comments in the prepared comments that between locking in all the big deals for the year.
So that should give you the investor some comfort that we have that run rate established for the year.
We have to lock in our community bank contracts that come up every year.
If we do at the rates above the 90% that I talked about and that it down to what the consumer is going to write checks for.
But if you add up all those pieces I think the positive news is we’re trying to take the variables that we can control off the table as best as we can.
I think we’ve done.
And then we’re at the mercy of what consumers are writing checks for and obviously they write more checks when the economy is better and then down to housing stock electronification mobility and switches and payment methods and all that.
But again the best I can do for you is I think we were thorough on our assessment of this.
We wouldn’t have guided to this if we didn’t expect it to be in this range right now.
Again Ben I think that’s the best we could do at this point.
That’s very helpful.
The other question I have is just if you could help us thinking more about – and I guess we’re kind of thinking about what you do want to disclose.
But some of the growth rates are so impressive in the marketing and other services segments and sub-segments just to help us think about like the incremental margins on revenue relative to kind of the traditional checks business which appears to be very incremental margins.
Yes.
Let me start with this.
We’re consistently getting pushed for how do I get more and more comfort to the investor for the growth and how can hit mid teams organic growth and revenue here.
And we gave you some markers today that I think are important.
We communicated that we had the best month that we’ve ever seen since we acquire PSPrint in December.
We gave you markers around the number of web hosting customers that we ended the year which was bigger and was our biggest lift in any quarter last year the fourth quarter.
We also gave you a marker for the end of this year.
And we gave you another marker that said – and I’ve been mentioning on calls.
We gave you a number actually today of $15 million of business that we’ve already secured that will roll out.
And the timing of that is dependent on when telcos and the media and other major accounts and between the web and search engine marketing optimization world is roll out.
But those are firm deals and depending on how well we time those of working with them all those give us confidence that we can get to that the growth rates that we put out there.
And again we wouldn’t have done it if we didn’t have confidence right now that that’s the best way to guide the investor where we are.
Got it.
Thanks.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Karos with Whitebox.
Please proceed sir.
A quick question for you.
Would you mind with the marketing solutions area just giving us kind of the landscape of the competition? What are the type of companies you compete against and how do you see a Deluxe fitting into that landscape? It depends on the category.
And you have to decompose each one of them.
So we have various players in the financial services space that we compete.
They’re all smaller.
I’m not going to mention all those on the call here give that out but there are – No not the names just general characterizations would be great.
Yes.
There are smaller players that are in the profitability models and metrics.
There are smaller players that are in direct marketing analytic spaces.
There are lots of players in the fraud and security and risk management areas as well that we compete with.
But there’s no one big player that we compete against there.
In the web services space I’ll mention a few companies that are out there.
Obviously Web.com GoDaddy are players in the space.
There are the constant contacts and the email marketing space Vistaprint and so on and so forth.
But there is no one big player that dominates the market in this space.
And then obviously there’s a lot of players in the marketing space.
The smaller companies that do everything from promo and apparel to larger web-to-print companies.
Again Vistaprint probably the most recognized one out there but nobody dominates.
There is a lot of market opportunity and there’s a lot of fragmentation in the market and that’s actually something that we believe plays to our favor.
And if we pull and keep improving getting the brand more recognized for Deluxe we think that bodes well for us and give us an opportunity to work with the customers we have and then get new customers.
So as usual there’s a lot of fragmentation that the risk is obviously that people get really aggressive on pricing.
Do you view the fragmentation no more as a positive in the market share gain sense of it or how do those offset each other? Yes.
I view is real positive.
No one dominates and controls price and I just view it as a real opportunity for us.
Great.
Thanks.
Welcome.
And there are no further questions at this time.
This concludes you Q&amp;A portion.
I would like now to turn the call back over to Lee Schram.
Please proceed sir.
Yes.
I just want to again thank everybody for participating and for the questions today.
And again hats off.
I know there are a lot of Deluxers out there listening in on the call as well.
And again I just want to commend you for a great year and again we did it.
We’ve got to get out and earn our keep and do it again in 2013.
And again as I mentioned earlier it’s important we get off to great start.
So we’re going to get back to work roll up our sleeves and get going and we look forward to providing another positive progress report on our next call and I’ll turn it over to Jeff.
Thank you Lee.
This is reminder that a replay of this call will be available until February 7th by dialing 888-286-8010.
When instructed provide the access code 93002809.
The accompanying slides are archived on our investor relations website at deluxe.com/investor.
Again thank you for joining us.
Have a great afternoon.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does concludes today’s presentation you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Bye.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2013 Deluxe Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Allison and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jeff Johnson Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Allison.
Welcome to Deluxe Corporation's 2013 First Quarter Earnings Call.
I am Jeff Johnson Deluxe's Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer.
Joining me on the call today are Lee Schram Deluxe's Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson Deluxe's Chief Financial Officer.
Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts after the prepared comments.
At that time the operator will instruct you how to ask a question.
In accordance with Regulation FD this call is open to all interested parties.
A replay of the call will be available via telephone and Deluxe's website.
I will provide instructions for accessing the replay at the conclusion of our teleconference.
Before I begin let me make this brief cautionary statement.
Comments made today regarding financial estimates and projections and any other statements addressing management's intentions and expectations regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the news release that we issued this morning and in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor and was furnished to the SEC on a Form 8-K filed this morning.
In particular any non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Jeff and good morning everyone.
Deluxe delivered an outstanding quarter to start the year.
We reported revenue and adjusted earnings per share above the high end of our outlook.
Revenue grew almost 3% over the prior year quarter even though there were 2 less business days compared to last year.
Small Business Services' revenue grew 8%.
Checks and forms both performed better than our expectations and marketing solutions and other services revenues grew 22% over the prior year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 3% over a very strong prior year.
We generated solid operating cash flow and we were not drawn on our credit facility during the quarter increasing our balance sheet cash position $25 million from last December.
And we repurchased $13 million in shares.
We continued our new brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and delivered on our cost reduction commitment in the quarter.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps.
But first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of $0.89 which included losses of $0.02 per share from restructuring charges.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $0.91 exceeded the upper end of our outlook and was 3.4% higher than the $0.88 reported in the first quarter of 2012.
The restructuring charges are primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $388 million and grew 2.5% over last year despite 2 less business days compared to the first quarter of 2012.
All 3 of our business segments performed well.
Small Business Services' revenue of $248 million grew 8.1% versus last year on a reported basis but is double digits when considering 2 less business days.
While we continue to operate in a weak economic environment we delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services checks and in our online Safeguard distributor major accounts and dealer channels.
Financial Services' revenue of $87 million declined 3.8% versus last year but was close to flat when considering 2 less business days.
The impact of lower check orders offset the benefits of price increases and higher marketing solutions and other services revenue.
Direct Checks' revenue totaled $52 million which was down 9.9% on a year-over-year basis.
This segment was also negatively impacted by 2 less business days.
Gross margin for the quarter was 65.6% of revenue which was down 0.7 points from 2012.
Unfavorable product mix and increased material and delivery rates were only partially offset by benefits from price increases and improvements in manufacturing productivity and delivery initiatives.
SG&amp;A expense increased $3.3 million in the quarter and was 45.2% of revenue compared to 45.5% of revenue in the same period last year.
Increased SG&amp;A in Small Business Services associated with commissions on increased revenue higher brand awareness spending and the OrangeSoda acquisition was partially offset by benefits from our continuing cost reduction initiatives in all 3 segments.
Excluding restructuring charges adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 20.4% which was down 0.7 points from the 21.1% generated in 2012 but slightly better than our expectations.
All 3 segments delivered strong operating margins compared to expectations.
Excluding restructuring charges Small Business Services' operating margin of 15.8% was down 1.6 percentage points over last year due to higher SG&amp;A driven primarily by higher brand awareness spending.
Financial Services' operating margin of 26.8% was up 2.6 points from 2012 due to a price increase better product and services mix and cost reductions.
Direct Checks' operating margin of 31.5% increased 0.2 points from 2012 as we continue to realize plant synergies from integrating Custom Direct.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements.
We increased our cash and cash equivalents balance by $25 million despite repurchasing $13 million of our common stock to offset expected dilution from employee plans.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $651 million basically flat from the end of 2012.
Cash provided by operating activities was $51.5 million about the same as 2012.
Compared to last year lower contribution to fund future medical benefits as well as lower contract acquisition and income tax payments were basically offset by higher variable compensation earned in 2012 but paid out in the first quarter of 2013.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $8 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $16 million.
We are tightening our consolidated revenue to the upper end on a full year basis to a range of $1.545 billion to $1.575 billion.
Our strong performance in the first quarter is expected to be mitigated by an unfavorable impact from recent trends in the Canadian exchange rate.
Diluted earnings per share has been tightened to the upper end as well to an expected range of $3.65 to $3.80.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full year outlook including: Small Business Services' revenue is expected to increase in the high-single-digits range as volume declines in core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments price increases our distributor dealer and major accounts channels and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings; we expect Financial Services' revenue to decline in the mid-single-digits range driven by recurring check order declines of approximately 5% to 6% and some pricing pressure which we expect will be partially offset by continued growth from non-check revenue streams and price increases; Direct Checks' revenue decline in the mid- to high-single digits driven by check volume reductions a continued sluggish economy additional cost and expense reductions increases in material and delivery rate continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities lower interest expense and an effective tax rate of approximately 34%.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging between $240 million and $255 million in 2013 reflecting stronger earnings in the mid to upper end of our outlook and lower Viva payments for future medical costs offset by higher income tax and incentive compensation payments.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $15 million.
2013 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $35 million roughly the same as 2012.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $62 million including $15 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the second quarter of 2013 we expect revenue to range from $375 million to $382 million.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $0.85 to $0.90.
In comparison to the first quarter revenue and adjusted EPS are expected to be slightly lower in the second quarter primarily due to lower financial services and Direct Checks revenue and the resulting operating income.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small- to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level and repurchase shares to offset dilution.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities we plan to accumulate cash in advance of our 2014 senior note maturity.
We may also from time to time consider retiring outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or by other means.
We believe our strong cash flow strengthened balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had a solid start to 2013 in the first quarter as we delivered on our expected cost and expense reductions towards our $50 million commitment net of investments in 2013.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2013 is on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation and leveraging order streaming and marketing efficiencies.
We also expect to continue improving the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we are continuing to focus on our lean direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidating our manufacturing technology platforms driving delivery technology and process efficiencies reducing spoilage further enhancing our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continuing with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for Shared Services' infrastructure we expect to continue reducing cost in IT and other areas as more opportunities exist to improve efficiencies.
Now I'll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on our overall focus and then highlight progress in each of our 3 segments.
I will also include throughout a perspective on what we hope to accomplish during the balance of 2013.
Our primary focus in 2013 continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues.
We have created more differentiated technology-led check offers through investments in automated flat packaging digital printing and online portals and dashboards.
We also have significant growth opportunities in marketing solutions and other services.
We will continue to assess potential small- to medium-sized acquisitions that complement our large customer bases with a focus on marketing solutions and other services.
We have strengthened our channels in small business to include financial institutions online retail wholesale distributors dealers and major accounts.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of a growing suite of products and services of small business needs to market and operate their business and helping small to mid-sized financial institutions with customer acquisition risk management and other value-add services offers.
Here is an update on our 4 subcategories framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We ended the first quarter right in line with our expectations in revenue with mix in the 4 subcategories basically in line with our expectations.
First small business marketing is expected to represent approximately 42% of revenue in 2013 with expected growth in the upper-teens this year.
We saw strong double-digit growth in the first quarter in the web-to-print space as we cross-sold to our customer base and added new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
The second category web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO email marketing social and payroll services is expected to represent approximately 32% of revenue in 2013 with expected organic growth rates in the mid-teens.
We saw a little slower rollout in both wholesale web telco and SEM SEO major accounts in the first quarter than expected from the $15 million of deals closed in 2012 which we expect will roll out throughout 2013.
We saw growth from the prior year in cross-selling bundled presence packages to our retail base and added more new customers resellers and partners.
We continue to reduce web design and SEM campaign cycle times and churn rates remain low.
We added payroll services customers and many customers added new features such as time and attendance applications.
This category also is our focus area for tuck-in acquisitions.
We closed the first quarter with approximately 565 000 web hosting customers and we expect to close 2013 with nearly 750 000 web hosting customers or up 36% from 2012 as we expect migrations to ramp through the balance of the year.
The third category fraud security and risk management services are expected to represent approximately 22% of revenue in 2013 with expected growth rates in the high-single digits.
We had a stronger-than-expected first quarter as we added program services for new community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
We added Banker's Dashboard customers as well.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 4% of revenue in 2013 with expected growth rates in the high-single digits.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new Cornerstone and SwitchAgent clients.
We continue to expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $330 million to $340 million in 2013 up from $285 million in 2012 with organic growth in the mid-teens.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 22% of revenue including a year-end exit run rate above 25% of revenue towards our 25% mix goal and up from 19% in 2012 and 16% and 13% the previous 2 years.
Our new brand awareness campaign was in market throughout the first quarter.
We continue to run the 3 television commercials we started in late 2012 during the first 5 weeks of 2013 then paused for about 6 weeks as planned and then ran them again for 4 weeks through mid-April.
We also continued print and digital online ads during these same timeframes.
This media will continue at various times through the balance of 2013 and focused first.
For competitive reasons we will not disclose investment levels other than to indicate that it is a multimillion-dollar campaign and all planned spending is included in our current outlook ranges.
We have established return-on-investment criteria based on the number of impressions expected site visits and online leads.
We will use results against these metrics to guide us as we progress on this new brand journey.
It is important to remember that this campaign is primarily focused on improving brand awareness and not a targeted direct response campaign.
Here are some metrics we are seeing so far in the campaigns.
Online click-through rates are over 50% above representative benchmarks.
Traffic to deluxe.com is up over 20%.
YouTube views of the 3 commercials are now approximately 900 000 and we are closing new business both online and in our dedicated call centers.
The calls we are receiving are some of our most relevant and best converting lead sources.
Now shifting to our segments.
In Small Business Services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remain sluggish.
We had strong performance as revenue grew 8% even with 2 less business days in the quarter.
Checks and forms performed above our expectations.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
New customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage referral program and through our direct response campaigns remain strong.
Response rates average order value and conversion rates improved.
Our online Safeguard distributor and dealer channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in web SEM and payroll services.
Again we ended the quarter with approximately 565 000 web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices increased slightly in January ramped in February but plunged in March and remained in recessionary territory with no indication of a surge in business confidence.
Current levels are among the lowest levels in nearly 40 years.
77% of business owners expect business conditions over the next 6 months to be the same as they are now or worse.
More owners are planning to reduce employment than hire in the coming months and more plan to reduce inventories than plan to order new stocks.
They continue to spend cautiously more in maintenance mode scrutinize purchases and experience tight cash flow.
In summary current optimism indices have been trending downward over the past year and remain in recessionary levels.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owner's #1 pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for 2013 is on: accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers profitably integrating and extending our marketing solutions and other services portfolio effectively acquiring and retaining customers across multiple channels building a more effective retail services sales model scaling major accounts and strategic channel partner relationships and improving our customer experience.
In Financial Services in the first quarter we saw a secular check decline rate of about 4% which was better than our outlook of 5% to 6% driven by strength in both the national and community segments.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remained strong on deals pending in the current quarter well in excess of 90%.
We are pleased to report that we were informed that we won a new national competitive RFP that we expect to migrate to Deluxe in the third quarter this year.
This new business is expected to help offset the expected negative impact from foreign exchange in Small Business Services.
We are also beginning to work several more competitive opportunities.
We simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
Even though the first quarter secular decline rate was about 4% we are prudently planning for check units to remain within a declined range of around 5% to 6% in 2013 for the balance of the year.
We also expect retention rates in excess of 90% on deals pending this year.
And with approximately 40% of our 2013 community bank contract renewals already completed by the end of the first quarter we are well ahead of the linear pace for the year.
As a reminder we also implemented a price increase at the start of the year.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
Revenue grew over last year in these non-check services which include customer acquisition risk management and other profitability offers.
In customer acquisition and specifically our Cornerstone direct marketing analytics offer we saw continued growth in new financial institutions.
We started an all-branch rollout with a large financial institution for our SwitchAgent offering and will begin in the second quarter several additional nice-sized branch rollouts with other large financial institutions.
We continue to believe it will be an important tool for banks beyond acquisition to anchoring profitable clients.
Financial institutions that use SwitchAgent are realizing a more profitable new account base due in part to the role of SwitchAgent in activating key payment services.
Banker's Dashboard also continued to perform well in the first quarter.
As you can see although not as fast as we had hoped in some areas momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these marketing solutions and other services in 2013.
In Direct Checks revenue was basically in line with our expectations driven by strong revenue per order and strong Custom Direct accessories revenue.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers.
Although we have made significant progress with the Custom Direct integration we are still working a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and upsell capabilities as well as synergistic costs and expense reduction.
For 2013 we expect Direct Checks' revenue to decline in the mid- to high-single digits driven by continued declines in consumer usage in a sluggish economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and hold our operating margins in the 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit the first quarter on the heels of a strong quarterly performance in a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe.
But we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2013.
Our strong first quarter positions us well to grow revenue in 2013 for the fourth consecutive year.
We are conservatively not expecting the economic climate to improve throughout the balance of the year until we get better clarity as the year unfolds more.
If the economy improves we should have upside in revenue.
At the same time we will not take our eyes off the cost reductions and process improvements and we expect to generate strong cash flows and provide a very attractive dividend.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
And now Allison we'll let you open the lines up and Terry Jeff and I will take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Charles Strauzer of CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Two quick questions on -- thanks for all the transparency by the way on the various pieces there.
But if you look at the organic growth of the quarter -- I know you gave out some of the segment information on a kind of apples-to-apples normalizing up the different days.
But what was the overall organic growth if you do the same? I don't know that we -- I don't know that I know that Terry.
Do you have that number? The organic growth? The only piece that's not organic this quarter is a little bit from the OrangeSoda acquisition from last year.
It's not significant at all.
Most of the growth is all organic.
In the Small Business Services segment we had growth of 8.1%.
It's still north of 5% for that segment if you were to just look at the organic piece.
And Charlie another marker out there for you I think the number that we calculated with 2 -- with the -- if the 2 days were comparable was a 5.6% growth for the quarter.
So we would have been slightly under that on an organic basis but not a lot.
It would have been very strong on an apples-to-apples compare.
Inc.</strong> So still very good in the -- nevertheless? Very good.
We're very pleased.
Inc.</strong> And then on the new contract that you won I know you can't give out too many details obviously yet.
But could you maybe rank it in terms of the type of client it is versus maybe some of your other clients in terms of -- was it medium large? Or is it kind of the upper end of your contract range? Or can you give a little bit more color there? Again we're really excited about it.
Hopefully at some point here we'll be able to release the logo.
It's a well-known logo.
And I would say it's a -- again it's a nice-sized national opportunity for us.
So we're not going to obviously get a whole year's worth of revenue from it.
It will -- right now the timing as I said in my comments Charlie is in the third quarter.
But we are really excited about it.
I think when we get the logo out there I think it'll put some excitement on our company and I think it'll put some excitement out on the street.
Yes.
The other thing too Charlie is when we do start producing checks for them that will benefit both our Financial Services segment as well as the Small Business Services because they will be going after the DBA Deluxe Business Advantage program as well.
So it'll actually benefit both segments.
Yes that's a great additional comment.
Charlie one of the things we like about this financial institution is they have a very strong focus on small businesses.
And again as you know that's a key focus area for us as well.
So we just think it's a great match with us and this new institution.
We have no further questions at this time so I'd now like to turn the call back over to Lee Schram CEO.
Wow.
Only one question.
Okay.
So let me just close with thanking everybody for participating.
And as I normally say we're going to roll up our sleeves get back to work and we look forward to providing another positive progress report on our next call.
And I'll turn it over to Jeff for some closing housekeeping.
Thank you Lee.
This is a reminder that a replay of this call will be available until May 9 by dialing (888) 286-8010.
When instructed provide the access code 33314252.
The accompanying slides are archived in our Investor Relations website at www.deluxe.com/investor.
Again thank you for joining us.
Have a great afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2013 Deluxe Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Dave.
I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder the call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Terry Peterson Chief Financial Officer.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Dave.
Welcome to Deluxe Corporation's 2013 Second Quarter Earnings Call.
I'm Terry Peterson Deluxe's Chief Financial Officer.
Joining me on the call today is Lee Schram Deluxe's Chief Executive Officer.
Lee and I will take questions from analysts after the prepared comments.
At that time the operator will instruct you how to ask a question.
In accordance with the Regulation FD this call is open to all interested parties.
A replay of the call will be available via telephone and Deluxe's website.
I will provide instructions for accessing the replay at the conclusion of our teleconference.
Before I begin let me make this brief cautionary statement.
Comments made today regarding financial estimates and projections and any other statements addressing management's intentions and expectations regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the news release that we issued this morning and in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor and it was furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K filed this morning.
In particular any non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Terry and good morning everyone.
Deluxe delivered another very strong quarter and we are well positioned as we enter the second half of the year to grow revenue for the year in the mid-single digits despite a continued sluggish economic environment.
We reported revenue in the second quarter at the upper end of our outlook and earnings per share far exceeded the high end of our outlook.
Revenue grew about 3% over the prior year quarter.
Small Business Services revenue grew 8%.
Checks and forms performed well and marketing solutions and other services revenues grew 21% over the prior year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 13% over prior year.
We generated solid operating cash flow and we were not drawn on our credit facility during the quarter increasing our balance sheet cash position $7 million from last December.
We also repurchased $19 million in shares in the quarter and now $32 million year-to-date.
We acquired VerticalResponse in June to significantly improve our e-mail marketing capability and fill a gap we believe we had in our offerings in the promote and market services space for small businesses.
We also recently announced an exciting partnership with VerifyValid in the secure online payment market.
We continued our new brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and exceeded our cost reduction commitment in the quarter.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thanks Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of $0.94 which included losses of $0.02 per share from restructuring and transaction-related costs.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $0.96 far exceeded the upper end of our outlook and was 13% higher than the $0.85 reported in the second quarter of 2012.
The restructuring charges are primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations and the transaction costs are associated with the VerticalResponse acquisition.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $381 million and grew 2.8% over last year and almost 2% organically.
Small Business Services revenue of $252 million grew 8% versus last year.
While we continued to operate in a weak small business economic environment we delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services which included the impact of recent acquisitions accessories and checks revenue.
Our online Safeguard distributor major accounts and dealer channels each reported strong growth in the quarter.
Financial Services revenue of $83 million declined 3% versus last year.
The impact of lower check orders offset the benefits of price increases and higher marketing solutions and other services revenue.
Direct Checks revenue totaled $47 million which was down 11% on a year-over-year basis.
From a products and services revenue perspective checks were $217 million and represented 57% of total revenue.
Business products were $86 million or 22% of total revenue and marketing solutions and other services were $78 million which was 21% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 65% of revenue which was down 0.6 points from 2012.
Less favorable product mix and increased material and delivery rates were only partially offset by benefits from price increases and improvements in manufacturing productivity and delivery initiatives.
SG&amp;A expense decreased $3.3 million in the quarter and was 43.1% of revenue compared to 45.2% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost reduction initiatives in all 3 segments and lower performance-based compensation and medical expenses were partially offset by increased SG&amp;A in Small Business Services associated with acquisitions commissions on increased revenue and higher brand awareness spending.
Excluding restructuring charges and transaction-related costs adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 22.1% which was up 1.6 points from the 20.5% generated in 2012.
All 3 segments delivered strong operating margins compared to expectations aided by lower costs including performance-based compensation and medical costs.
Small Business Services operating margin of 18.8% was up 1.9 percentage points over last year due to cost reduction initiatives and lower costs.
Financial Services operating margin of 26.5% was up 2.8 points from 2012 due to higher revenue per order better product and services mix cost reductions and lower costs.
Direct Checks operating margin of 32% increased 1.2 points from 2012 as we continued to realize plant synergies from integrating Custom Direct.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements.
We increased our cash and cash equivalents balance by $7 million since year-end 2012 despite paying $27 million net for the VerticalResponse acquisition and repurchasing $32 million of our common stock.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $642 million down $10 million from the end of 2012.
Cash provided by operating activities for the first half of the year was $102.1 million exceeding our expectations and up about $2 million from 2012.
Compared to last year stronger operating performance lower contributions to fund future medical benefits and lower contract acquisition and income tax payments were partially offset by higher variable compensation earned in 2012 but paid out in the first quarter of 2013.
Capital expenditures for the first 6 months were about $17 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $32 million.
On June 10 we acquired VerticalResponse for a net $27 million using cash on hand.
During the remainder of 2013 the acquisition is expected to generate revenue of approximately $12 million and be approximately $0.06 dilutive to earnings per share after absorbing acquisition-related amortization expense.
Given our strong performance in the second quarter and the addition of VerticalResponse we are raising our consolidated revenue outlook for the year to a range of $1.57 billion to $1.59 billion.
We are also raising our adjusted diluted earnings per share to an expected range of $3.72 to $3.82 including an expected $0.06 dilution from the VerticalResponse acquisition and excluding $0.06 related to restructuring and transaction-related costs.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full year outlook including: Small Business Services revenue is expected to increase 9% to 11% as volume declines in core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments; price increases; growth in our distributor dealer and major accounts channels; and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings which now include the VerticalResponse acquisition.
We expect Financial Services revenue to decline 2% to 3% driven by recurring check order declines of approximately 5% to 6% and some pricing pressure which we expect will be partially offset by our new national account win continued growth from non-check revenue streams and price increases.
Direct Checks revenue decline of approximately 9% to 10% driven by check volume reductions; a continued sluggish economy; additional cost and expense reductions which we now estimate to be approximately $55 million; increases in material and delivery rates; continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness; marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities; lower interest expense; and an effective tax rate of approximately 34%.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows and are raising our expected range to between $250 million and $260 million in 2013 reflecting stronger earnings and lower VEBA payments for future medical costs offset by higher tax and incentive compensation payments.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $12 million.
2013 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $35 million roughly the same as 2012.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $65 million including $20 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the third quarter of 2013 we expect revenue to range from $392 million to $400 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $0.88 to $0.93.
In comparison to the second quarter revenue is expected to be higher in the third quarter primarily due to SBS revenue growth driven by marketing solutions and other services ramps in wholesale and retail services including VerticalResponse and our Safeguard distributors.
Adjusted EPS is expected to be lower driven by amortization expense from the VerticalResponse acquisition higher expected medical expenses a shift in product mix and lower cost reductions partially offset by SBS revenue growth.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level and repurchase shares to offset dilution.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities we plan to accumulate cash in advance of our 2014 senior note maturity.
We may also from time to time consider retiring outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our strong cash flow strengthened balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid quarter as we exceeded our expected cost and expense reductions towards our $50 million commitment net of investments for 2013.
Year-to-date we have already achieved approximately $29 million in reductions.
Given our year-to-date progress and expectations for the second half of the year we are raising our original $50 million reduction estimate to $55 million for the full year.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2013 is on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation and leveraging order streaming and marketing efficiencies.
We also expect to continue improving the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we are continuing to focus on our lean direct and indirect spend reductions; further consolidating our manufacturing technology platforms; driving delivery technology and process efficiencies; reducing spoilage; further enhancing our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements; and continuing with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for the Shared Services infrastructure we expect to continue reducing costs in IT and other areas as more opportunities exist to improve efficiencies.
I would like to close with an update on backfilling the Investor Relations and Treasurer position.
I'm extremely pleased with the response to the open position and we have assessed a strong slate of candidates.
I'm happy to announce that Ed Merritt will be joining Deluxe in this role in mid-August.
Ed's most recent IR and Treasurer experience has been with Digital River.
Now I'd like to turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on our key revenue growth area marketing solutions and other services including perspectives on our recent VerticalResponse acquisition and insights to date on our new brand awareness campaign.
I will then highlight progress in each of our 3 segments including a perspective on what we hope to accomplish during the balance of 2013.
Our primary focus in 2013 continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues.
The most significant revenue growth opportunities continue to be in marketing solutions and other services.
We will continue to assess potential small to medium-sized acquisitions that complement our large customer bases with a focus on marketing solutions and other services.
We are adding more products and services to our portfolio and believe our strong small business channel reach including financial institutions online retail wholesale feet-on-the-street distributors dealers partners and major accounts is a differentiator for us in the marketplace.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of a growing suite of products and services a small business needs to market and operate their business and helping small to midsize financial institutions with customer acquisition risk management and other value-add services offers.
Here is an update on our 4 subcategories framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We ended the second quarter right in line with our expectations for revenue and mix in the 4 subcategories basically in line with our expectations.
First small business marketing is expected to represent approximately 41% of revenue in 2013 with expected growth in the upper teens this year.
We saw strong double-digit growth in the second quarter in the Web-to-print space as we cross-sold to our customer base and added new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
The second category Web services which includes logo and Web design Web hosting SEM SEO e-mail marketing social and payroll services is expected to represent approximately 32% of revenue in 2013 with expected organic growth rates in the mid-teens although expected reported growth will be closer to 30% driven by the VerticalResponse acquisition.
We saw a little stronger rollout ramp in wholesale Web telco major accounts in the second quarter from the deals that we closed in 2012 which we expect will roll out throughout 2013.
We saw growth from the prior year in cross-selling bundled presence packages to our retail base and added more new customers resellers and partners.
We continue to reduce Web design and SEM campaign cycle times and churn rates remain low.
We added payroll services customers and many customers added new features such as time and attendance applications.
This category also is our focus area for tuck-in acquisitions with VerticalResponse being a good example.
VerticalResponse brings us a critical mass customer base on top of what we believe was a gap in our services portfolio in the promote and market space.
By expanding our portfolio with comprehensive promotion and marketing capabilities we can now more effectively achieve our strategic goal of helping small businesses acquire more customers.
VerticalResponse's primary offer is e-mail marketing and they also provide social media and content management tools that make it easier for small businesses to manage communications across multiple channels.
They have created a new integrated platform providing a do-it-yourself entry point for all products and services and allowing do-it-for-me agent provisioning and product extensions from e-mail to social to activation in an emerging fourth quarter expected release of a freemium model.
They have approximately 45 000 active paying customers both direct and indirect a low churn rate and a seasoned management team.
We expect their emerging freemium model will allow us to spur a mass trial and subsequent upsell and cross-sell penetration capability first into our retail but then into our wholesale customer base.
We closed the second quarter with over 625 000 Web hosting customers and we expect to close 2013 with nearly 750 000 Web hosting customers or up 36% from 2012 as we expect migrations to ramp through the balance of the year.
The third category fraud security and risk management services are expected to represent approximately 22% of revenue in 2013 with expected growth rates in the high single digits.
We had a strong second quarter as we added program services for new community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
We added Banker's Dashboard customers as well.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 5% of revenue in 2013 with very strong double-digit expected growth rates.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new Cornerstone and SwitchAgent clients.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $345 million to $355 million in 2013 up from $285 million in 2012 with organic growth in the mid-teens.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 22% of revenue including a year-end exit run rate above 25% of revenue towards our 25% mix goal and up from 19% in 2012 and 16% and 13% the previous 2 years.
Now shifting to our new brand awareness campaign.
We have completed 2 waves so far this year and have outperformed publishers' benchmarks for online ad click-through rates.
We have seen strong traffic to deluxe.com up over 20% and YouTube views of the commercials are now approaching 1 million.
Inbound call leads are converting to sales at a very strong rate of 20%.
Based on the positive results to date we plan to stay the course and continue our media efforts at various times through the balance of 2013 and focused first.
We will also continue to modify deluxe.com sell paths for websites printing and online marketing which we expect will continue to improve conversion rates.
For competitive reasons we will not disclose investment levels other than to indicate it is a multimillion-dollar campaign and all planned spending is included in our current outlook ranges.
We have established return on investment criteria based on the number of impressions expected site visits and online leads.
We will use these results against our metrics to guide us as we progress on this new brand journey.
It is important to remember this campaign is primarily focused on improving brand awareness and not a targeted direct-response campaign.
We completed a brand awareness customer study after running our second media wave in the second quarter and we saw awareness of the Deluxe brand jump considerably.
Just some examples.
Unaided awareness of companies that offer products and services to help manage and run small businesses increased significantly including doubling among Deluxe customers while familiarity with Deluxe website design and hosting services improved significantly from 47% to 62%.
Now shifting to our segments.
In Small Business Services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remained sluggish.
We had strong performance as revenue grew 8%.
Checks and forms performed well.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
New customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage Referral Program and through our direct response campaigns remained strong.
Response rates average order value and conversion rates improved.
Our online Safeguard distributor major accounts and dealer channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in Web SEM and payroll services.
Again we ended the quarter with over 625 000 Web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices increased in May -- in April and May with May's readings the second highest since the recession started and a 12-month high.
But as the quarter ended in June there was a bit of a drop-off in optimism.
Pessimism about the economy and the future moderated and sales expectations are trending better.
More owners are planning to hire in the coming months and more new firms are starting than failing right now.
They continue to spend cautiously more in maintenance mode scrutinize purchases and experience tight cash flow.
In summary current optimism indices have been sluggish but trending upward the first half of the year.
However they remain in recessionary levels.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owner's #1 pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for 2013 is on accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers; profitably integrating and extending our marketing solutions and other services portfolio including our recent VerticalResponse acquisition; effectively acquiring and retaining customers across multiple channels; building a more effective retail services sales model; scaling major accounts and strategic channel partner relationships; and improving our customer experience.
An example of an exciting strategic partner relationship is our recently announced partnership with VerifyValid.
VerifyValid is a leading provider of electronic payment solutions that transforms how businesses and banks use and accept checks.
Small business customers can securely make and receive check payments online utilizing a virtual lockbox and virtual remote deposit capture system.
We are introducing the electronic online payment solution to a portion of our customer base and have already seen strong initial acceptance and paying customers.
In Financial Services we have seen a year-to-date secular check decline rate of about 5.5% with the decline rate higher in the second quarter versus our outlook of 5% to 6% with rates consistent across both the national and community segments.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current quarter well in excess of 90%.
We are pleased to announce that we anticipate starting the migration soon with HSBC which is the new client that we referenced on our first quarter call.
In addition to gaining the consumer check business this is an exciting opportunity for our DBA program as well given HSBC's strong focus and commitment to small business customers.
We are also beginning to work several more competitive opportunities.
We simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
Although the decline rate was a little higher in the second quarter so far in July we have seen decline rates closer again to the 5% -- to 5%.
And we are planning for check units to remain within a decline range of around 5% to 6% for the balance of the year.
We also expect retention rates in excess of 90% on deals pending this year and with approximately 2/3 of our 2013 community bank contract renewals already completed by the end of the second quarter we are well ahead of the linear pace for the year.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
Revenue grew over last year in these non-check services which include customer acquisition risk management and other profitability offers.
In customer acquisition and specifically our Cornerstone direct marketing analytics offer we saw continued growth in new financial institutions and reported our highest quarterly revenue ever.
Our small -- our all-branch rollout with a large financial institution for our SwitchAgent offering continues to gain momentum and we implemented in the second quarter another nice-size branch rollout with a non-Deluxe check financial institution.
We continue to believe it will be an important tool for banks beyond acquisition to anchoring profitable clients.
Financial institutions that use SwitchAgent are realizing a more profitable new account base due in part to the role SwitchAgent -- due in part to the role of SwitchAgent in activating key payment services.
Banker's Dashboard also continued to perform well in the second quarter.
As you can see momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these marketing solutions and other services in 2013.
In Direct Checks revenue was slightly below our expectations driven by lower initial orders and reactivations.
We believe some of this is related to the timing of advertising placements.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers.
Although we have made significant progress with the Custom Direct integration we are still working on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
As an example we now have one integrated process producing all direct-to-consumer checks.
We continued to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and upsell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
For 2013 we expect Direct Checks revenue to decline in the high single digits driven by continued declines in consumer usage in a sluggish economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing costs and SG&amp;A in this segment and hold our operating margins in the 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit the second quarter on the heels of a very strong quarterly performance and a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous strides in transforming Deluxe but we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2013.
Our strong first half of the year positions us well to grow revenue in 2013 for the fourth consecutive year.
We are conservatively not expecting the economic climate to improve throughout the balance of the year until we get better clarity as the third quarter unfolds.
If the economy improves we should have upside in revenue.
At the same time we will not take our eyes off the cost reductions and process improvements and we expect to continue to generate strong cash flows and provide a very attractive dividend.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Now Dave we'll open the line and Terry and I will field questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Charlie Strauzer at CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Terry Lee if you could just talk a little bit more about margins.
I mean you had a very nice jump in margins in the Small Business segment sequentially from Q1 and nicely up year-over-year.
And as we look out to the rest of the year and into next year what are your expectations for margins in that segment? And are we seeing kind of like the bulk of the investment spend in some of the growth initiatives kind of starting to ebb a little bit there? Thanks for the questions Charlie.
This is Terry and I'll go ahead and address that.
We're very happy with the margins that we really delivered in actually all 3 segments this quarter.
They were quite strong across the board but especially strong in Small Business Services where we did see about a 3-point gain from first quarter and a nice year-over-year increase as well.
We do -- the margin that we saw was stronger than I think we would expect to see on an ongoing basis.
I think as we look at the first quarter to second quarter we didn't have as much brand awareness campaign spending in the second quarter and that was -- we planned it that way as well.
So we did expect to see that pop up a little bit there.
Plus too we referenced in our press release and some of the prepared comments there too that we did see -- we got a little bit ahead in our cost reduction so that flowed through.
And most of those cost reductions flowed through in the Small Business segment.
And we also saw lower costs in some other areas like the medical costs and we aren't expecting that favorability will continue.
So we do think that it'll bring our margins a little more in line with what we've seen in the past.
Still we really kind of expect over time that Small Business margin to be kind of in that 17% range 17% to 18% so in the 17s.
That's probably more normal than something closer to the 19% we saw this quarter.
So overall we're again managing this business to deliver a stable and comparable margin rate kind of in the low 20s for the overall company maybe just up slightly over time.
But we're focused more on delivering increasing margin dollars with profitable revenue growth not so much a higher margin rate overall.
But again we will see some volatility especially at a segment level from quarter-to-quarter.
Inc.</strong> Well said.
That was very helpful.
And Lee maybe you could talk a little bit more kind of bigger picture.
Now that you've kind of built out a nice portfolio of offerings in the Small Business in the marketing services area as you talk to customers and customers give you feedback are there pieces that you feel that you're stronger in versus weaker in that you maybe can kind of bolster some of the weaker ones like you did with the acquisition today -- that you announced today I mean? So I think as we said in the prepared comments the key for us in doing all our research and all the work we continue to do with Small Business customers think of it like this.
If you're an early in practice so to speak small business owner we know now that they're looking -- once they've funded their small business and once they've come up with their idea they generally go through a process of wanting to get -- brand themselves and start promoting themselves.
So the presence package or the initial package is around logo and Web design getting them hosted on their website.
And then kind of moving up the maturity curve on marketing as you kind of get more advanced on the Web and then get more advanced in social and then even head on towards wanting to find and get customers through search engine marketing and how you optimize there and then continuing to move out in how you help manage and guide and handle and manage their marketing expense an area that we found and we've been looking at very closely is how do we keep more day-to-day contact.
So not just do a logo for somebody and put it on anything they want it on or host their website or work with them on search.
We wanted to get to the point where we were working more closely.
And we felt -- we call that the promote and market space.
And while we have an e-mail marketing offer we just felt VerticalResponse is just a better offer than what we have.
And the customer base.
And then where they're going they've completely revamped their model.
I had my development people look very closely at the work they've done and we've just been really impressed with what they've come up with.
And that gap now we feel that we had is filled and obviously we've got to fulfill the promise now of that but those are the pieces that were -- that was probably the biggest gap that we had in kind of that services mix.
The other thing that I don't want to underscore is this VerifyValid announcement that we made a few days ago.
If you think about the work that we've done around marketing services and continuing to fill that out and with other print offers that we have we feel we're getting stronger and stronger there.
And of course we have checks and checks is a payment vehicle for people.
And what we like about VerifyValid is it's another more service-oriented and in an electronic payment way although it takes the form of a check.
We think it's a way to fill a gap.
If a small business owner for example is moving from a check and paper and wants to move kind of into an electronified world we see this as a wonderful bridge opportunity.
And again it's early but the initial response we've seen from our small business customers has just been very positive.
So those are areas that we've been trying to look at Charlie and fill in.
And I can't tell you that we're done.
As I mentioned we're continuing to look but I think we filled a big gap that we had with the VerticalResponse opportunity.
Inc.</strong> Well clearly when you've embarked on a path where you've maybe brought in a small company to get you a new leg of the stool so speak in the offering portfolio you've realized that maybe you could find something that can bolster like with the OrangeSoda acquisition for instance where it added on to what you already have there and it kind of turbocharged it.
It seems like those are the methodology you've been kind of going down the path of.
Are there other pieces that you think that are kind of like that you can turbocharge it a little bit more with some acquisitions? We're always looking for customer bases that make sense for us.
Were looking for technologies.
We're looking for process improvements things that we think can add to our infrastructure.
What I would tell you Charlie is those are the things that we'll continue to look at as we continue to look for tuck-in acquisitions that make sense for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Hugen at Feltl.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to dig in a little bit on the VerifyValid.
What does their current customer base look like? And also what was the decision there on your part to partner versus buy? The current customer base at this point Randy we're just getting started.
So we basically -- a lot of things that we do and whether it was initially what we did in the logo design area or what we initially did in the Web services area is we try to pilot and test how our various offer is received by our small business or our consumers.
And so the VerifyValid is a pilot opportunity that we've now decided is something that is significant enough for us in terms of the initial interest that we decided to form a stronger partnership with VerifyValid.
So we're very early stage at this point in time.
We're working through all of the ramifications for how we want to do the partnership and we want to continue to test into that at this point in time.
But we thought it was worthy of announcing because we test a lot of different things and this one was one we just felt was -- it has an opportunity to take off more than other things that we've partnered in.
What I would tell you at this point in time it's just too early to make a decision whether there's an acquisition opportunity with them or in the space in general.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then on VerticalResponse you mentioned that you're expecting about $12 million there in revenue for the rest of the year.
How much of that was their existing clients versus I guess cross-selling into your customer base? Here's the assumption that we -- that's a good question Randy.
Here's the assumption that we made at this point in time.
That's going to mostly come right now from their base of customers because as I mentioned this new freemium model is going to come out here in the fourth quarter and we're getting close to being able to get this out.
And that's when we're going to start to work our retail base and then work our wholesale base into that.
So think of it as we're kind of investing completing the investment in the technology and the platform in the third quarter and then kind of kicking that off into the fourth quarter.
So we're going to try to be really smart about how we do this.
So most of that business is going to be from the current base we have.
I would look at the opportunity for scale here Randy going forward as more as we head into 2014.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the increase in hosted websites is there a specific channel that's driving that or is that really broad-based across the business? Right now as we've mentioned on some of our previous calls we had a number of telco and media company deals that we closed in the second half of 2012 and they all go through this rollout.
And they're all different depending on what the telco wants to do when they're ready to roll how many they want to put in.
And so we expected it to be lumpy as we kind of work through the year.
But it's both on the retail side but it's more on the wholesale side just given the fact that a lot of these telcos are now rolling and migrating in.
And we get both a base when we migrate and then the new business that comes in.
And then in some of the deals it's all coming from an organic buildup as they never really had a website-focused solution.
So I would say it's more wholesale right now but I don't want to not say we're adding retail because that's happening quite nicely as well.
There are no further questions for you now gentlemen so I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Lee Schram for closing remarks.
Again I'd just like to thank everybody for being on the call today and thank Charlie and Randy for their questions.
As I normally say we're going to get back to work roll up our sleeves and I and Terry look forward to providing a positive progress report on our next earnings call.
And obviously as well I'm excited about getting Ed Merritt onboard and we'll have Ed back and he'll participate in the third quarter call.
You'll probably see Ed Terry and I also out on several visits in investor presentations through the quarter.
So with that I'm going to turn it back to Terry and he'll go through the wrap-up of the call.
Thank you Lee.
This is a reminder that a replay of this call will be available until August 9 by dialing (888) 286-8010.
When instructed provide the access code 37879348.
The accompanying slides are archived in our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor.
Again thank you for joining us and have a good afternoon.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Deluxe Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Dave and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder the call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Merritt Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir Thank you Dave and welcome everyone to Deluxe Corporation's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
I'm Ed Merritt Deluxe's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me on the call today are Lee Schram our Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson our Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks.
Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts.
I would like to remind you that comments made today regarding financial estimates projections and management's intentions and expectations regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the press release that we issued this morning as well as in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor.
This information was also furnished to the SEC on the Form 8-K filed by the company this morning.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Ed and welcome to Deluxe and good morning everyone.
We delivered our third outstanding quarter this year and are well-positioned to grow revenue for the full year 4% to 5% despite a continued sluggish economic environment.
If achieved 2013 will represent the fourth consecutive year of revenue growth.
The last time we achieved 4 consecutive years of revenue growth dates back 17 years to 1996.
We reported revenue in the third quarter near the upper end of our outlook and earnings per share exceeded the high end of our outlook.
Revenue grew more than 5% over the prior year quarter.
Small Business Services revenue grew almost 9% and Financial Services revenue grew over 4%.
Checks and forms performed well and marketing solutions and other services revenues grew 18% over the prior year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 13% over prior year.
We generated strong operating cash flow and we were not drawn on our credit facility during the quarter increasing our balance sheet cash position $55 million from last December.
We also repurchased nearly $2 million of common shares in the quarter and have repurchased $34 million year-to-date.
We continued our brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and delivered on our cost reduction commitment in the quarter.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps.
But first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of $0.92 which included losses of $0.04 per share from restructuring and related costs.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $0.96 exceeded the upper end of our outlook and was 13% higher than the $0.85 reported in the third quarter of 2012.
The restructuring charges are primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $398 million and grew 5.2% over last year including 3.2% of organic growth.
Small Business Services revenue of $265 million grew almost 9% versus last year.
While we continue to operate in a weak small business economic environment we delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services which included the impact of recent acquisitions accessories and checks revenue.
Our online Safeguard distributor major accounts and dealer channels each reported growth in the quarter.
Financial Services revenue of $86 million grew over 4% versus last year due to higher marketing solutions and other services revenue.
The impact of lower check orders was more than offset by the benefits of a higher revenue per order.
Direct Checks revenue totaled $46 million which was down almost 10% on a year-over-year basis.
Moving on to a products and services revenue perspective checks were $221 million and represented 55% of total revenue.
Business products were $91 million or 23% of total revenue and marketing solutions and other services were $86 million which represented 22% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 64.3% of revenue which was down 0.9 points from 2012.
Less favorable product mix and increased material and delivery rates were only partially offset by benefits from price increases improvements in manufacturing productivity and delivery initiatives.
SG&amp;A expense increased $2.2 million in the quarter and was 43.6% of revenue compared to 45.3% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost reduction initiatives in all 3 segments were offset by increased SG&amp;A in Small Business Services associated with acquisitions and commissions on increased revenue.
Excluding restructuring charges adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 20.8% which was up 0.8 points from the 20% generated in 2012 due to lower performance-based compensation.
All 3 segments delivered strong operating margins compared to expectations aided by lower costs.
Small Business Services operating margin of 17.9% was up 0.8 points over last year due to cost reduction initiatives.
Financial Services operating margin of 23.8% was up 2 points from 2012 due to higher revenue per order better product and services mix and cost reductions.
Direct Checks operating margin of 32.1% increased 1.1 points from 2012 as we continue to realize planned synergies from integrating Custom Direct.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement.
We increased our cash and cash equivalents balance by $55 million since year end 2012 after paying $69 million net for investing activities and repurchasing $34 million of our common shares.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $644 million down $9 million from year end 2012.
Cash provided by operating activities for the first 3 quarters of the year was $184 million slightly exceeding our expectations and up nearly $7 million from 2012.
Comparing cash flows to last year stronger operating performance lower contributions to fund medical benefits and lower contract acquisition payments were partially offset by higher performance-based variable compensation earned in 2012 but paid out in the first quarter of 2013.
Capital expenditures for the first 3 quarters were $27 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $48 million.
Given our strong performance in the third quarter we are tightening our consolidated revenue outlook range for the year to $1.578 billion to $1.588 billion.
We are also raising our adjusted diluted earnings per share to an expected range of $3.78 to $3.85 excluding $0.11 related to restructuring and transaction-related costs.
There are several key factors that contribute to our improved full year outlook including: Small Business Services revenue is expected to increase 9% to 10% as volume declines and core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments price increases growth in our distributor dealer and major accounts channels and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings including the VerticalResponse acquisition.
We expect Financial Services revenue to be close to flat driven by recurring check order declines of approximately 5% to 6% and some pricing pressure which we expect will be partially offset by HSBC our new national account win continued growth from non-check revenue streams and higher revenue per order.
Direct Checks revenue decline of approximately 10% driven by check volume reductions a continued sluggish economy full year cost and expense reductions of approximately $55 million increases in material costs and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities lower interest expense and an effective tax rate of approximately 34%.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows and are raising our expected range to between $256 million and $262 million in 2013 reflecting stronger earnings.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $12 million for the full year.
2013 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $35 million roughly the same as 2012.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $65 million for the year and includes $20 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 we expect revenue to range from $411 million to $421 million.
We have a slightly wider range than usual due to some uncertainty around the Hurricane Sandy impact year-over-year given the timing of consumer and small business reorders.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $0.95 to $1.02.
In comparison to the third quarter revenue is expected to be higher in the fourth quarter primarily due to seasonal holiday spending tax form offers some small business healthcare forms rollouts plus the continued ramp in marketing solutions and other services revenue primarily driven by migration rollouts in wholesale web services.
Adjusted EPS is expected to increase primarily from higher revenue.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level and repurchase shares to offset dilution.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities we plan to accumulate cash in advance of our 2014 senior note maturity.
In anticipation of this maturity we are evaluating repayment strategies which in addition to using cash on hand may include renegotiating our credit facility or possibly issuing new debt.
We may also from time to time consider retiring outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our increasing cash flow strong balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid quarter as we achieved our cost and expected expense reductions towards our $55 million annual commitment net of investments in 2013.
Year-to-date we have already achieved approximately $42 million in reductions.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2013 is on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation and leveraging order streaming and marketing efficiencies.
We also expect to continue improving the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing investments.
In fulfillment we are continuing to focus on our lean direct and indirect spend reductions; further consolidating our manufacturing technology platforms; driving delivery technology and process efficiencies; reducing spoilage; further enhancing our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements; and continuing with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for Shared Services infrastructure we expect to continue reducing costs in IT and other areas as more opportunities exist to improve efficiencies.
Now I'd like to turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on our key revenue growth area marketing solutions and other services and insights to-date on our brand awareness campaign.
I will then highlight progress in each of our 3 segments including a perspective on what we hope to accomplish in the fourth quarter.
And finally provide some context looking forward to 2014.
Our primary focus for the balance of the year continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues which represents our most significant revenue growth opportunity.
We will continue to assess potential small to medium-sized acquisitions that complement our large customer bases with a focus on marketing solutions and other services.
We are adding more products and services to our portfolio and believe our strong small business channel reach including financial institutions online retail wholesale feet on the street distributors dealers partners and major accounts is a differentiator for us in the marketplace.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of a growing suite of products and services a small business needs to market and operate their business.
And helping small to midsized financial institutions with customer acquisition risk management and other value-add services offers.
Here is an update on our 4 subcategories framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We ended the third quarter slightly below our expectations for revenue primarily driven by slower rollouts in the wholesale services space than anticipated.
First small business marketing is expected to represent approximately 40% of revenue in 2013 with expected growth in the low-teens this year.
We saw low-teens growth in the third quarter in this category as we cross-sold to our customer base and added new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
The second category web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO e-mail marketing social and payroll services is expected to represent approximately 32% of revenue in 2013 with expected organic growth rates in the low-teens although expected reported growth will be closer to 30% driven by the VerticalResponse acquisition.
We saw a little slower rollout ramp in wholesale web telco major accounts in the third quarter than anticipated.
We saw growth from the prior year in cross-selling bundled presence packages to our retail base and added more new customers resellers and partners.
We continue to reduce web design and SEM campaign cycle times and churn rates remain low.
We added payroll services customers and many customers added new features such as time and attendance applications.
VerticalResponse revenue was in line with our expectations and operating income was better.
We also are already seeing cross-sell of services like logo design and web services into the VerticalReponse customer base.
Our new platform supporting a premium model in VerticalResponse is now expected to be released in the early part of next year.
Again we expect this emerging premium model will allow us to spur a mass trial and subsequent upsell and cross-sell penetration capability first into our retail but then into our wholesale customer base.
We closed the third quarter with approximately 665 000 web-hosting customers and we expect to close 2013 with nearly 725 000 web-hosting customers or up 32% from 2012 as we expect more migrations in the fourth quarter.
The third category fraud security and risk management services are expected to represent approximately 22% of revenue in 2013 with expected growth rates in the mid-single digits.
We had a solid third quarter as we added program services for new community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
We added Banker's Dashboard customers as well.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 6% of revenue in 2013 with very strong double-digit expected growth rates.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new targeting and campaign services and SwitchAgent clients.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $340 million in 2013 up from $285 million in 2012 with organic growth in the low-teens.
There are 2 drivers of the lower expected revenue from our prior outlook range.
First given the more sluggish economy we have seen lower spend on more discretionary marketing items like promotion and apparel.
And we expect this trend to continue in the fourth quarter which is normally a seasonally higher quarter.
Second as mentioned earlier we saw slower wholesale web services telco rollouts in the third quarter that again we expect to carry over into the fourth quarter.
However we have confidence that these rollouts will come in the first quarter 2014 and this will have a positive impact on 2014.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of almost 22% of revenue including a year end exit run rate around 25% of revenue towards our 25% mix goal and up from 19% in 2012 and 16% and 13% the previous 2 years.
In spite of a reduction in our outlook for marketing solutions and other services revenue we are still guiding near the high-end of our previous revenue outlook primarily driven by stronger small business checks and forms and higher Financial Services rate and conversion activity than expected in our previous outlook.
Now shifting to our brand awareness campaign.
We just completed our third wave and have outperformed publishers' benchmarks for online ad click-thru rates.
We have seen strong traffic to deluxe.com continuing to be up to 20% and total video views of all commercials are now close to 8.8 million over all 3 waves.
Inbound call leads are converting to sales at a very strong rate more than 4x that of our more conventional lead sources.
Our next step on our brand journey is to complete another brand awareness customer study in the fourth quarter.
We will use the results of this in our return on investment criteria to help determine focus areas and spend levels as we exit the year and enter 2014.
Now shifting to our segments.
In Small Business Services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvement as the economic climate for small businesses remained sluggish.
We had strong performance as revenue grew almost 9%.
Checks and forms performed quite well.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
New customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage Referral Program and through our direct response campaigns remain strong.
Average order value and conversion rates improved.
Our online Safeguard distributor major accounts and dealer channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in web e-mail marketing and payroll services.
Again we ended the quarter with approximately 665 000 web-hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices in the third quarter remained roughly flat each month from second quarter readings so no real new direction up or down right now.
Expectations for improved business conditions over the next 6 months did deteriorate but there was a noticeable increase in the number of small business owners expecting higher sales as the third quarter close.
More owners are planning to hire in the coming months and more new firms are starting rather than failing right now.
They continue to spend cautiously more in maintenance mode scrutinize purchases and experience-type cash flow.
In summary current optimism indices have been sluggish and trending flat over the last several quarters.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owner's #1 pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for the remainder of 2013 is on accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers; profitably integrating and extending our marketing solutions and other services portfolio including our VerticalResponse acquisition; effectively acquiring and retaining customers across multiple channels; building a more effective retail services sales model; scaling major accounts and strategic channel partner relationships; and improving our customer experience.
Here's an update on our e-checks partnership that we announced with VerifyValid on our last earnings call.
As a reminder VerifyValid is a leading provider of electronic payment solutions that transforms how businesses and banks use and accept checks.
Small business customers can securely make and receive check payments online utilizing a virtual lockbox and virtual remote deposit capture systems.
We saw a very favorable response from presenting with VerifyValid at the September fall Synovate conference and we'll be launching this product in early November to a portion of our Small Business customer base.
In our initial pilot we saw customers purchasing normal quantities of printed checks and then encouragingly incremental e-checks.
In Financial Services the year-to-date secular check decline rate is just under 6% with the decline rate about 6% in the third quarter versus our outlook of 5% to 6% with rates consistent across both the national and community segments.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current quarter well in excess of 90%.
The HSBC migration has gone very well and we are working several more competitive opportunities.
We simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
We are planning for checks to remain within a decline range of around 5% to 6% for the balance of the year.
We also expect retention rates an excess of 90% on deals pending this year.
And with approximately 90% of our 2013 community bank contract renewals already completed by the end of the third quarter we are well ahead of the linear pace for the year.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
Revenue grew over last year in these non-check services which includes customer acquisition risk management and other profitability offers.
In customer acquisition and specifically our Cornerstone direct marketing analytics offer we saw continued strong growth in new financial institutions.
As the economy is starting to improve mid-market financial institutions are beginning to invest again in customer acquisition.
To further support this strategic opportunity we completed a small tuck-in acquisition of ACTON Marketing in the third quarter.
ACTON is similar to Cornerstone in that they are one of the pioneers in providing direct marketing campaign-targeting and execution services to financial institutions.
This acquisition will help grow marketing solutions and other services revenue for Financial Services by combining the Cornerstone and ACTON businesses and bringing the best of their collective programs to their customer bases.
It is a natural fit as ACTON and Cornerstone provide very similar and complementary services for the customers they serve plus ACTON brings us a data and analytics platform.
We have already synergistically begun the migration of Cornerstone into ACTON's offices.
For SwitchAgent our all-branch rollout with a large financial institution continues to perform well.
And financial institutions that use SwitchAgent continue to realize a more profitable new account base due in part to the roles of SwitchAgent in activating key payment services.
We are closely collaborating with our financial institutions to identify and execute product enhancements that further our vision for the most simple and efficient account switching and anchoring experience for financial institution customers.
Banker's Dashboard also continued to perform well in the third quarter.
As you can see momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these marketing solutions and other services in 2013.
In Direct Checks revenue was right in line with our expectations.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers.
Although we have made significant progress with the Custom Direct integration we are still working on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
As an example we now have one integrated process for producing all direct-to-consumer checks.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and upsell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
For 2013 we expect Direct Checks' revenue to decline right around 10% driven by continued declines in consumer usage in a sluggish economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and hold our operating margins in the 30% range while generating strong operating cash flows.
As we exit the third quarter on the heels of another outstanding quarterly performance in a continued challenging economy we made good progress again in transforming Deluxe but we still have a lot of work and opportunities ahead of us.
We are continuing to prudently plan that the economic climate will not improve in the fourth quarter.
Our primary focus continues to be on revenue growth especially in marketing solutions and other services and on brand positioning.
We expect to continue the trend of revenue growth in the fourth quarter with strong high-single digit growth.
At the same time we will not take our eyes off the cost reductions and process improvements and we expect to continue to generate strong cash flows and provide a very attractive dividend.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Looking ahead to 2014 our portfolio is better positioned to deliver continued sustainable revenue growth.
We are planning for what we expect to be a fifth consecutive year of revenue growth.
Given the continuing sluggish economic climate we believe it is prudent right now to expect the increase in 2014 revenue to be approximately 2% to 4% compared to 2013 which is expected to produce adjusted diluted earnings per share growth ranging from approximately 3% to 6% with the assumption that we will continue to spend on brand awareness and also have a slightly higher tax rate in 2014 compared to 2013.
To give some more color on our revenue thinking we are planning on consumer checks through our financial institutions to decline 5% to 6% on a secular basis.
On top of this we have extended all large financial institution contracts through at least 2014 with the exception of one that we are working to extend.
And we have about the same community bank contract dollars up for renewal on 2014 compared to 2013.
And as mentioned earlier we have more competitive opportunities coming due through to 2014.
In business products we expect to expand existing organic initiatives in Shop Deluxe our Canadian business and add Safeguard distributors dealers and major accounts.
In marketing solutions and other services we expect organic revenue growth roughly in the low to mid-teens.
To give some more color on our thinking if we annualize 2013 expected revenue adjusting for a full year of VerticalResponse and organically grow roughly in the low to mid-teens this would imply a targeted marketing and other services revenue to total revenue mix of approximately 25% for the year.
We expect to exit the fourth quarter of 2013 closer to this 25% mix given the seasonal business.
We are excited with our progress here.
And with a more cooperative economy and continued possible additional tuck-in acquisitions as catalyst we could potentially grow marketing services -- marketing solutions and other services even faster.
We also expect our costs and expense reduction initiatives to continue in 2014.
From a housekeeping standpoint each quarter in 2014 has the same number of business days as in 2013.
It is also extremely important for us to see how the fourth quarter progresses and to closely monitor the marketplace and the economy over the next 3 months before providing more specific outlook details for 2014.
And now Dave we're going to open the line up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] This comes from Charlie Strauzer at CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Well first of all congratulations.
It seems like the momentum is building nicely in the marketing solutions and other services segments there and it sounds like you've got some pretty good traction in some of the new offerings there.
And Lee if we look at the kind of the whole picture and you talk about your 25% of 2014's revenue should come from that segment what do you think the -- kind of the key growth drivers are going to be? Is it more just getting the brand awareness campaigns to kick in is it more of the outbound calling centers' upsells? I mean where do you think you're seeing the best traction now and what do you think it will kind of be next year? Let me go down Charlie the 4 subcategories to give you a little perspective here.
We have had 2 very strong quarters in a row in the web-to-print space.
We are building on the core that they had in getting more customers to buy various web-to-print offers.
We also are bringing that solution into our core customer base as well as into our dealer our Safeguard our major account channels.
And what I would tell you is we're not nearly penetrated in any of those channels.
Some of them we're not even a 1/4 to 1/3 of the way into those channels at this point.
So we see wonderful opportunities in this basis.
We also see opportunities within that marketing category in some of the more discretionary products and I mentioned we're seeing a little sluggishness right now in the economy.
We're still growing very nicely there and we see those opportunities as we move into next year as well.
In the web services space it's a combination where we see opportunities for growth across all the categories in there.
So again I mentioned on the call it's wonderful already to see logos and web hosting and web services being sold into that 45 000 customer base in VerticalResponse.
So we see more opportunities there.
We see more opportunities with wholesale telco accounts.
We're working accounts now.
And unfortunately as I mentioned in the call in the prepared comments we have timing issues that are always moving around a bit but we've got secure deals that we're migrating in and we see more opportunities in that space next year as well.
We also see obviously the opportunity when we get this premium model into the market early next year at VerticalResponse to start building on that e-mail marketing platform as well.
Growth opportunities in both search engine marketing and optimization as we get more partners more resellers on board and also payroll services opportunities as well.
So feel very good about that category.
I think we'll see solid growth in the whole risk management fraud security across all our 3 segments.
I think there's -- the growth rates there are not expected to be as big as the growth rates in the first 2 categories but I think we'll see strong growth there.
And then we are excited it's a very small acquisition we made in the quarter with ACTON but what an opportunity for us to take what's starting to become a better opportunity in Cornerstone for us and really build upon that and combine it obviously cost reduction efficiencies but also synergies on how we go to market there.
And that data and analytics platform at ACTON is just a wonderful opportunity for us as well.
So hopefully you get a sense that there's really wonderful opportunities across all 4 of those subcategories and we feel very good about where we are and excited about the fourth quarter and then as we proceed in the next year.
Inc.</strong> That's very helpful Lee.
Thank you.
And I think when you look back a few years you used to talk about share of wallet with your existing customer base on the check side.
And you kind of look in fast forwarding now to where we are today and how you had some success now are you satisfied where kind of that share of wallet is today versus maybe where it was 5 years ago? As far as the check share of wallet.
Inc.</strong> Well I mean you talked about taking that share of wallet for the customer that was buying checks from you and increasing it through selling other services.
And it sounds like obviously as that kind of progressed over time you've had very good success in the Marketing Solutions side.
And now that -- with kind of looking at in retrospect are you kind of happy where you are now in terms of expanding kind of your ARPU if you will with your existing customers? Yes absolutely.
I mean I mentioned we've increased average order value we've seen conversion rates get better.
But Charlie there's more opportunity here for us.
And I want you to think about it and the other investors here on the call that one of the things that we're starting to build out in a richer way is taking the platform that core web services platform that we have and bringing all of those other offers that we've added to that web services portfolio suite whether they'd be the logo area or the e-mail marketing area or the search areas and really making that a simpler and a more ease-of-use and a better customer experience.
And we're working on that.
We've done some things to improve there but we're working hard behind the scenes right now to even build that out in a bigger way.
And we think when we get that platform and that ease-of-use that opportunity to put more of that lift and reach and that cross-sell into our customer base is going to be a nice play for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Hugen at Feltl and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First I just want to clarify on your EPS thoughts for 3% to 6% growth into 2014.
Were you thinking about that from a GAAP basis from an adjusted basis or really from both? Hi Randy this is Terry.
That's from an adjusted basis so the adjusted range that we have given is adding on top of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right perfect.
And then in the Financial Services segment margins were up year-over-year but it looks like they tick down a bit sequentially.
So what was behind that sequential decline and how should we think about that segment going forward? Randy this is Lee.
You might recall that we -- this question actually came up on the last call from somebody and they said as we've seen very strong raise the first couple of quarters you expect to see that.
And Terry commented that we expect to kind of see it in the low to mid-20s as we go through the balance of the year.
So this is right in line with what we expected.
And think of it as -- we're always timing investments that we're making and we're making investments in improving the check business for the financial institutions.
We're also making investments organically in SwitchAgent in the marketing solutions and other services space.
And then we had the initial transaction and some costs associated with the ACTON deal that came in.
Those are small but all those kind of contributed and again but right in line with what we would have expected.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then you mentioned something about healthcare reform.
Is there a significant opportunity for you guys there to sell forms and others things in small businesses there? I mean can you kind of quantify how big of an impact that might be? We have -- it's not healthcare reform.
It's health forms.
And we have some hospitals that we are -- consider as small business customers where we have some nice-sized rollouts.
And we do this for our customers.
We have -- it's actually a combined forms and then some services that we do when they go through their annual enrollment processes.
Similar to Deluxe here in the fourth quarter we have an annual enrollment process a lot of companies do.
So it's an opportunity we have with several hospitals.
And are we trying to bring those into more as we get efficient and proficient at this? Absolutely Randy.
It's a nice opportunity for us as we move forward.
Sir you have no further questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Okay Dave.
I think we're going to go to wrap up here.
Okay? Thank you very much sir.
Now I'd like to turn the call back to Mr.
Lee Schram for closing remarks.
I thank everybody for your participation today.
I want to leave you with a couple of summary thoughts.
First of all we delivered our third outstanding quarter this year.
Second we're now well-positioned to deliver our fourth consecutive year of revenue growth in 2013.
And the third thought we have established a solid foundation to grow our revenue again in 2014.
We're now going to roll up our sleeves get back to work and we look forward to providing a positive progress report on our next earnings call.
Thank you for joining us and that concludes Deluxe's third quarter 2013 earnings call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the fourth quarter 2013 Deluxe Corporation earnings conference call.
My name is Gwen and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-Answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today Mr.
Ed Merritt Treasurer and VP of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Gwen and welcome everyone to Deluxe Corporation's fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
I'm Ed Merritt Deluxe's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me on today’s call are Lee Schram our Chief Executive Officer; Terry Peterson our Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts.
I’d like to remind you that comments made today regarding financial estimates projections and management's intentions and expectations regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the press release that we issued this morning as well as in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012.
The financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor.
This information was also furnished to the SEC on the Form 8-K filed by the company this morning.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Deluxe delivered our fourth outstanding quarter of 2013.
We reported revenue above the mid-point of our outlook and adjusted earnings per share above the high end of our outlook.
Revenue grew 8% over the prior year quarter driven by Small Business Services growth of 12% and a record revenue growth rate in Financial Services of over 5%.
Marketing solutions and other services revenues grew 20% over the prior year and represented 25% of total fourth quarter revenue.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 9.5% over the prior year.
We generated strong operating cash flow of $262 million for the year and we were not drawn on our credit facility during the quarter increasing our balance sheet cash position $76 million from last December.
We also repurchased $15 million of common shares in the quarter and nearly $49 million for the year.
We acquired Destination Rewards in late December to support our Financial Services customer acquisition strategy and specifically to help financial institutions with reward and loyalty programs for their customers.
We continued our brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and delivered on our $55 million cost reduction commitment.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thanks Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of $0.90 which included $0.07 per share for restructuring charges an asset impairment charge of $0.06 and transaction costs of $0.01.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $1.04 exceeded the upper end of our previous outlook and was 9.5% higher than the $0.95 reported in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The restructuring charges are primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations.
The asset impairment charge related to our customer relationship intangible asset in the Small Business Services segments and the transaction changes were from the Destination Rewards acquisition.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $418 million growing 8% over last year and 5% sequentially from last quarter.
All three of our business segments performed well compared with our expectations.
Small Business Services revenue of $285 million grew 12% versus last year with approximately 9% organic growth in the quarter.
While we continue to operate in a sluggish economic environment we delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services Financial Services revenue of $86 million grew at a record pace of over 5% versus the fourth quarter of last year with organic growth of 3%.
Price increases higher non-check services revenue and revenue from HSBC which is a new customer more than offset the impact of lower check orders.
Direct Checks revenue of $47 million was down 9% on a year-over-year basis.
From a product revenue perspective checks were $219 million representing 52% of total revenue.
Business products were $94 million or 23% of total revenue and marketing solutions and other services were $105 million which was 25% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 63.6% of revenue which was down 0.9 points from 2012.
Less favorable product mix and increased material and delivery rates were only partially offset by benefits from price increases improvements in manufacturing productivity and delivery initiatives and lower medical expenses.
SG&amp;A expense increased $8.6 million in the quarter and was 42.7% of revenue compared to 43.8% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost reduction initiatives and lower medical expenses in all three segments were offset by increased SG&amp;A in Small Business Services associated with acquisitions and commissions on increased revenue.
Excluding restructuring impairment and transaction charges adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 21.2% which was slightly up from the 21.1% generated in 2012.
All three segments delivered strong operating margins compared to expectations.
Small Business Services adjusted operating margin of 18.6% was up 0.7 percentage points over last year due to better leverage and higher revenue.
Financial Services adjusted operating margin of 24.3% was up 0.5 points from 2012 due to better products and services mix and cost reductions.
Direct Checks adjusted operating margin of 31.7% decreased one point from 2012 due to the decline in revenue just partially offset by expense management initiatives.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement.
For the year we increased our cash and cash equivalent balance by $75.7 million.
This increase is after having used cash to acquire VerticalReponse Acton and Destination Rewards and repurchasing $48.8 million of common stock.
Total debt at the end of the year was $641 million down from $653 million at the end of 2012 primarily due to a change in the value of hedge debt.
Cash provided by operating activities for the year was $261.5 million a $17.5 million increase compared to 2012.
Higher payments for incentive compensation related to our 2012 performance and higher income tax payments were more than offset by lower VEBA contributions to fund future medical benefits and lower interest and contract acquisition payments.
Capital expenditures for the year were $37 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $65 million.
On December 19 we acquired Destination Rewards in an all-cash transaction for $20.1 million net of acquired cash.
The acquisition is expected to generate revenue of at least $15 million during 2014 and be $0.03 dilutive to EPS in 2014 after absorbing acquisition related amortization expense.
Transaction cost for this acquisition of $400 000 were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Looking ahead to 2014 we expect consolidated revenue on a full year basis to range from $1.61 billion to $1.65 billion.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $3.90 to $4.10.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full year outlook including Small Business Services revenue is expected to increase 6% to 8% as volume declines in core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments price increases growth in our distributor dealer and major accounts channels and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings which include vertical response.
We expect Financial Services revenue to be plus or minus 2% or roughly flat at the mid point driven by recurring check order declines of approximately 6% and some pricing pressure which we expect will be at least partially offset by continued growth from non-check revenue streams including Destination Rewards higher revenue per order and the full year of HBSC.
Our Direct Checks revenue decline of approximately 10% to 11% driven by check order volume declines a continued sluggish economy full year cost and expense reductions of approximately $55 million net of investments increases in medical expenses material costs and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced internet capabilities lower interest expense in the fourth quarter and an effective tax rate of approximately 34%.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging between $260 million and $275 million in 2014 reflecting stronger earnings and lower VEBA and incentive compensation payments offset by higher contract acquisition and tax payments.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $25 million.
2014 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million slightly higher than 2013 as we continue to grow Deluxe.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be at $64 million including approximately $20 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the first quarter of 2014 we expect revenue to range from $397 million to $405 million.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $0.91 to $0.96.
As we indicated on our third quarter earnings call each quarter in 2014 has the same number of business days as in 2013.
Also as a reminder historically Direct Checks has the strongest revenue quarter over the year in the first quarter.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our business transformation.
We also expect to maintain our current dividend level and repurchase shares to offset dilution.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities we plan to accumulate cash in advance of our 2014 senior note maturity.
In anticipation of this maturity we are evaluating repayment strategies which in addition to using cash-on-hand may include renegotiating our credit facility or possibly issuing new debt.
We may also from time to time consider retiring outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our increasing cash flow strong balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid year and we delivered on our commitment to reduce our cost and expenses in 2013 by approximately $55 million bringing our total reductions since mid-2006 to approximately $490 million.
Looking ahead to 2014 we will continue our focus on the revenue growth phase of our transformation but will not lessen our focus on cost and expense reductions.
We expect to drive an incremental $55 million of cost reductions net of investments in 2014.
Approximately 60% of the $55 million in expected reductions will come from sales and marketing another 30% from fulfillment and the remaining 10% coming from our shared services organizations.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2014 will be on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation and leveraging order streaming and marketing efficiencies.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lien direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms drive delivery technology and process efficiencies reduce spoilage further enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangement and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for Shared Services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce expenses primarily in IT but we also have opportunities in finance and real estate.
As an example in IT we expect to finish the migration from our current outsourced IT infrastructure provider to a new provider early in the year and we expect to receive not only more state of the art technology and security capabilities but also a reduced expense structure.
Now I'll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with a perspective on what we accomplished overall in 2013 then provide expectations for 2014 for our key revenue growth area marketing solutions and other services as well as the longer-term strategic perspective on revenue mix.
I will then highlight progress in each of our three segments including a perspective on what we plan to accomplish in 2014.
Deluxe grew revenue in 2013 for the fourth consecutive year for the first time since 1996.
We saw continued stability in our core check and business products and improved our mix of faster growing marketing solutions and other services revenues to 22% of total annual revenue.
We acquired VerticalResponse Acton and Destination Rewards to expand opportunities in higher growth marketing solutions and other services.
We also accelerated our brand transformation with our ‘Work Happy’ campaign.
In addition to our strong print leadership we continue to invest in our employment brand in digital technology and extending our sales channel reach and in our communities.
We ended 2013 with over 4.5 million small business customers of which approximately 20% of them are marketing solutions and other services customers and we serve approximately 5 500 financial institutions.
In Shared Services Infrastructure we reduced cost and improved the effectiveness of information technology finance human resources real estate and legal functions.
Our intent to focus on cost reductions has now delivered enterprise wide savings of $490 million since mid-2006.
We exited the year with more robust and innovative products and services solidified processes a better infrastructure and improved financial results.
Our operating cash flow grew for the fifth straight year allowing us to maintain our dividend increase cash on hand and pay cash for three acquisitions.
We recognize that there is still a tremendous amount of work to do but we made great strides in 2013.
As we enter 2014 our primary focus continues to be on profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues.
We have created more differentiated technology led check offers through investments and automated flat packaging digital printing high security checks and online portals and dashboards.
We also have significant growth opportunities in marketing solutions and other services.
We will continue to assess potential small to medium size acquisitions that complement or large customer basis with the focus on marketing solutions and other services.
We have strengthened our channels and small business to include financial institutions online retail wholesale distributors dealers and major accounts.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of everything a small business needs to market and operate their business and helping small to mid-sized financial institutions with customer acquisitions risk management and other value add services offers.
Here is an update on our four sub-categories framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We ended 2013 at $343 million in revenue a little stronger than our expectations with mix in the four sub-categories basically in line with our expectations.
First small business marketing finished 2013 at 40% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and is expected to represent approximately 38% in 2014 with expected growth in the mid teens this year.
Key 2014 growth initiatives include scaling web-to-print by cross selling to our PsPrint and core deluxe customer basis and continuing to add new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
As some additional color we have only penetrated web-to-print in about 5% of our distributor and dealer end customers so there remain considerable penetration opportunities.
The second category web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO Email Marketing Social and Payroll Services finished 2013 at 32% of total marketing solutions in other services revenue and is expected to represent approximately 32% in 2014 with expected organic growth rates in the low teens.
Key 2014 growth initiatives and performance drivers include adding wholesale web telco and SEM SEO major accounts including several multi-million dollar annual revenue telco and media customers that we have already secured.
Cross selling to our retail base through bundle presence packages adding more new customers resellers and partners reducing web design and SEM campaign cycle times and churn rates and adding payroll services customers plus new features such as time and tenant applications.
This category is also our focus area for Tuck-in acquisitions.
We closed 2013 with approximately 730 000 web-hosting customers and we expect to close 2014 with nearly 850 000 or up 16% from 2013.
The third category; Fraud Security Risk Management and Operational Services finished 2013 at 22% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and are expected to represent approximately 19% in 2014 with expected growth rates in the mid single digits.
Key growth initiatives include scaling our program services including adding new features for both national and community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
It also includes adding Banker’s Dashboard customers and providing a tablet solution.
Finally other financial institution services finish 2013 at 6% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and are expected to represent approximately 11% in 2014 with expected growth rates in the very strong double digits.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new financial institution customers in targeting and campaign services SwitchAgent and gift and reward cards as well as scaling our latest acquisition Destination Rewards.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $400 million to $410 million in 2014 up from $343 million in 2013 with organic growth in the low teens.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 25% of revenue and up from 22% in 2013 and 19% and 16% the previous two years.
We are also introducing today a strategic objective to increased marketing solutions and other services as a percent of total company revenue to approximately 40% by 2018 with checks expected to represent approximately 40% of revenue and business products expected to represent approximately 20% of revenue.
Here is an update on our brand awareness campaign.
In 2013 we completed three ways of television online digital and print advertising.
Those programs outperformed publishers’ benchmarks for online ad click through rates and drove strong traffic to Deluxe.com up 20% and almost 9 million video views.
We also continue to see strong conversions from resultant inbound calls more than four times that of our conventional lead sources.
We completed our small business brand awareness study late in the fourth quarter and saw a number of very positive improvements in areas such as brand awareness buying consideration and likelihood to recommend.
For example for existing customers we saw double-digit percentage improvements and familiarity with Deluxe as a website design and hosting services provider.
Our intent for 2014 is to continue our brand awareness campaign including television online digital and print media.
We plan to increase our focus on direct response marketing as well as drive a more targeted local market concentration.
This supports our approach of extending our marketing reach into a unified transaction and customer experience enabling right time solutions for our customers.
Now shifting to our segments in Small Business Services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remain sluggish.
We had a strong performance however as revenue grew 12% or about 9% organically.
Checks and forms performed well and seasonal holiday offers performed slightly better than our expectations.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
New customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage referral program and through our direct response campaigns remained strong.
Visitor traffic and average order value increased and conversion rates remained strong.
Our online Safeguard distributor and dealer channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in web e-mail marketing and web-to-print services.
Again we ended the year with approximately 730 000 web-hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices declined at the start of the quarter in October but then rose in November and again in December but they were collectively below mid-year 2013 readings.
A recent poll conducted by Gallup and Wells Fargo found that 23% of small business owners are more optimistic about the future of their businesses going into 2014 than they were at the same time last year.
Roughly half or 49% felt either more or less optimistic and 28% were less optimistic.
While slightly more small business owners are optimistic about 2014 compared to results going into 2012 when the figure was 21% opinions remain mixed.
They continue to spend cautiously although positively capital spending rose significantly in December more in maintenance mode and SMV continued to scrutinize purchases and experience tight cash flow.
Encouragingly job creation readings were at the best since February 2006.
In summary current optimism indices remain sluggish but trended higher exiting 2013.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owner's Number one paying point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for 2014 is on accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers creating an effective end-to-end integrated technology customer experience effectively acquiring and retaining customers and optimizing sales channel effectiveness and channel marketing opportunities.
In Financial Services for the year we saw the rate of decline of checks perform slightly below 6% with the decline rate about 6% in the fourth quarter versus our outlook of 5% to 6% with rates consistent across both the national and community segments both in the fourth quarter and for the year.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current quarter well in excess of 90%.
We won several nice sized revenue financial institution new check customers including a multi-million one which also includes a corner stone targeting and campaign services solution.
We also simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
Late in 2013 the Federal Reserve released their most recent payment study and in it included a checks written decline rate from 200 to 2012 of 8.8%.
Our decline rate over the same period was around 7.7% and we also know our decline rate through 2013 was significantly lower than this rate.
Looking ahead to 2014 we expect check units to be in a decline range of around 6% or right in line with 2013 decline rates.
Retention rates to be well in excess of 90% on deals pending this year.
We have already extended all our large contracts through at least the end of 2014 except one for which we expect to finalize term shortly for a long-term renewal.
We have slightly lower community bank contract dollars up for renewal in 2014 compared to 2013 entering the year and we also continue to work a number of competitive RFPs and expect a decision on several this quarter that are not in the outlook.
We also implemented a price increase at the start of this year.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
Fourth quarter revenue grew at the highest organic rate of any quarter in 2013 in these non-check services which include customer acquisition risk management and other profitability offers.
In customer acquisition and specifically our Cornerstone and Acton targeting and campaign services offers we saw continued growth in new financial institutions.
For SwitchAgent we continue to closely collaborate with our financial institutions to identify and execute product enhancements that further our vision for the most simple and efficient account switching and anchoring experience for financial institution customers and we expect to introduce an enhanced more electronified offers late in the first quarter of 2014.
Banker's Dashboard also continued to perform well in the quarter.
Near the end of 2013 we also completed the acquisition of Destination Rewards a leading rewards and loyalty program provider.
This acquisition will enhance our customer acquisition and retention suite of offers.
In the customer acquisition and retention space we now have targeting and campaign services offers through Cornerstone and Acton and account activation and anchoring offer in SwitchAgent and now an account activation and retention rewards and loyalty offer.
Destination Rewards has developed a patented innovative zero liability rewards and loyalty solution that is based upon an expensive merchant network for discounted retail goods and services.
Their offers drive customer retention and influence behaviors at a fraction of the cost of traditional loyalty and incentive programs.
Their largest customers include one of the largest financial institutions as well as through Humana and Experion.
As you can see strong momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these marketing solutions and other services in 2014.
In Direct Checks revenue was right in line with our expectations.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers.
Although we have made significant progress with the Custom Direct integration we are still working on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best in class direct-to-consumer check experience.
As an example we now have one integrated process for producing all direct-to-consumer checks.
We continued to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up-sell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
For 2014 we expect Direct Checks' revenue to decline in the 10% to 11% range driven by continued declines and consumer usage in a sluggish economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and drive our operating margins in the 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit 2013 on the heels of an outstanding quarterly performance and a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe but we have many opportunities ahead of us in 2014.
We believe we are well positioned entering 2014 for our fifth consecutive year of revenue growth.
Despite the sluggish economy our financial discipline has enabled us to invest in people technology products services and our brand in order to position ourselves for sustainable revenue growth while continuing to improve profitability and operating cash flow.
Our technologies and sales channels are stronger.
Our digital technology services offer is more mature our infrastructure better and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We know it is critical for us to be able to grow revenue again in 2014 and improve the mix of our marketing solutions and other services revenue and we are well positioned to make this happen.
We have developed a strong platform for long term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Before I open the call to questions I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of Deluxe employees for their hard work dedication and simply outstanding performance in 2013.
Thank you Deluxers.
Lets get off to a great start in 2014 and strive for five for five consecutive years of profitable revenue growth.
And now Gwen we’ll turn the call back to you and open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Charlie Strauzer with CJS Securities.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Hey Charlie.
Hey just a couple of quick questions and I apologize if I gave this number.
There is a lot of data that I was trying to keep notes on but did you give an overall organic growth rate? I know you gave it for a Small Business segment but did you have an overall growth rate in Q4 for organic? We did not include an organic growth rate for the overall company.
We just gave the pieces for our Small Business and Financial Services.
Got it.
Is it possible maybe just to give us a rough sense of that at all or… I don’t have the math right in front of me but I can give you that later Charlie.
But you can figure it out too from the two segments that we provided.
Very good and then Lee spoke about some fees that might be awarded or announced I should say in this current quarter even if there is a little bit more color behind it.
Are others kind of mid sized company contracts or large sized ones a little bit more information on that if you could? We would consider more to be the national one is a little bit larger than the other one but I would consider them both nice opportunities for us and we’re continuing to work with them and as I said we expect a decision in the quarter.
And Lee when you’ve had success in winning some new contracts in the past few years what’s the kind of the underlying scene for a bank making a switch like that.
Is it the processes behind the scene is it price or the combination of that is it the breadth of services you now provide what do you think is kind of the main factors there? Yes I think its all.
What we try to do is show the financial institutions that we’re committed from a technology standpoint to continue to improve the way we produce checks and deliver checks.
We also clearly bring the offers that we have and that we’re expanding now in the financial institution space as well and then we clearly bring our what we think is our differentiation and the way we help financial institutions penetrate and retain and expand the consumer reach of checks in getting more consumers to come to the financial institutions for checks and then clearly Charlie it’s the reach that we have and the offers that we have in that Small Business space that we also try to work with the financial institutions onto our Deluxe Business Advantage program and obviously we have to be in the game from a price standpoint or we wouldn’t get to participate.
So that’s how I would look at it and summarize.
For different banks there is different reasons and different focus areas but those are generally the things that we focus on.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Hugen with Feltl.
Please proceed.
Thanks.
I wanted to talk about VerifyValid.
How did the larger pilot program go there and are you still seeing the same sort of results with price purchasing incremental electronic checks trying to slow down [independent checks] (ph).
Yes we’ve taken ourselves Randy out of what I would call the pilot mode now and we’re starting to roll this out to our customer base and so what we’ve done is we started it with our call centers and so we actually have both inbound and outbound programs and another thing that as you know we talked a lot about the differentiation in our channel reach and what we’ve done Randy is we’ve also introduced it into the Safeguard Distributor channel and we’re currently building out programs for our deal channel as well.
So we’re not only trying to sell it through our core traditional channels we’re also – and we have received orders from the distributor channel and some of the dealer channels at this point as well.
So the way we position it is in addition to the checks obviously the paper or the printed checks that we have.
Its an alternative payment vehicle and we’re working with a number of major FEI’s for rollout adoption and we continue to be very enthusiastic about it and as we work our way through the year we’ll add some commentary throughout on how its going but I’d like you to leave the call thinking that we’re enthusiastic about it and we’re now into what I would call a full blown more of a full blown.
Its not all the way into the – and because its early on at this point but that’s where it stands.
Alright great.
And then for Destination Rewards what are some of the largest verticals right now and then can you just give us a little more information about how you see that company selling into your current client base.
Yes we’re really excited about this.
We’ve done a lot of research in the rewards and loyalty space and one of the things that I want to give investors some confidence in first of all Randy is that people can think well what does Deluxe know about these spaces and that would be from our traditional heritage that would be a fair question but what John who runs the Financial Services segment has done is bring in leaders and sales and product development talent product management talent that came from these areas.
So what we have been able to do is really gain and learn a lot as we’re going through our assessment in this space.
And as far as the verticals right now I mentioned Humana and Experion.
There are a couple of other names in the Telco in the media space in the retail space that we are working on right now to pilot and then we just don’t have permission yet to share those names.
They are household names who you would recognize and then the largest customer that I mentioned is a large financial institution again.
We do not have the liberty to share that name.
But our desire is to expand yes vertically but really start to focus into the financial institution space and principally in the – and below the top what I would call the top 25 financial institutions and then down into the community bank market.
And this is an area of opportunity when you think about Randy to partner in with some of our other offers and the targeting and campaign services and the account activation and just bring this suite of services to the again principally the regionals and the community bank markets and we are excited about it and we think we got a winning a value proposition with the DR folks and the DR team.
Okay now that makes sense.
And thinking about your 2014 expectations overall can you kind of go over what you think needs to happen to come in towards the higher end of the range and I guess what kind of problems you might run into that could bring the numbers towards the lower end? Yes I think when its early in the year its obviously difficult to try to get more predictive on where we are going to fit within that range.
But the way to think about it is we have not built in a better world so to speak.
If you think about the range obviously if we are lower on the range at the 6% on Small Business Services than where we’ve kind of traditionally been which last year we probably grew at 8% organically in Small Business so that would be more of the top-end.
What would have to happen is just more of a sluggishness in the Small Business economy so to speak or what they are faced with and how they are looking at things.
And then the other thing I would say Randy is how we bring out the new services in the Financial Services space.
So we guided a plus and minus 2% there and I think its all going to come down to how well – we are enthusiastic we are optimistic about what we are doing with the Acton’s and the Cornerstones and the Banker’s Dashboard and Switch and DR but again some of these things and where the banking world is going to go and we’ll probably dictate again a little bit of range around that.
So its not for our lack of enthusiasm of what we got out there in offers its more just tempered by and just not understanding.
There’s a lot of mix.
I gave that an interesting – the Gallup in the Wells Fargo survey.
This is kind of – there is some optimism there is some pessimism and there is this kind of this 50% felling in the middle in small businesses.
So I guess that’s the way that we are thinking about it right now and clearly our desire is to get the company to continue to grow quickly as we can and yet be smart about the approach and how we are attacking it.
All right thanks.
That wraps up for me and great job this year guys.
Thank you Randy.
(Operator Instructions).
The next question comes from the line of (Inaudible).
Please proceed.
Hi Ed I had a few questions.
Can you just quickly go through the impairment charge in the fourth quarter and how it relates to the Small Business Services segment and then also the restructuring charges in that segment as well.
What’s going on there? Yes the restructuring charge that we checked was related to mostly our cost reduction initiatives.
We had some charges in the quarter related to consolidation of an outsourced IT provider.
They also had some consolidation efforts where we are brining two other people under more common and streamline management structure.
So there are some severance charges within that piece as well and that’s a fairly normally mix the types of activities that we would be executing to deliver on a cost savings and to continue to move the transformation forward.
So I would say those are more normal types of expenses and charges that we would take.
On the asset impairment that actually comes from a reporting unit within our Small Business Services segment and it really essentially relates to a – back when you do acquisitions you have to value and allocate that purchase price you have to make a lot of assumptions around the business and then where you expect to get your customers and virtually everyone we do.
We make those sorts of assumptions and in this particular case we had the business as it continued to develop and mature after we purchased it.
We were seeing more of our leads and referrals coming in from different sources and different places than we had initially assumed when we allocated that purchase price.
So the accounting rules forced you to kind of go through kind of a revisit on those periodically and if those things have changed they can trigger an impairment so that’s really what happened here.
The fact that that impairment charge was taken really has no impact as we are running and continuing to invest in that business and it just really has no impact on the strategy at all but its really just involving sort of assumptions and the difference evolves and matures and… Can you disclose what acquisition that was? We are not planning to disclose the exact acquisition just because it doesn’t have any impact on that business going forward or the strategy but it does come from a recording unit within small business.
Okay and do you have any outlook for what the restructuring charges may be in fiscal ’14? We pretty much take what we know because the accounting rules are quite easy to do that.
But it can be really contemplating; you don’t generally get to record it.
So we don’t have an outlook or an expectation for next year for specific restructuring charges.
As decisions get made and as things change and as we go after different opportunities you know that can change throughout the year just like it has in the past years.
But right now we have bought up and recorded everything we have in the works and are working on.
Okay and this is kind of a strategic question.
I know a pretty sizable amount of our revenue comes through call centers.
Do we have any metric in terms of how much revenue is coming strictly from online transactions and then if we have that is there any type of target we are moving towards that we can point to? Are you talking about Small Business the banking the company? I mean can you talk about some of the ways you are looking at it.
I think that would be really helpful for everybody.
The way we think about it is can we – I’m going to talk about Small Business first.
Most of the banking comes through the online and then if customers want support we have call center support for that as well but a lot of it comes out with the people online reordering their checks.
In the case of Small Business here is our approach.
If you think about the 4.5 million customers that we are selling to and if you think about where those customers are coming from the largest customer in the small business base still comes through the financial institutions through our Deluxe business advantage program.
But then between retail and wholesale and online and distributors and then the major accounts and our dealers and all that all those are where we also get those 4.5 million small business customers.
The more we can grow that the better right now and our goal is always to grow everyone of those channels.
Most of those channels actually grew both revenue and customers in 2013.
So that’s how we look at it as how – and then the other way we look at is how do we get the lowest cost to acquire within what we are trying to do through off setting and reassessing the channels and the reach that we have through our customers through those.
That’s how we look at it and we don’t give – we haven’t given a specific X number exactly comes through this channel and that channel.
We’ve just given the again an updated number today now its 4.5 million Smaller Business that we have.
Okay can you talk about how the hiring of Amanda Brinkman either builds on what you’re doing or changes what you are doing and how we are approaching the client.
I guess from an overall marketing perspective and then how we are approaching our online.
I mean is there a real big opportunity to increase sales online and potentially save on the cost to acquire.
Yes first of all let me talk about Amanda.
I’ve had this role before but I’ve added to the role.
So if you think about what I’m asking Amanda to do is first of all sit on the senior leadership team and bring that outside brand perspective the rich background that she has through the public release; I want go through all that but also get us buttoned down on how we bring the brand and our public relations and the way we communicate.
For example you are going to see her join Ed and I at a couple of the conferences that he is going to reference here at the end of the call because I want her to get the sense of how we even talk with investors and how that brand comes to life.
So we are really excited to have her here.
She’s got a rich background in terms of working at the agencies and also for large companies and has tremendous success with really brining brands to life there and its been a couple of weeks and its just wonderful to have her here.
Are we going to go more online yes we are always continuing to figure out how do we and our online is obviously growing at double-digit percentages every year as we continue and expand here but there is also that is why these channels are really important at Deluxe is using those channels most effectively.
Sometimes its better to be online for us sometimes its better to have the call center people on wide conversations sometimes its better to use a distributor or use a dealer or a partner or a major account to get our products and services out there.
So you just have to think that that’s how we are attacking it and addressing it and trying to make sure that how do we reduce that cost to acquire and get more customers in and that’s what we are trying to do across all those channels.
Okay thank you.
You’re welcome.
I would now like to turn the call over to Lee Schram for closing remarks.
Okay I’d just like to close with thanking everybody for their participation in the questions today and the way I would summarize is that we delivered four outstanding quarters in 2013 we delivered our fourth consecutive year of revenue growth and we’ve established the solid foundation to grow our revenue again in ‘14 for the fifth consecutive year.
And as I normally say we are gong to get back; roll up our sleeve get back to work.
We look forward to providing a positive progress support in our next earnings call and I’m going to let Ed close with some updates on some of the places you are going to see us over the next couple of months.
Thanks Lee.
Before we concluded today’s call I’d just like to mention that Deluxe’s management will be participating in quite a few coming up events in the first quarter where you can hear more about out transformation.
On February 11 and 12 we’ll be in Boston at the UBS Small-Mid Cap Conference.
On February 24 we’ll be in Miami at the JPMorgan High Yield Conference.
On February 25 26 we’ll be in New York at R.W.
Baird Business Services Conference.
On March 10 and 11 we’ll be in Phoenix at the Credit Suisse 16th Annual Global Services Conference; and on March 18 and 19 we’ll be in Boston at the Bank of America/Merrill Lynch Small-Mid Cap Conference.
Thanks for joining us on this call and that concludes Deluxe’s fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome the Quarter 1 2014 Deluxe Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tracy and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
And I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Merritt Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Tracy.
And welcome everyone to Deluxe Corporation's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
I'm Ed Merritt Deluxe's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me on today's call are Lee Schram our Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson our Chief Executive Officer.
At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts.
I would like to remind you that comments made today regarding financial estimates projections and management's intentions and expectations regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the press release that we issued this morning as well as in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013.
The financial and statistical information that we will be reviewing during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor.
This information was also furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K filed by the company this morning.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
In spite of a challenging severe winter weather season and continued sluggish economy Deluxe delivered an outstanding quarter hitting on all cylinders to start the year.
We reported revenue and adjusted earnings per share above the high end of our outlook.
Revenue grew 5% over the prior year quarter driven by Small Business Services growth of almost 9%.
We also saw over 2% revenue growth in Financial Services which now marks the first time this segment has achieved 3 consecutive quarters of revenue growth ever.
Marketing solutions and other services revenues grew 21% over the prior year and represented 22% of total first quarter revenue.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 7.7% over the prior year.
We generated strong operating cash flow of $73 million.
And we were not drawn on our credit facility during the quarter increasing our balance sheet cash position of $20 million from last December.
We also repurchased $32 million of common shares in the quarter.
We continued our brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and delivered on our cost reduction expectations for the quarter.
Further we added a new board member Tom Reddin who adds deep development and marketing of digital services and brand management expertise all of which are central components of our growth strategy.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps.
But first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thanks Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of $0.93 which included $0.05 per share for restructuring-related charges.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $0.98 exceeded the upper end of our previous outlook and was 7.7% higher than the $0.91 reported in the first quarter of 2013.
The restructuring-related charges are primarily for infrastructure consolidations and employee severance.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $407 million growing 5% over last year.
Small Business Services revenue of $270 million grew 8.7% versus last year with approximately 6% growth in the quarter excluding primarily the VerticalResponse acquisition from last year.
While we continue to operate in a sluggish economic environment we delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services checks and in our online Safeguard distributor and dealer channels.
SBS revenue also benefited from price increases implemented early in the quarter.
Financial Services revenue of $89 million grew 2.2% versus the first quarter of last year and would have declined about 4% excluding recent acquisitions.
Price increases higher marketing and other services revenue and revenue from HSBC more than offset the impact of lower check orders.
Direct Checks revenue of $48 million was down 7.9% on a year-over-year basis but ended ahead of our expectations.
From a product revenue perspective checks were $222 million representing 55% of total revenue.
Business products were $96 million or 23% of total revenue.
And marketing solutions and other services were $89 million which was 22% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 64.4% of revenue which was down 1.2 points from 2013.
Less favorable product mix and increased material and delivery rates were only partially offset by benefits from price increases and improvements in manufacturing productivity and delivery initiatives.
SG&amp;A expense increased $2.7 million in the quarter but was better leveraged at 43.7% of revenue compared to 45.2% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost-reduction initiatives in all of 3 segments were offset by increased SG&amp;A associated with the recent acquisitions and our efforts to grow the SBS distribution channel.
Excluding restructuring-related charges adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 20.7% which was up slightly from the 20.4% generated in 2013.
All 3 segments delivered strong operating margins.
Small Business Services adjusted operating margin of 17.2% was up 1.4 percentage points over last year due to planned lower brand awareness spending as we had considerable production start-up expenses in the first quarter of 2013.
Financial Services adjusted operating margin of 25% was down 1.8 points from 2013 due to higher expenses in acquisition amortization associated with the ACTON and Destination Rewards acquisitions.
Direct Checks adjusted operating margin of 32.9% increased 1.4 points from 2013 driven by better leverage and by expense management initiatives and ended ahead of our expectations.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements.
We increased our cash and cash equivalents balance by $19.5 million.
This increase is after using cash to repurchase $32 million of common stock.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $643 million.
Cash provided by operating activities for the quarter was $73.3 million a $21.8 million increase compared to 2013.
The increase was driven primarily by changes in working capital lower performance-based compensation and improved earnings.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were almost $11 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $16 million.
We are tightening our previous consolidated revenue outlook for the full year to the upper end and now expect it to range from $1.62 billion to $1.65 billion.
A recent new financial institution check win anticipated to start late in the third quarter is expected to offset the unfavorable impact of the Canadian exchange rates.
We are increasing our expectations for adjusted diluted earnings per share to a range of $3.97 to $4.12.
There are several key factors that contribute to our stronger full year outlook including Small Business Services revenue is expected to increase 6% to 8% as volume declines in core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments price increases growth in our distributor dealer and major account channels and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings.
We expect Financial Services revenue to be plus or minus 2% or roughly flat at the midpoint driven by recurring check order declines of approximately 6% and some pricing pressure which we expect will at least partially offset -- be partially offset by continued growth from non-check revenue streams including Destination Rewards higher revenue per order a full year of HSBC and a quarter plus from a new account win.
A Direct Checks revenue decline of approximately 10% which is slightly better than our previous outlook driven by check order volume declines.
A continued sluggish economy; a full year cost and expense reductions of approximately $55 million net of investments; increases in medical expenses material costs and delivery rates; continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities; lower interest expense in the fourth quarter; and an effective tax rate of approximately 34%.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows and are increasing our full year 2014 outlook to a range of $270 million to $280 million reflecting stronger earnings and lower VEBA and incentive compensation payments offset by higher tax payments.
We expect full year contract acquisition payments to be approximately $15 million which is less than previously expected.
2014 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million slightly higher than 2013 as we continue to grow Deluxe.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $64 million including approximately $20 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the second quarter of 2014 we expect revenue to range from $393 million to $401 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is expected to range from $0.94 to $0.99.
In comparison to the first quarter revenue and adjusted EPS are expected to be slightly lower at the midpoint of the range in the second quarter primarily due to expected lower Financial Services and Direct Checks revenue and the resulting flow-through to operating income.
Shifting to our capital structure.
We expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small- to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our business transformation.
Additionally we expect to continue paying a quarterly dividend.
In the first quarter we repurchased almost $32 million of common stock compared to about $13 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Although we plan to repurchase more shares than we did last year the pace for the balance of the year is expected to be less than the first quarter level.
For the foreseeable future we plan to allocate more funding to common stock repurchases than we have in recent years.
To the extent we generate cash flow in excess of these priorities we plan to accumulate cash in advance of our October 2014 senior note maturity.
In February we amended our credit facility extending the term by 2 years to 2019 and increasing the size to $350 million which gives us more financial flexibility.
In October we plan to retire our senior notes as they come due using cash on hand and a draw on our new credit facility.
We may also from time-to-time consider retiring outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our increasing cash flow strong balance sheet and flexible capital structure positions us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had a solid start to 2014 in the first quarter as we delivered on our expected cost and expense reductions towards our $55 million commitment net of investments in 2014.
Approximately 60% of the $55 million in expected reductions will come from sales and marketing another 30% from fulfillment and the remaining 10% coming from our Shared Services organizations.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2014 will be on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation and leveraging order streaming and marketing efficiencies.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms drive delivery technology and process efficiencies reduce spoilage further enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for Shared Services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce expenses primarily in IT.
But we also have opportunities in finance and real estate.
As an example in IT we completed the migration from our current outsourced IT infrastructure provider to a new provider in early March and we expect to receive not only more state-of-the-art technology and security capabilities but also a reduced expense structure.
Now I'll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on our overall focus and then highlight progress in each of our 3 segments.
I will also include throughout a perspective on what we hope to accomplish during the balance of 2014.
Our primary focus in 2014 continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues towards our goal of 40% by 2018.
We have created more differentiated technology check offers through investments in automated flat packaging digital printing high security checks and online portals and dashboards.
We also have significant growth opportunities in marketing solutions and other services.
We will continue to assess potential small- to medium-sized acquisitions that complement our large customer bases with a focus on marketing solutions and other services.
We have strengthened our channels in Small Business to include financial institutions online retail wholesale distributors dealers and major accounts.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of a growing suite of products and services that a small business needs to market and operate their business and helping small- to mid-sized financial institutions with customer acquisition risk management and other value-add services offers.
Here is an update on our 4 subcategories' framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We ended the first quarter right in line with our expectations in revenue with mix in the 4 subcategories basically in line with our expectations.
First small business marketing is expected to represent approximately 40% in 2014 with expected growth in the mid-teens this year.
We saw solid growth in the first quarter in the Web-to-print space as we cross-sold to our customer base and added new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
We also saw very strong double-digit growth in retail packaging solutions and expect this growth to continue as we improve our hot stamping e-commerce capability with an improved technology rollout in the second quarter.
The second category Web services which includes logo and Web design Web hosting SEM SEO email marketing social and payroll services is expected to represent approximately 31% in 2014 with expected organic growth rates in the low double-digits.
We saw solid rollouts in both wholesale Web telco and SEM SEO major accounts in the first quarter and also solid growth from the prior year in cross-selling bundled presence packages to our retail base and added more new customers resellers and partners.
In mid-March we released our new email marketing premium offer and are very encouraged with sign-ups and paying customers so far.
We continued to reduce Web design and SEM campaign cycle times and churn rates remain low.
We added payroll services customers and many customers added new features such as time and attendance applications.
This category is also one of our key focus areas for tuck-in acquisitions.
We closed a very strong first quarter with approximately 785 000 Web hosting customers.
And we expect to close 2014 with nearly 850 000 Web hosting customers or up 16% from 2013 as we expect migrations to continue to ramp through the balance of the year.
The third category fraud security risk management and operational services is expected to represent approximately 19% in 2014 with expected growth rates in the low single-digits.
We had a solid first quarter as we added programmed services for new community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
In April we also released our Banker's Dashboard tablet solution which we expect will help to secure new financial institution wins through the balance of the year.
We also started to see initial orders from our VerifyValid e-check software.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 10% in 2014 with expected growth rates in the very strong double-digits.
In the first quarter we saw strong growth in new financial institution customers in targeting and campaign services and delivered on expected revenue from our latest acquisition Destination Rewards.
Starting in the second quarter we will begin piloting our enhanced SwitchAgent 2.0 release.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $400 million to $410 million in 2014 up from $343 million in 2013 with organic growth in the low-teens.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 25% of revenue and up from 22% in 2013 and 19% and 16% the previous 2 years.
Here is an update on our brand awareness campaign.
This week we will finish our first wave of the year of an intense 6-week local market brand awareness campaign targeting the Raleigh North Carolina and Columbus Ohio markets through television online digital and print media.
We have seen very strong results in these 2 markets compared against other markets where we did not complete brand awareness initiatives.
For example we have seen visitor traffic from these markets increase 424% in Ohio and 363% in North Carolina.
And these states have moved from #8 and #13 in traffic to #1 and #3.
We expect to complete additional waves later this year in other local markets at various spend levels.
Our objective this year is to continue with our brand awareness campaign to targeted key audience small business segments but to test at various spend levels and media initiatives in different geographies over approximately 6-week burst.
By doing this we are able to continue our transformational messaging as well as gain a better understanding of how our customers react to different scenarios allowing us to more effectively and optimally plan for 2015 and beyond.
Now shifting to our segments.
In Small Business Services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remained sluggish.
We also saw an unexpected severe winter that we know from regional results and also feedback from our small business customers had some adverse impact on our results.
We had strong performance however as revenue grew almost 9%.
Checks were a little short of the high end of our expectations driven by the impact the severe winter weather and a sluggish economy had on small business owners selling through to other businesses and consumers.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call centers improved.
New customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage Referral Program and our direct response campaigns remained strong.
Visitor traffic average order value and conversion rates increased.
Our online Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in Web email marketing and Web-to-print services.
Again we ended the quarter with approximately 785 000 Web hosting customers.
We continued to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices increased slightly to start the quarter in January but then fell off substantially in February and recovered in March mostly reversing the February decline.
But they were still collectively down for the quarter.
Severe winter weather was cited for having an impact on slower consumer spending.
Fewer small business owners expect sales to increase over the next 3 months and hiring plans fell slightly.
They continued to spend more cautiously more in maintenance mode and small businesses continued to scrutinize purchases and experience tight cash flow.
In summary current optimism indices remain sluggish and actually trended lower in the first quarter.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owner's #1 pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings to help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for 2014 is on accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers creating an effective end-to-end integrated technology customer experience effectively acquiring and retaining customers and optimizing sales channel effectiveness and channel marketing capabilities.
In Financial Services we saw the rate of decline of checks perform a little worse than we expected in the high 7% range driven by weakness in both the Northeast and Southeast regions both of which suffered severe winter weather and where we saw double-digit declines in in-branch traffic in many financial institutions as well as we are coming off a difficult compare to the first quarter of 2013 when the decline rate was below 4%.
We ended the quarter in March with a monthly decline rate closer to 6%.
And so far in April we are seeing an even better decline rate of less than 5%.
And so we continue to expect the decline rate for the year will be about 6%.
We implemented a price increase at the start of this year.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong in deals pending in the quarter in excess of 90%.
We simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
We have now extended all our large contracts through at least the third quarter of 2015 including the extension of several for 7 to 8 years.
We also continued to work a number of competitive RFPs.
And we are pleased to announce that we have been selected and are finalizing contract terms for a new large financial institution that we expect to start late in the third quarter that is included in our outlook.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
We now have offers in the targeting and campaign services space through ACTON and Cornerstone to assist financial institutions with customer acquisition and retention; an account activation and anchoring offer in SwitchAgent; and now an account activation and retention rewards and loyalty offer in Destination Rewards.
In the first quarter we saw continued growth in new financial institutions in our ACTON and Cornerstone targeting and campaign services offers.
For SwitchAgent we worked closely with our financial institutions and have implemented product enhancements for pilot offers that will start this quarter that further our vision for the most simple and efficient account switching and anchoring experience for financial institution customers.
Banker's Dashboard also continued to perform well in the first quarter and we are introducing our tablet offer this quarter.
Destination Rewards is off to a good start in the first quarter including initiating implementations with several new large accounts that we expect will scale over the balance of 2014.
As you can see strong momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these marketing solutions and other services in 2014.
In Direct Checks revenue was higher than our expectations driven by higher initial orders and reorders.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers.
We continue to work on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up-sell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
Our Direct Checks expectations for the year are slightly better.
Previously we had guided to a decline of 10% to 11%.
But we now believe the decline will be closer to 10% driven by continued declines in consumer usage and a sluggish economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing costs and SG&amp;A in this segment and deliver operating margins of about 30% while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit the first quarter on the heels of an outstanding quarterly performance and a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe but we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2014.
We believe we are well positioned in 2014 for our fifth consecutive year of revenue growth.
Our broad -- our breadth of offers and financial discipline has enabled us to position ourselves for sustainable revenue growth while continuing to improve profitability and operating cash flow.
Our technologies and sales channels are stronger.
Our digital technology services offer is more mature our infrastructure better and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We know it is critical for us to be able to grow revenue again in 2014 and improve the mix of our marketing solutions and other services revenue and we are well positioned to make this happen.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Now Tracy we're going to open the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Charles Strauzer from CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> Could you add a little bit more color on the new large check customer win that you expect to start in Q3? Is this a regional bank or a national bank? I'm going to leave it as a large financial institution Charlie until we get done with the contract until we can actually put the name or the logo out there.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
But you anticipate maybe I mean some more information maybe on the next call? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Very good.
And then you talked about a growing portfolio of services to small business customers.
And obviously you've been adding some new things like Destination Rewards recently.
When you look at the portfolio today where do you think you need to either expand or add in certain areas to kind of get the portfolio a little bit more complete? I think Charlie let me split it into the 2 largest segments.
So think of it for Small Business Services one of the comments I made about what we're trying to do or focus for 2014 is to really bring the brand and align the brand and the awareness of all the offers that we have there with this what we call an integrated technology customer experience.
So our focus is on bringing all of those offers that we've either organically developed or acquisitively done over the last several years and bring them into a simpler more intuitive offer for our customer base.
So it's less about adding capability there and new things it's more about adding technology capabilities that allow us to integrate those offers and make those suites of offers better for our customers.
It doesn't mean we won't continue to invest and look for other things that make sense as far as new services.
But the focus is on getting those to be more intuitive and effective for our customers.
Now shifting to the Financial Services space we do see more opportunities to -- the primary focus is clearly in the customer activation and retention and acquisition space.
We have added offers there.
We're going to continue to look for other services offers that we believe can add capabilities there.
The good news that we have right now Charlie is that more of those are now coming in the form of organically looking at capabilities that we've had.
We've got a development team now in that organization who is starting to not only come up with enhancements to offers likes SwitchAgent for one and then our tablet solution for Banker's Dashboard.
But they're also looking at along with my product management folks in that segment for other offers and other services that can add to that customer acquisition space.
So I would think there's more opportunity Charlie to bring more new technologies and services to that segment right now in terms of how we're thinking.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Hugen from Feltl.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us some idea of what components of marketing services are driving the largest year-over-year dollar increases in revenue? Yes.
If we go kind of down the 4 categories we had a super quarter in Q1 in the small business market.
And not only do we have again strong growth Randy in the Web-to-print space but we had a really strong quarter in the retail marketing solutions.
And as I've mentioned in my prepared comments we expect that to grow even more as the rest of the year unfolds because we're introducing new e-commerce capabilities and technologies there.
And within the kind of the Web services space the largest areas for expansion are in Web -- that Web hosting and the migrations that we're doing and in the email marketing space would probably be the top 2.
But there's also opportunity in our search engine marketing and search engine optimization space.
And we're adding customers as I mentioned in payroll services as well.
But probably the biggest 2 would be more of the Web hosting and the email marketing space.
And then we're adding fraud -- services in the fraud space.
I mentioned a comment about e-checks.
We're pleased with our progress.
We finally got kind of the core working better the call center working better.
We're now introducing it into some of our other channels.
We've also got a couple of more exciting opportunities.
I'm going to hold on making any further comments yet until we see how some of those things play out in the quarter.
But what I'll tease you with right now Randy is they're in check areas that we're not in today.
So it doesn't do anything on the question of whether we would cannibalize anything on the paper check side with what we're doing with the e-check side.
So we're excited about it.
But I want to leave it at that until we get a little deeper into that into the quarter.
And then finally yes we absolutely expect the scale as we've mentioned the Destination Rewards.
We picked up some new accounts that we were aware of when the acquisition was done in December and the good news there Randy is those are starting to ramp already in the first quarter.
And we expect to see further ramps as we move through the year.
So the great news with that whole portfolio Randy is that we're not dependent on any one area or any one offer.
Yes some are going to grow faster than others we believe.
But the depth and the breadth of what we're offering -- our offerings there we think is going to really help us as we move forward.
And just as a reminder to you Randy the 2 categories that right now in the first quarter are still benefiting from acquisitions are the Web services with VerticalResponse from last year and then the other FI services which is really the Destination Rewards from the end of last year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I'm looking forward to hearing more about the check opportunity in the future.
For Destination Rewards is there anything -- any particular company that you can name? We don't have the liberty to name.
A couple of the names there are -- you would know them in 30 seconds.
So we're just at a point where we're not able to disclose who those names are at this point.
But we're working to get their acknowledgment or support to be able to do that.
And I think when you see who they are and we can talk about them more they'll add more confidence on what we're doing in that whole rewards and loyalty space as we move forward.
So hopefully as we -- I can't say it will be exactly on the next call Randy but as we get -- we work these in a little bit more and get the scale and work with these customers we'll be able to get some of the names released.
Your next question comes from the line of Tim Klasell from Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> So my first question is just really on the large financial institution that you signed on the check side.
Has that contract been signed and you just don't have permission to go public with it? Or are you still in the negotiation phase? We are finalizing it.
We've been informed it is our deal [ph] we are finalizing the contract terms.
I don't expect any issues with getting the contract signed.
But until I get the contract signed both parties have decided it's best not to release the name.
But it's going to happen.
I'm confident in that.
I just got to get the final Ps and Ts done and then we can get it announced.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And we're getting some leverage on the sales and marketing side.
And I'm sort of focusing in on Safeguard.
Is Safeguard all incremental as Safeguard grows? Or are you moving maybe some business into that channel as it's just more efficient? No.
Again one of the great bedrocks I think that we have in terms of our differentiation is our channels.
And so the goal Tim as we told the market is for us to grow in our financial institution channel in our dealer channels our partners that we have our major accounts our online channels and then also in the distributor channel.
So are we going to look -- we're always looking at where we get the lowest cost to acquire across all those channels and obviously targeting to get more efficient as we do that.
But no we're not moving something from one -- a program or an offer from one into another and that includes what we're doing in Safeguard.
We're trying actually to get all of them to grow.
In the Safeguard channel the nice thing about that too is that our distributors are out there still growing through acquisitions which ultimately benefits us.
But we're also able to take some of our offers that originated in other parts of the business like our PsPrint Web-to-print offers.
And we're able to take those to our Safeguard distributors and give them something else to sell.
So we're seeing some really nice traction on both of those fronts.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the brand awareness campaign I mean the results there look pretty fantastic from the traffic.
Can you share with us anything about the monetization of that? Or is it just too early to be able to tell? I think it's too early.
I'm trying to give a little bit more color Tim.
We ran a national campaign kind of just did it for 6 weeks at a time.
We did 3 of them last year as we reported.
And what we're trying to do this year is go into specific targeted cities and do the whole campaign but do it at a more intensive spend levels and different spend levels.
And then although it includes television it includes online digital it includes print trying to change and modify as we do them we're looking to get smarter and smarter at this.
I mean we were pleased with what we did last year.
We're pleased with what we're doing now.
But we want to get smarter and smarter on this.
And that's the approach we're taking and we're committed to doing that as the balance of the year unfolds.
And yes so far it's been very encouraging to see the awareness improve.
We're also going to do a couple of surveys this year.
In fact we just finalized our thinking on that over the last couple of weeks.
And once we get a little further into this I'll describe how we're going to do that.
And obviously we hope to get some learnings for how the awareness is improving and again use that to allow us to continue to target those small businesses and the segments of small business to allow us to improve our revenue growth as we go forward.
Thank you for your question Tim.
I would now like to turn the call over to Lee Schram.
I just like to thank everybody for your participation and thank you for the questions today.
And I want to leave you with 3 summary thoughts.
First we delivered an outstanding first quarter to start the year.
Second marketing solutions and other services revenue grew 21% and the mix improved towards our goal of 25% this year and 40% in 2018.
And we also believe that we established a solid baseline first quarter to propel us towards revenue growth again in 2014 for our fifth consecutive year.
We're going to roll up our sleeves get back to work.
And we look forward to providing another positive progress report on our next earnings call.
And I'm going to turn it back to Ed for some closing housekeeping comments.
Thanks Lee.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to mention that Deluxe management will be participating in a few upcoming events in the second quarter where you can hear more about our transformation.
On May 7 we'll be in the Chicago at the R.W.
Baird Growth Stock Conference.
On May 13 we'll be in New York at the Wedbush Technology Conference.
On June 3 we'll be in New York at the Stephens Spring Investment Conference.
And also on June 3 we'll be in San Francisco at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Technology Conference.
Thank you for joining us.
And that concludes the Deluxe First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
That concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to Quarter 2 2014 Deluxe Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Annette and I will be your coordinator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I will now turn the conference over to Ed Merritt Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Annette and welcome everyone to Deluxe Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
I'm Ed Merritt Deluxe's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me on today's call are Lee Schram our Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson our Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts.
I would like to remind you that comments made today regarding financial estimates projections and management's intentions and expectations regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the press release that we issued this morning as well in the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013.
The financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which was furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K by the company this morning.
The press release is also posted on our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Deluxe delivered another very strong quarter and we are well positioned as we enter the second half of the year to grow revenue for the year 3% to 4% despite a continued sluggish economic environment.
We reported revenue and adjusted earnings per share in the second quarter above the upper end of our outlook.
Revenue grew over 6% compared with the prior year quarter.
Small Business Services revenue grew almost 9%.
Financial Services revenue grew over 6%.
Checks and forms performed well and marketing solutions and other services revenues grew 20% over the prior year and represented over 23% of total second quarter revenue.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew over 5% from the prior year.
We generated solid operating cash flow and we were not drawn on our credit facility during the quarter increasing our balance sheet cash position $26 million from last December.
We announced the quarterly dividend increase of 20% in April and also repurchased $20 million in shares in the quarter bringing our year-to-date repurchase total to $52 million.
We continued our brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and slightly exceeded on our cost reduction expectations for the quarter.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps.
But first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thanks Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of $0.99 which included $0.02 per share for restructuring and transaction-related charges.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $1.01 exceeded the upper end of our previous outlook and was 5.2% higher than the $0.96 reported in the second quarter of 2013.
Restructuring related charges are primarily for infrastructure consolidations and employee severance.
Revenue for the quarter also exceeded the upper end of our previous outlook coming in at $405 million an increase of 6.3% over last year or just over 3% excluding the impact of recent acquisitions.
Small Business Services revenue of $274 million grew 8.7% versus last year with approximately 6% growth in the quarter excluding primarily the VerticalResponse acquisition from last year.
While we continue to operate in a sluggish economic environment we delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services checks and in our online Safeguard distributor and dealer channels.
SBS revenue also benefited from price increases implemented early in the first quarter.
Financial Services revenue of over $88 million grew 6.5% versus the second quarter of last year.
It would've declined less than 1% excluding recent acquisitions.
Price increases higher marketing and other services revenue and revenue from HSBC more than offset the impact of lower check orders.
Direct Checks revenue of $43 million was down 7.3% on a year-over-year basis but ended ahead of our expectations.
From a product revenue perspective checks were $217 million representing 54% of total revenue; business products were $94 million or 23% of total revenue; and marketing solutions and other services were $94 million which was 23% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 64.0% of revenue which was down 1 point from 2013.
Less favorable product mix and the increased material and delivery rates were only partially offset by benefits from price increases improvements in manufacturing productivity and delivery initiatives.
SG&amp;A expense increased $9 million in the quarter was better leveraged at 42.8% of revenue compared to 43.1% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost-reduction initiatives in all 3 segments were offset by increased SG&amp;A associated with recent acquisitions and higher performance-based compensation and medical costs.
Excluding restructuring-related charges adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 21.3% down from 22.1% in 2013.
All 3 segments delivered strong operating margins.
Small Business Services adjusted operating margin of 18.2% was down 0.6 percentage points over last year due to increased SG&amp;A associated with acquisitions.
Financial Services adjusted operating margin of 25.5% was down 1 point from 2013 due to higher expenses in acquisition and amortization associated with the Acton and Destination Rewards acquisition.
Direct Checks adjusted operating margin of 32.3% increased 0.3 points from 2013 driven by better leverage and by expense management initiatives.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement.
We increased our cash and cash equivalents balance year-to-date by $25.8 million despite having repurchased $52 million of common stock through the first half of the year.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $646 million.
Cash provided by operating activities for the first half was $125.8 million a $23.7 million increase compared to the first half of 2013.
The increase was driven primarily by changes in working capital improved earnings and lower medical and performance-based compensation payments partially offset by higher income tax payments.
Capital expenditures for the first 6 months of 2014 were $19.9 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $32.6 million.
Given our strong results in the second quarter we are raising our previous consolidated revenue outlook for the full year to range from $1.635 billion to $1.655 billion.
We are increasing our expectations for adjusted diluted earnings per share to $4.04 to $4.14.
There are several key factors that contribute to a stronger full year outlook including: Small Business Services revenue is expected to increase 7% to 8% as volume declines in core business products are expected to be offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments price increases growth in our distributor dealer and major accounts channels and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings.
We expect Financial Services revenue to be flat to up 1% driven by recurring check order declines of approximately 6% and some pricing pressure which we expect will be at least offset by continued growth from noncheck revenue streams including Destination Rewards higher revenue per order full year of HSBC and a quarter from a new account win; a direct checks revenue decline of approximately 9% which is slightly better than our previous outlook driven by check order volume declines a continued sluggish economy full year cost and expense reductions of approximately $55 million net of investments; increases in medical expenses material cost and delivery rates; continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities; lower interest expense in the fourth quarter; and an effective tax rate of approximately 34%.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows for the full year 2014 outlook to range from $270 million to $280 million.
Versus last year this outlook reflects stronger earnings and lower medical and incentive compensation payments offset by higher tax payments.
We continue to expect full year contract acquisition payments to be approximately $15 million.
2014 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million slightly higher than 2013 as we continue to grow Deluxe.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillments and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $66 million including approximately $20 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the third quarter of 2014 we expect revenue to range from $406 million to $414 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is expected to range from $0.97 to $1.02.
In comparison to the second quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be slightly lower at the midpoint of the range in the third quarter primarily due to expected lower Financial Services and Direct Checks' higher-margin revenue and the resulting flow-through to operating income and higher brand awareness spend.
Shifting to our capital structure.
We expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small- to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our business transformation.
Additionally we expect to continue paying a quarterly dividend.
Year-to-date we have repurchased almost $52 million of common stock compared to $32 million in the first half of 2013.
Although we plan to spend more on share repurchases than we did last year the pace for the balance of the year is expected to be less than the first half level.
In the foreseeable future we plan to allocate more funding to common stock repurchases than we have in prior years.
We also plan to accumulate cash in advance of our October 2014 senior note maturity.
We plan to retire these notes as they come due using cash-on-hand and a draw on our $350 million credit facility.
We may also from time to time consider retiring outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our increasing cash flow strong balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my overall comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had a solid performance in the second quarter as we slightly exceeded our expected cost and expense reductions as far as our $55 million commitment net of investments in 2014.
Approximately 60% of the $55 million in expected reductions will come from sales and marketing; another 30% from fulfillments; and the remaining 10% coming from our Shared Services organizations.
Our focus in sales and marketing for the remainder of 2014 will be on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation and leveraging order streaming and marketing efficiencies.
We also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms drive delivery technology and process efficiencies reduce spoilage further enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for Shared Services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce expenses primarily in IT but we also have opportunities in finance and real estate.
Now I'll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I'll continue my comments with an update on our overall focus and then highlight progress in each of our 3 segments.
I will also include throughout a perspective on what we hope to accomplish during the balance of 2014.
Our primary focus in 2014 continues to be on profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues towards our goal of 40% by 2018.
As part of this revenue growth focus we will continue to assess potential small- to medium-sized acquisition that complement our large customer bases with a focus on marketing solutions and other services.
We have strengthened our channels in small business to include financial institutions online retail wholesale distributors dealers and major accounts.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of a growing suite of products and services to small business needs to market and operate their business and helping small- to midsized financial institutions with customer acquisition risk management and other value-added services.
Here is an update on our 4 subcategories framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We ended the second quarter right in line with our expectations in revenue with mix in the 4 subcategories basically in line with our expectations.
First Small Business marketing is expected to represent approximately 41% in 2014 with expected growth in the high teens this year.
We saw growth in the second quarter in the Web-to-print space as we cross-sold to our customer base and added new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
We will be introducing in the third quarter a new organically-built automated business card and postcard production fulfillment system which we believe will allow us to be more competitive in our Web-to-print channels.
We also saw very strong double-digit growth in retail packaging solutions and expect this growth to continue in the second half of the year.
The second category Web Services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO email marketing social payroll services is expected to represent approximately 31% in 2014 with expected organic growth rate in the low double digits.
We saw solid rollouts in both wholesale web telco and SEM SEO major accounts in the second quarter and also solid growth from the prior year in cross-selling bundled present packages to our retail base and added more new customers resellers and partners.
We continue to be encouraged with sign-ups to paying customers so far for our new email marketing premium offer.
We continue to reduce web design and SEM campaign cycle times and churn rates remain low.
We added payroll services customers and many customers added new features such as time and attendance application.
This category is also one of our key focus areas for tuck-in acquisitions.
We closed the second quarter with approximately 805 000 web hosting customers and we expect to close 2014 with nearly 850 000 web hosting customers an increase of 16% from 2013 as we expect migrations to continue to ramp through the balance of the year.
The third category Fraud Security Risk Management and Operational Services is expected to represent approximately 19% in 2014 with expected growth rates in the low-single digits.
We had a solid second quarter as we added [indiscernible] programmed services for new community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
In April we released our Banker's Dashboard tablet solution which we expect will help secure new financial institutional wins throughout the balance of the year.
We also saw additional orders from our Deluxe e-checks offer.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 9% in 2014 with expected growth rates in the very strong double digits.
In the second quarter we saw growth in new financial institution customers in targeting and campaign services and delivered on expected revenue from Destination Rewards.
We also began piloting our enhanced SwitchAgent 2.0 release in the second quarter which is our automated solution to help consumers switch banking service providers.
We continued to expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $400 million to $410 million in 2014 up from $343 million in 2013 with organic growth in the low-teens.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 25% of revenue up from 22% in 2013 and 19% and 16% the previous 2 years.
Here's an update on our brand awareness campaign.
In late April we finished our first wave of the year of an intense 6-week local market brand awareness campaign targeting to Raleigh North Carolina and Columbus Ohio markets through television online digital and print media.
We saw very strong results in these 2 markets compared against other markets where we did not complete brand awareness initiatives.
We expect to complete additional waves of brand awareness marketing in both the third and fourth quarters in other local markets at various spend level.
As a reminder our objective this year is to continue with our brand awareness campaign to targeted key audience small business segment to test various spend levels and media initiatives in different geographies over approximately 6-week burst.
By doing this we are able to continue our transformational messaging as we gain a better understanding of how our customers react to different scenarios allowing us to more effectively and optimally plan for 2015 and beyond.
In the second quarter we also participated in National Small Business Week with a successful media tour event and participated in a small business Expo in New York City where we received very positive feedback from small business customers.
Now shifting to our segments.
Small Businesses Services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvement as the economic climate for small businesses remained sluggish.
We had strong performance however as revenue grew almost 9%.
Checks and forms met our expectations.
Results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
New customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage referral program and our direct response campaigns remained strong.
Visitor traffic average order value and conversion rates increased.
Our online Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in web email marketing and payroll services as well as growth in SEM SEO and Web-to-print services.
Again we ended the quarter with approximately 805 000 web hosting customers.
Here is an update on e-checks.
In addition to paper checks we continue to slowly see a ramp in selling e-checks to our current small business core customer base.
And we will be adding e-checks to our distributor dealer and major account channels in the second half of the year.
However we are also seeing strong interest in many areas where we do not sell paper checks today.
For example several large financial institutions are assessing their use in treasury commercial online and lockbox areas none of which we produce paper checks for today.
Also companies that issue paper rebate temporary staffing and other payment solution checks today are assessing e-checks including several of these where we have pilots underway.
It is still very early and we continue to focus on building our customer and user awareness as well as working through many operational process and systems hurdles that exist in a very nascent early market.
But we remain optimistic in e-checks as a small business payments offer.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices increased in April and May but as the quarter ended in June there was a bit of a drop-off in optimism.
Pessimism about the economy and the future moderated in the quarter.
Sales expectations trended lower exiting the quarter.
More owners are planning to hire in the coming months and more new firms are starting and failing right now.
Small businesses continue to spend cautiously more in maintenance mode continue to scrutinize purchases and experience tight cash flow.
In summary current optimism indices although still at recessionary levels actually trended higher in the second quarter even with the pullback in June.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owners #1 pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
The economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers.
Deluxe is better positioned as an indispensable partner for growth.
In SBS our focus for 2014 is on accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers creating an effective end-to-end integrated technology customer experience effectively acquiring and retaining customers and optimizing sales channels effectiveness and channel marketing capabilities.
In Financial Services we saw the check decline rate perform slightly better than our expectation a little less than 6% and we continue to expect the decline rate for the year will be about 6%.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current quarter in excess of 90%.
We simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
We have now extended all our large contracts through at least the third quarter of 2015 and now have extended contracts representing about 20% of our annual Financial Services revenue for 7 to 8 years.
We also continue to work a number of competitive RFPs and we are pleased to announce that we anticipate starting in late September the migration of Zion's bank which is the new client that we referenced on our first quarter call.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check market solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
We now have offers in the targeting and campaign services space through ACTON and Cornerstone to assist financial institutions with customer acquisition and retention account activation and anchoring offering SwitchAgent and now an account activation and retention rewards and loyalty offer in Destination Rewards.
In the second quarter we saw continued growth in new financial institutions in our ACTON and Cornerstone targeting and campaign services offers and we introduced a new offering in the market: An alert monitoring capability that helps financial institutions target consumers when they are actively shopping for a loan.
In SwitchAgent we worked closely with our financial institutions and have implemented product enhancements for pilot offers that started in the second quarter that further our vision the most simple and efficient account switching and anchoring experience for financial institution customers.
Banker's Dashboard also continued to perform well in the second quarter including our introduction of our tablet offer.
Destination Rewards had another solid quarter.
We received commitments from 2 large financial institutions that they will commence rewards and loyalty program rollouts starting in the fourth quarter.
Positively we also received a commitment from Verizon that they will be moving from a successful pilot to a full implementation starting this quarter.
Finally we received a commitment from one of the largest insurance companies that they will be implementing in about 50% of the United States a new rewards and loyalty program starting in the fourth quarter.
As you can see strong momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these marketing solutions and other services and Financial Services in 2014.
In Direct Checks revenue was higher than our expectations driven by higher initial orders and reorders.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers.
We continue to work on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and upsell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
Our direct checks expectations for the year are slightly better.
Previously we guided to a decline of 10% but we now believe that the decline will be closer to 9% driven by continued declines consumer usage and a sluggish economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and continue to deliver operating margins of about 30% while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit the second quarter on the heels of a very strong quarterly performance in a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe.
And we have identified many opportunities ahead of us in 2014.
We believe we are well positioned in 2014 to deliver our fifth consecutive year of revenue growth.
The breadth of offers and financial discipline has enabled us to position ourselves for sustainable revenue growth while continuing to improve profitability and operating cash flow.
Our technologies and sales channels are stronger.
Our digital technology services offers more mature our infrastructure better and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We know it is critical for us to be able to grow revenue again in 2014 and improve the mix of our marketing services solutions and other services revenue and we are well positioned to make this happen.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider than primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Now on that we're going to open the phone lines up to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Randy Hugen of Feitl.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It looks like it might be growing faster than maybe you expected.
Could you give us an information on the overall growth rate there? And then also is that growth being driven by those large clients that you mentioned or are there many other small clients that are also adopting that offering? Randy I missed the beginning of the -- you weren't coming through at the beginning of the question.
Could you just repeat it? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
Destination Rewards is that growing faster than what you expected? How fast is it growing? And then also could you give us some information on the type of clients that are driving that? Is that the large client that you mentioned in the script or are there other smaller clients that are all contributing to that growth? Yes right now we clearly expected a ramp as we bought the company in December last year.
So -- and we expected some of the pilots that they introduced Randy to become rollouts.
So think of that as that was our ambition when we bought it and kind of what we planned for as the year unfolded.
So we expected to see a ramp.
I think the thing that's really interesting for us right now though is that we are starting to see some success and larger financial institutions that are committing to either pilots or rollouts at this point in time and we're just getting started there.
We've put a good program in place.
We have a lot of interest in the rewards and loyalty space.
And then Destination Rewards always had customers in other non-financial Services markets and we're just trying to opportunistically take advantage of that.
I made a comment today about an opportunity we had of one of the largest insurance companies and that's starting in the fourth quarter as well.
So we think we're at the early stages of momentum here.
But we had a ramp planned as we went -- as we bought the company.
And clearly we expect that ramp to happen in the second half of the year.
And also extend into the 2015 from a ramp standpoint as well.
So we're really excited about this and we think there's a lot of potential.
And we think it's a unique program with the 0 liability program and something that's not out there in the market place today.
So clearly we are enthused with it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then you've mentioned that you're seeing strong growth in email marketing.
Gmail made some changes in their services a few months ago that seems to be impacting how frequently a customer has been using [ph] some promotional marketing email.
Have you got any impact on that on the rate in the past quarter? No.
The way to think about it is the opportunity for us here is with the new freemium offer that we've got out from our acquisition of VerticalResponse.
We're early stages with the new footprint in the market.
But I look at this and I see the results and week to week Randy we're seeing more and more sign-ups first of all and we see more and more conversions from the premium offer to actually paying customers.
So at this point in time we're seeing a ramp there and we expect that ramp to continue.
The next line of questions comes from the line of Tim Klasell of Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just to circle back on the Destination Rewards.
I noticed that the MSO revenues weren't -- the guidance there wasn't raised but the other revenues were.
Are some of the big new customers that you mentioned in the script does this take a while for them to ramp up? How should we think about that going forward? Tim it does.
We left the range that we had of $400 million to $410 million we raised the top end of the revenue about $500 million it came from non-NOS.
But it does take a while to ramp.
What happens is we -- sometimes a new bank or a Verizon the example we gave or the large insurance company will start a pilot and then they'll roll out.
And even when they do a full rollout it can take time for a consumer to sign up for the various programs.
So even though we're excited about it what we have to be mindful of is what that ramp is actually going to look like.
So we're just obviously trying -- we're learning.
It's still a very new acquisition for us but I don't want to signal that we feel all negative on it.
It's just that the look -- the ramp curve is not something that we're used to at this point in time.
And honestly for DR they are learning in some of these new markets especially in the financial institution space as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then are you adding 50 000 or plan to add 50 000 new hosting customers hosting sites.
What's driving that? Is that new customers or is that existing customers expanding their usage? No.
These would be -- these are all new customers.
So we either get them through accounts that we take over and migrate in or we get them through accounts that we win and then they are basically on organic build.
So they never had a telco or media small business offer Tim is the way to think about it.
So what happens is that we basically add small business customers through what we call an organic program.
It's coming from both.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
And then final question you're adding new Web-to-print capabilities to bring down your cost it sounds like.
Exactly what are you doing there? And is the primary competitor there Vistaprint? They're the largest player in the market as you know.
But there's a lot of other competitors in the market and we are really excited about this.
Let me tell you what we try to do here expand on that a little more color on what I mentioned in the script.
If you think about what we did for the common order fulfillment system basically putting software and mechanical work technology behind how we ship in effect a box of checks or now a flat package of checks.
We've done the same thing and we've been working on this for a while now.
But we created the same thing.
So think of it as an ability to produce business cards and postcards at -- and I call it in a frictionless way where no human intervention.
And I wish I could show you the video.
We didn't put one out onto the release today but I've seen it and it's getting ready as I mentioned to go into production this quarter.
And we think it's going to allow us to get more -- get things through our systems and our process better and to your point give us a cost reduction play as well.
So really a wonderful team of people that I have here in our Shoreview headquarters location or near the location have worked on this capability and kudos to them for what we believe is going to be something exciting for the Web-to-print space.
[Operator Instructions] The next line of question comes from the line of Charlie Strauzer of CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
Why don't we just kind of go on the gross profit line if we could.
I know it was a little bit lower year-over-year for the reason you mentioned.
But as we look at to the second half of the year Terry can you give us a sense of the assumptions we should be using for gross profit versus maybe SG&amp;A as a percent of revenue? Yes in comparison to second quarter of last year we're down about 1 point and there was really a couple of things happening there Charlie.
There was a bit of an unfavorable mix coming through there causing the margin to come down just a little bit.
Also too we have been seeing higher material and delivery rates coming through.
And that's been a pretty consistent trend for the past couple of years so that coming through is also impacting the margins there a little bit.
And both of those factors we would -- we did expect and would continue to expect those going forward as we look ahead.
Inc.</strong> Is that mostly -- when you said delivery is that mostly from the postal increase [ph] that just went through? Postal we use the United States Postal Service.
We also use UPS for a significant portion of our delivery in certain parts of the business.
So it's a collective increase across the whole platform.
Inc.</strong> And as we look out longer term in terms of the operating income growth versus revenue growth obviously it's kind of trailing right now.
But do you think as you implement some of these additional clauses [ph] and stuff that you can see that trend more in line longer term? We -- what we've really stated right now is that we as a team are really committed to delivering growth in our earnings and that's through profitable revenue growth.
But really from a margin rate perspective because we're still investing in the business we really expect that the margin rate is going to be fairly flat over the foreseeable future.
So again our commitment is really on growing the earnings dollars not so much the margin rate as we go ahead.
And then really get back to the level of investments that are offsetting some of the cost reductions that we continue to generate.
But that's probably the best way to think about it for the foreseeable future.
And Charlie I would like to add though that we still do expect to be able to out into the kind of the strategic horizon be able to grow our earnings per share at a faster rate than revenue because of the way we continue to manage the company the transformation between our tax rates and our debt level.
So you need to think about all that.
But we don't want to underinvest now as we're starting to get some real nice scale and we're just going to be -- we're going to stay after our cost reductions and keep the formula going here.
And that's hopefully what we've been talking about and we've been guiding in terms of people that are interested in the stock.
Inc.</strong> That's very helpful.
And if I can circle back for a second on the PsPrint side.
You mentioned Lee in terms of finding other products to offer your direct check customers is there a plan to maybe integrate some of the PsPRint type of offerings into that type of strategy? Yes I'll talk a little bit more as we get into the third quarter about where we're going with this what I mentioned this integrated technology customer experience.
I prefer to not make a lot more comments on that.
I know there's a lot of my competitors are out there and wondering what we're talking about here.
But the best I can tell you right now is think of it as a way for a customer to come in and get with -- intuitively and simply add our services and add our print offers in a just lot easier way than the way we do it today from all of these acquisitions that we've done over time.
It's got really cool technology that my team is working on and we're excited about it.
I think it's a little early to spend a lot more color on it but as we get into the balance of the year similar to what I did today on e-checks and we'll be talking a little bit more about Destination Rewards I'll try to get some more color on that as well Charlie.
Thank you for your questions.
I would thank you for all your questions ladies and gentlemen.
That now concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Lee Schram for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thanks Annette and thanks everybody for your participation and for your questions today.
I'd just like to summarize the quarter in 3 points: We believe we delivered a very strong second quarter; second marketing solutions and other services revenue grew 20% and our mix improved towards our goal of 25% for this year and 40% in 2018; we had a solid first half of the year which we believe propels us towards revenue growth again in 2014 for our fifth consecutive year.
We're not going to roll up our sleeves we're going to get back to work and I look forward to providing another positive progress report on our next call.
I'm going to turn it over to Ed for some announcements on where we're going to be out in the street in the quarter and some other housekeeping.
Thanks Lee.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to mention that the Deluxe management will be presenting in a few upcoming conferences in the second -- in the third quarter where you can hear more about our transformation.
On August 5 we will be in New York City at the Needham Interconnect Conference.
On August 6 we will be at an investment conference in Minneapolis.
And on September 16 we'll be in New York at the Credit Suisse Small Cap Conference.
Thank you for joining us and this concludes the Deluxe second quarter 2014 earnings call.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Thank you.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Deluxe Corporate Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sarah and I'll be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] Just as a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Ed Merritt Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Sarah and welcome everyone to Deluxe Corporation's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
I'm Ed Merritt Deluxe's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations and joining me on today's call are Lee Schram our Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson our Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks Lee Terry and I will take your -- take questions from analysts.
I'd like to remind you that comments made today regarding financial estimates projections and management's intentions and expectations regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the press release that we issued this morning as well as the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013.
In addition the financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today's press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor.
This information was also furnished to the SEC on the Form 8-K filed by the company this morning.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I'll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
We delivered our third outstanding quarter this year and are well positioned to grow revenue for the full year 5% despite a continued sluggish economic environment.
If achieved 2014 will represent the fifth consecutive year of revenue growth.
The last time we achieved 5 consecutive years of revenue growth dates back 18 years to 1996.
We reported revenue in the third quarter near the upper end of our outlook and adjusted earnings per share exceeded the high end of our outlook.
Revenue grew almost 4% over the prior year quarter driven by Small Business Services revenue growth of over 7%.
Checks and forms performed well and marketing solutions and other services revenues grew over 19% over the prior year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew over 7% over prior year.
We generated strong operating cash flow and we were not drawn on our credit facility during the quarter increasing our balance sheet cash position $67 million from last December.
We also repurchased over $8 million of common shares in the quarter and have repurchased $60 million year-to-date.
Today we are also announcing that we closed the acquisition of Wausau Financial Systems which will enhance our marketing solutions and other services' offers and capabilities in our Financial Services segment.
We continued our brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and for the second quarter in a row exceeded our cost reduction commitment in the quarter.
As a result we now expect our cost reductions to be $60 million for the full year which is $5 million higher than our previous outlook.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps.
But first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thanks Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of $0.88 which included $0.09 per share for noncash asset impairment charges and $0.06 per share for restructuring charges.
Excluding these costs EPS adjusted of $1.03 exceeded the upper end of our previous outlook and was 7.2% higher than the $0.96 reported in the third quarter of 2013.
The asset impairment charges related to intangible assets in the Small Business Services segment specifically associated with our SEM/SEO business and the restructuring charges are for primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $413 million and grew 3.8% over last year or approximately 2% excluding the impact of recent acquisitions.
Small Business Services revenue of $285 million grew 7.2% versus last year with approximately 6% growth in the quarter excluding acquisitions.
While we continue to operate in a weak Small Business economic environment we delivered growth in checks and in marketing solutions and other services and in our online Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels.
Financial Services revenue of $86 million declined 0.9% versus the third quarter of last year and would have declined about 7% excluding recent acquisitions.
The impact of lower check orders was more than offset by benefits of higher revenue per order.
Direct Checks' revenue totaled $43 million which was down 6.9% on a year-over-year basis but ended ahead of our expectations.
From a products and services revenue perspective checks were $218 million and represented 53% of total revenue; business products were $93 million or 22% of total revenue; and marketing solutions and other services were $102 million which was 25% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 63.7% of revenue which was down 0.6 points from 2013.
Less favorable product mix and increased material and delivery rates were only partially offset by benefits from price increases earlier in the year and improvements in manufacturing productivity and delivery initiatives.
SG&amp;A expense increased $2.3 million in the quarter but was better leveraged at 42.5% of revenue compared to 43.6% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost-reduction initiatives in all 3 segments were offset by increased SG&amp;A associated with recent acquisitions and higher performance-based compensation.
Excluding restructuring and impairment charges adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 21.2% which was up 0.4 points from the 20.8% generated in 2013.
All 3 segments delivered strong operating margins.
Small Business Services' adjusted operating margin of 18.2% was up 0.3 points over last year due to cost-reduction initiatives.
Financial Services' adjusted operating margin of 24.6% was up 0.8 points from 2013 due to higher revenue per order better product and services mix and cost reductions.
Direct Checks' adjusted operating margin of 34.3% increased 2.2 points from 2013 driven by expense management initiatives.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements.
We increased our cash and cash equivalents balance year-to-date by $66.9 million after having repurchased $60 million of our common stock.
Total debt at the end of the quarter was $645 million.
Cash provided by operating activities for the first 3 quarters of the year was $203.3 million slightly exceeding our expectations and up nearly $19.3 million from 2013.
The increase was driven primarily by changes in working capital improved earnings and lower medical and performance-based compensation payments partially offset by higher income tax payments.
Capital expenditures for the first 3 quarters were $29.6 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $48.5 million.
On October 22 we acquired all the outstanding shares of Wausau Financial Systems including specific tax attributes which are expected to generate approximately $4 million of incremental cash tax savings for a net $90 million using a draw on our credit facility.
During the remainder of 2014 the acquisition is expected to generate revenue of approximately $12 million; be approximately $0.01 dilutive to EPS after absorbing acquisition related amortization expense; and generate positive operating cash flow.
Given our strong performance in the third quarter the addition of Wausau Financial Systems and adjusting for the unfavorable impact from a stronger U.S.
dollar which causes a negative impact for us from foreign exchange rates we are raising our consolidated revenue outlook range for the year to $1.657 billion to $1.665 billion.
We are also improving our adjusted diluted earnings per share to an expected range of $4.08 to $4.14 which excludes $0.22 related to restructuring impairment and transaction-related costs.
There are several key factors that contribute to our improved full year outlook including Small Business Services revenue is expected to increase 7% to 8% as volume declines in core business products and the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rate changes are expected to be offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments; price increases; growth in our distributor dealer and major accounts channels; and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings.
We expect Financial Services' revenue to be up about 5% driven by recurring check order declines of approximately 6% and some pricing pressure which we expect will be more than offset by continued growth from noncheck revenue streams including Destination Rewards and Wausau Financial Systems higher revenue per order a full year of HSBC and a quarter from Zions.
The Direct Checks revenue decline of approximately 8% which is slightly better than our previous outlook driven by check volume reductions a continued sluggish economy full year cost and expense reductions of approximately $60 million which is $5 million higher than our previous outlook increases in medical expenses material costs and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities lower interest expense in the fourth quarter and an effective tax rate of approximately 34%.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows and with the acquisition of Wausau have raised our full year outlook to range from $278 million to $285 million.
Versus last year this outlook also reflects stronger earnings and lower medical and incentive compensation payments offset by higher tax payments.
We now expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $19 million for the full year.
2014 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million slightly higher than 2013 as we continue to grow Deluxe.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillments and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $66 million for the year including $21 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the fourth quarter of 2014 we expect revenue to range from $432 million to $440 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $1.06 to $1.12.
In comparison to the third quarter revenue is expected to be higher in the fourth quarter primarily due to seasonal holiday spending tax forms some small business healthcare forms rollout plus a continued ramp in marketing solutions and other services revenue including again $12 million from the Wausau Financial Systems acquisition.
Adjusted EPS is expected to increase primarily from higher revenue.
Shifting to our capital structure.
We expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small- to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
Additionally we expect to continue paying a quarterly dividend.
Year-to-date we have repurchased $60.1 million of common stock compared to $48.8 million during the full year of 2013.
As communicated last quarter our plan for share repurchases is to spend more than we did in 2013 but we expect that the pace in the last half of 2014 will be less than the first half.
On October 1 our 2004 senior notes matured and were repaid using cash on hand and an initial draw of $135 million on our $350 million credit facility.
We also used our credit facility to fund the Wausau acquisition.
As of yesterday October 22 we had $208 million drawn against our credit facility which we expect to reduce by year end using cash generated from strong fourth quarter operating activities.
Looking ahead we may from time to time consider retiring outstanding debt through open market repurchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our increasing cash flow strong balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid performance in the third quarter as we exceeded on our expected costs and expense reductions for the second quarter in a row.
As a result we have increased our outlook for the year from our original $55 million annual commitment to $60 million net of investments in 2014.
Year-to-date we have already achieved approximately $48 million in reductions.
Approximately 60% of the $60 million in expected reductions will come from sales and marketing another 30% from fulfillment and the remaining 10% coming from our Shared Services organizations.
Our focus on sales and marketing for the remainder of 2014 will be on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation and leveraging order streaming and marketing efficiencies.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms drive delivery technology and process efficiencies reduce spoilage further enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for Shared Services infrastructure we expect to continue reducing expenses in IT but we also have opportunities in finance and real estate.
Now I'll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on our key revenue growth area marketing solutions and other services including some details on our Wausau acquisition and provide an update on our brand awareness campaign.
I will then highlight progress in each of our 3 segments including a perspective on what we hope to accomplish in the fourth quarter and finally provide some context looking forward to 2015.
Our primary focus for the balance of the year continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues towards our goal of 40% by 2018.
As part of this revenue growth focus we will continue to assess potential small- to medium-sized acquisitions that complement our large customer bases with a focus on marketing solutions and other services.
We are adding more products and services to our portfolio and we continue to strengthen our channel reach.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of a growing suite of products and services a Small Business needs to market and operate their business.
And helping financial institutions with customer acquisition risk management and now with acquisition of Wausau with a comprehensive suite of payment software services and outsourcing solutions.
Here is an update on our 4 subcategories framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We ended the third quarter right in line with our expectations in revenue with mix in the 4 subcategories basically in line with our expectations.
First Small Business marketing is expected to represent approximately 40% of revenue in 2014 with expected growth approximately 20% this year.
We saw growth in the third quarter in the Web-to-print space as we cross-sold to our customer base and added new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
We expect to ramp production in the fourth quarter on our new organically built automated business card and postcard production fulfillment system.
We also saw very strong digit growth in retail packaging solutions and expect this growth to continue in the fourth quarter.
We also expect to begin a logo promotional marketing and apparel rollout with a large hotel chain including franchises in the fourth quarter that we expect will ramp further in 2015.
The second category web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO e-mail marketing social and payroll services is expected to represent approximately 29% of revenue in 2014 with expected growth rates in the low double digits.
We saw solid rollouts in wholesale web help build major accounts in the third quarter and also solid growth from the prior year in cross-selling bundled presents packages to our retail base and added more new customers resellers and partners.
We released our pay-as-you-go capability as part of our e-mail marketing premium offer and continue to see an encouraging sign-up ramp.
Also importantly we have assessed our progress in the SEM/SEO space and have made the decision to exit some unprofitable revenue in this offer given the changing landscape and heavy influence of Google in this market space.
This will have a small impact on both fourth quarter and go-forward revenue but our decision will improve overall profitability.
We continue to reduce web design and SEM's campaign cycle times and churn rates remain low.
We added payroll services customers and many customers added new features such as time and attendance applications.
This category web services is also one of our key focus areas for tuck-in acquisitions.
We closed the third quarter with approximately 830 000 web hosting customers and we expect to close 2014 with nearly 850 000 web hosting customers an increase of 16% from 2013 as we expect migrations to continue through the balance of the year.
The third category fraud security risk management and operational services are expected to represent approximately 19% of revenue in 2014 with expected growth rates in the low-single digits.
We had a solid third quarter as we added program services for new community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
We added Banker's Dashboard customers as well.
Further although still small at this point we did have our highest quarterly revenue for e-checks including seeing our first reorder cycles.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 12% of revenue in 2014 with very strong double-digit expected growth rates.
In the third quarter we saw growth in new financial institution customers in targeting and campaign services and Destination Rewards revenue exceeded expectations.
We also drove a quarterly profit in the third quarter for the first time in Destination Rewards and now expect total year revenue to be closer to $19 million up from our previous $15 million outlook and expect our yearend exit run rate to be closer to $25 million for 2015.
We have signed up a very large national financial institution on our new SwitchAgent 2.0 release which is our automated solution to help consumers switch banking service providers.
Going forward this category will also include Wausau Financial Systems.
Here are some color on our latest acquisition.
Wausau offers a comprehensive suite of payment software services and outsourcing solutions including integrated receivables remote deposit capture and paperless in-brand solutions.
The Financial Services industry continues to evolve from a preference for in-house deployments to SaaS and business process outsourcing or BPO deployments.
As a result of this ongoing evolution Wausau Financial Systems' SaaS and BPO revenue has quadrupled in the past 4 years.
And with this trend expected to accelerate even more in the future we believe this creates a growth opportunity going forward.
Although the market for revenue in these services is expected to grow in the low single digits they have seen higher growth this year and we expect to see growth rates in the next several years in the mid- to high single digits.
Again we expect revenue for the balance of 2014 to be approximately $12 million and expect this to be about $0.01 dilutive to EPS this year.
Next year we expect revenue to be approximately $80 million and expect it to be dilutive about $0.04 per share but diluted in total less than a year so accretive by the fourth quarter of 2015.
Strategically this acquisition strengthens Deluxe's commitment to the financial institution market marking a meaningful step forward in our evolution to become a more diverse provider of Financial Services FinTech technology solutions to our financial institution clients.
Importantly this enables Deluxe to generate revenue growth in both the retail and commercial sides of the financial institution industry competing in 2 of the 3 legs of the industry stool with wealth/asset management being the third.
We believe this provides us with a sizable sticky growing annuitized services business.
In addition to our focus today on the retail side of financial institutions this gives us an entry point into the commercial and treasury side helping us not only to diversify through a close adjacency and strong relationships that we already have with financial institutions but also with very strong SaaS solutions.
They have award-winning industry-leading offers in integrated receivables remote deposit capture and paperless in-brand solutions.
Notably their integrated receivables solution leverages data and analytics across the spectrum of payment types to provide enhanced receivables decision support.
As a Central Wisconsin-based company we also believe there will be a strong cultural fit.
Their largest customers include many of our current customers on the check side including Bank of New York U.S.
Bank Citi and Fifth Third among others.
They have relationships with 9 of the top 10 financial institutions and more than 250 financial institution clients as well as they also sell through government telcos retailers health and insurance companies where we also have relationships that help with access to small business customers.
In summary with access to a proven player and growing markets this acquisition enhances Deluxe's competitive position as a FinTech provider gives us more swings at the plate with our financial institution clients and will increasingly increase marketing solutions and other services revenue mix.
We are really excited about this acquisition and welcome Wausau employees to the Deluxe team.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $420 million in 2014 up from $343 million in 2013 with organic growth in the low double digits.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 25% of revenue up from 22% in 2013 and 19% and 16% the previous 2 years.
Here is an update on our brand awareness campaign.
We just finished in October our final wave of the year of an intense 6-week local market brand awareness campaign targeting the Chicago Cleveland Milwaukee and Minneapolis/St.
Paul markets through television online digital and print media.
We saw very strong results in these markets compared against other markets where we did not complete brand awareness initiatives.
For example in Chicago we saw a 474% lift and in Minneapolis/St.
Paul a 608% lift in online traffic.
As a reminder our objective this year is to continue with our brand awareness campaign to targeted key Small Business audiences and to test at various spend levels and media initiatives in different geographies over approximately 6-week burst.
By doing this we are able to continue our transformational messaging as well as gain a better understanding of how our customers react to different scenarios allowing us to more effectively and optimally plan for 2015 and beyond.
In the third quarter we also participated in the Annual SCORE Awards recognition program for small businesses as well as the Entrepreneurial Women's Conference hosted by the Women's Business Development Center that is attended by over 2 000 women business owners.
Now shifting to our segments.
Small Business Services in the quarter as expected did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remained sluggish.
We had strong performance as revenue grew over 7%.
Checks and forms met our expectations.
Results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
New customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage Referral Program and through our direct response campaigns remained strong.
Average order value and conversion rates increased.
Our online Safeguard distributor major accounts and dealer channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw strong growth in web Web-to-print and payroll services as well as growth in e-mail marketing.
Again we ended the quarter with approximately 830 000 web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the Small Business market.
Optimism indices in the third quarter were up slightly from second quarter readings sliding slightly in July and August and falling back in September.
Pessimism about the economy and the future moderated in the quarter.
The outlook for expansion continued to be positive along with sales expectations.
More owners hired in the third quarter and are planning to hire in the fourth quarter and more new firms are starting than failing right now.
Small businesses continue to spend cautiously more in maintenance mode and continue to scrutinize purchases and experience tight cash flow.
In summary current optimism indices although still at recessionary levels trended slightly higher in the third quarter even with the pullback in September.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owner's #1 pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
In Small Business Services our focus for the remainder of 2014 is on accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers creating an effective end-to-end integrated technology customer experience effectively acquiring and retaining customers and optimizing sales channel effectiveness and channel marketing capabilities.
In Financial Services we saw the check decline rate perform just over 6% and we continue to expect the decline rate for the year will be approximately 6%.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remained strong and deal spending in the current quarter well in excess of 80%.
The Zions migration went well a few weeks ago and we are working several more competitive opportunities.
We simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
With approximately 90% of our 2014 community bank contract renewals already completed by the end of the third quarter we are well ahead of the linear pace for the year.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check Marketing Solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
We now have offers in the targeting and campaign services space through ACTON and Cornerstone to assist financial institutions with customer acquisition and retention; an account activation and anchoring offer in SwitchAgent; an account activation and retention rewards and loyalty offer in Destination Rewards and now through the Wausau acquisition a comprehensive suite of payment software services and outsourcing solutions including integrated receivables remote deposit capture and paperless in-brand solutions.
In the third quarter we saw continued growth in new financial institutions in our ACTON and Cornerstone targeting and campaign services offers.
For SwitchAgent we began 2.0 pilots with financial institutions that further our vision for the most simple and efficient account switching and anchoring experience for financial institution customers.
Banker's Dashboard also continued to perform well in the third quarter.
Destination Rewards had another strong quarter again exceeding our expectations driven primarily by the success of the Verizon roll out.
As you can see strong momentum continues to build and we expect strong double-digit growth in these Marketing Solutions and other services in 2014.
In Direct Checks revenue was higher than our expectations driven by higher initial orders and reorders.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers.
We continue to work on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up-sell capabilities as well as synergistic costs and expense reductions.
Our Direct Checks revenue expectations for the year are slightly better.
Previously we guided to a revenue decline rate of 9% but we now believe the revenue decline rate will be closer to 8% driven by continued declines in consumer usage in a sluggish economy.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing costs and SG&amp;A in this segment and continue to deliver operating margins in the lower 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit the third quarter on the heels of another outstanding quarterly performance in a continued challenging economy we made good progress again in transforming Deluxe but we still have a lot of work and opportunities ahead of us.
We are continuing to prudently plan that the economic climate will not improve in the fourth quarter.
We believe we are well-positioned in 2014 to deliver our fifth consecutive year of revenue growth.
Our breadth of offers and financial discipline has enabled us to position ourselves for sustainable revenue growth while continuing to improve profitability and operating cash flow.
Our technologies and sales channels are stronger.
Our digital technology services offer is more mature.
Our infrastructure better and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We know it is critical for us to be able to grow revenue again in 2014 and improve the mix of our marketing solutions and other services revenue and we are well-positioned to make this happen.
We have delivered a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming to Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Looking ahead to 2015 our portfolio is even better positioned to deliver continued sustainable revenue growth.
We are planning for what we expect to be a sixth consecutive year of revenue growth.
We expect the increase in 2015 revenue to be approximately 5% to 7% including the Wausau acquisition or around 2% to 4% organic growth compared to 2014 adjusting for the portion of SEM/SEO revenue we are exiting.
This is expected to produce adjusted diluted per share growth -- EPS growth ranging from approximately 5% to 8% including the expected $0.04 per share dilution from the Wausau acquisition.
With the assumption we will invest more in brand awareness including tying-in branding efforts with our 100 company anniversary initiatives benefit from a significant reduction in interest expense and with the tax rate in 2015 roughly comparable to 2014.
To give some more color on our revenue thinking we are planning on consumer checks through financial institutions to decline approximately 6% on a secular basis.
On top of this we have extended all large financial institution clients through at least 2015 with the exception of one that we are working to extend that comes due in the fourth quarter of 2015.
And we have about the same community bank contract dollars up for renewal in 2015 compared to 2014.
And as mentioned earlier we have more competitive opportunities coming due through 2015.
In business products we expect to expand existing organic initiatives in Shop Deluxe our Canadian business and to add Safeguard distributors dealers and major accounts.
In Marketing Solutions and other services we expect organic revenue growth roughly in the low double digits in spite of a decline in SEM/SEO revenue given my earlier comments about exiting some unprofitable SEM/SEO business -- or offer.
To give some more color on our thinking if we annualized 2014 expected revenue organically grow roughly in the low double digits and adding revenue from the Wausau acquisition this would imply a targeted marketing -- and marketing solutions and other services revenue to total revenue mix of approximately 30% for the year.
We are excited with our progress here.
And with a more cooperative economy and continued possible additional tuck-in acquisitions as catalyst we could potentially grow marketing solutions and other services even faster toward our goal of 40% of revenue mix by 2018.
We also expect our cost and expense reduction initiatives to continue in 2015.
From a housekeeping standpoint each quarter in 2015 with the exception of the third quarter which has one more day has the same number of business days as 2014.
As a reminder we renewed a large financial institution check contract in early second quarter 2014 at a lower price and therefore we expect the more challenging EPS compare year-over-year in the first quarter of 2015 since the higher price contract was still in place in the first quarter of 2014.
It is also extremely important for us to see how the fourth quarter progresses and to closely monitor the marketplace and the economy over the next 3 months before providing a more specific outlook detail for 2015.
Now we're going to open the call up for Terry Ed and I to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question here comes from Charlie Strauzer from CJS Securities.
Inc.</strong> The question I have I guess is more of kind of a more macro question for you Lee.
And that's with the acquisition now of Wausau are you signaling that you're kind of happy with the portfolio more on the kind of Small Business side and now there's some opportunities that you want take advantage of in the Financial Services space to kind of add these kinds of services and the technologies kind of going forward? Or are you just saying this is -- was opportunistic and it's just another way to kind of expand that second segment? No Charlie.
The way to think about it is we've been talking about the opportunity to continue to build on and grow in the Financial Services space.
So when Ed Terry and I are out in the road one of the consistent messages we've been talking about is we -- we're -- we feel good about where we're going and we're still looking to invest and still looking at acquisition opportunities in Small Business Services.
But the tipping point to get the company to grow even faster is getting the Financial Services segment to grow as well.
And so we've been looking and we added the Destination Rewards play in December and now adding the Wausau play.
So again I think it's very much in line with what we've been saying.
We continue to be extremely enthusiastic about Small Business continue to look for opportunities there to get our technology better.
In the prepared comments you've heard me talk about that being our focus area still for small- to mid-sized tuck-in acquisitions.
So hopefully that gives you a sense of how we're thinking about it.
And I think it's very consistent with what we've talked about.
Inc.</strong> Yes that's very helpful actually.
And I think it kind of gives you a better picture of that small businesses kind of showing you the growth that you'd like.
You're more comfortable there.
And it sounds like there's some pretty good opportunities facing you now here on Financial Services.
And kind of taking it from there I mean in Small Business I know one of the things that was -- has been discussed over the last couple of years has been you get to a certain point where you can start to cross-sell more up-sell more taking just your basic check customer and then providing them with more services they may not have known were available through Deluxe.
Where are you today versus maybe a couple of years ago in that kind of product life cycle or sales cycle I should say? Charlie we're getting better and better but I think the exciting thing for us is we believe we still have a nice opportunity here.
If you again listened to some of my comments in the prepared remarks around this integrated end-to-end customer technology experience we're working on this.
We've been working on it.
And we think this is going to be an opportunity to pull a lot of those offers that we have in the services space as well as in the print space together over time and make it easier -- I use the word simple and intuitive for our Small Business customer to really get at whatever they want whether it's a logo or a web design or a website or e-mail marketing social.
So we're working on that.
We'll talk more about that as we exit the year this year and on the fourth quarter call.
But we got a lot of room to go here and again I think that bodes very well for us and leaves us again with the level of confidence that we're on the right track and we've got an opportunity to continue to get the cross-sell to be stronger.
Our next question comes from Randy Hugen from Feltl Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to clarify on the I guess initial 2015 guidance.
On the EPS growth rate is that a GAAP earnings growth rate? Or is that also GAAP and adjusted? Well that growth rate is from the adjusted EPS.
It's kind of anchoring off the 2014 adjusted EPS and it's the growth rate off of that.
And at this point that would represent our views on both GAAP and adjusted for 2015.
But it clearly is anchored off of the 2014 adjusted.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right that's helpful.
And so despite I guess a 1% headwind from the Wausau acquisition you're still hoping to grow earnings faster than revenue next year? Yes.
On the top end by about 1 percentage point is what we signaled.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Perfect.
And then on the asset impairment and the I guess revenue reduction for SEM/SEO that's just one particular part of the business.
You're still planning on continuing those activities for the rest of the business and this is just a particular product that you're shutting down? Let me give you a little more color here Randy.
We're still -- we still believe in the SEM/SEO space.
It's an important part of our portfolio but when you look at all the elements that we were going after the market whether it's we call it enterprise space a direct space white label areas reseller areas how we get at Small Business there were parts of that that we -- were proving to be unprofitable for us.
And then as the algorithms with Google have changed over time we've been at this for a while and just decided this is not making sense for us.
And this isn't a big amount of revenue but yes we still believe in the space need the space important part of our portfolio.
And -- but again at this point in time we're getting -- we're basically think of it as stepping away from some of the unprofitable revenues part of that collective offer.
Yes.
And just to be clear too Randy.
I mean we are not paring back on the product offering or the technology that we used to deliver that product so that's still all going to be an important part of our portfolio.
It's one of the channels where we're going.
Channels exactly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess related to both some of those offerings as well as your broader check offering.
Obviously we've seen kind of a steady stream of these data breaches over the past year and that's probably somewhat helpful for the check business.
Have you seen any negative impact on renewal rates on some of your subscription products to your customers as a result? No no.
We haven't seen any impact or any negativity at all Randy.
All right.
Great.
We do have time for one more question and it comes from Tim Klasell from Northland Securities.
Research Division</strong> First question has to go with the Wausau acquisition.
Clearly it's a little bit dilutive but on an earnings basis.
But how about on a cash flow basis? How should we be thinking about that? And will there be any change to the seasonality around that as this looks like it might be a business that might be a little bit more back-end weighted in the year? How should we think about that? From a cash flow basis it's the amortization from all of the purchase accounting that kind of creates the dilution on an EPS basis.
But on a cash flow basis this for us will be accretive on a cash flow basis really right out of the gate just beginning here in the fourth quarter and certainly continuing into next year.
And that positive cash flow that is not just because of those tax attributes that we said would create the positive cash tax savings of $4 million.
It's the normal operations that will generate positive cash flow on top of those tax attributes.
So that piece is good.
That business we don't expect it to have a significant impact on seasonality.
It's more of a SaaS base so there's monthly recurring revenue streams that come in from that business.
So we don't see it -- aside from the fact that we just have one quarter of that business that will be part of our results for 2014 but going forward we don't see that having a big impact on seasonality.
And Tim remember we are a company that just believes in fully allocating and burdening everything back.
We generally don't as you know play games with adjusted EBITDAs and all this stuff.
So we have to swallow the acquisition amortization and we go through a rigorous process to do that.
We're actually excited.
We think there's a very short period of dilution at roughly call it a year or slightly less than a year.
So in terms of things that are out there and the things that are as you know pretty expensive in the market we think we got a -- we think we did well with this deal.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on that rigorous analysis you guys are obviously shutting down a business that is not as profitable as you would like it to be.
Can you give us any sort of a framework of how you think about that? Because you do -- I'm sure you look at other portions of your business on a regular basis.
Is there a threshold you have as far as profitability? Or I don't know maybe you can walk us through that a little bit.
Yes.
First of all Tim we're not shutting the whole business down.
Again back to the comments that Randy asked and try to clarified here we're -- it's parts of how we go-to-market in the various channels we go-to-market.
And some of those channels are just -- were proving to be unprofitable for us.
And so we looked at that.
We've been at it.
And obviously a goal that we have at anything that we do is to make money at it.
So yes we're -- if there is something else that wouldn't be doing well we would always look to assess take action and move through something.
But right now there's nothing else that's in our portfolio.
This is -- by the way also you're newer to the story but we -- when we bought these businesses over time they were never expected to be high-profit margin businesses but we needed them as part of our complete offer for services to that Small Business.
So unfortunately this just became a little bit teetering in the wrong direction too much for us to stomach in.
And again not big revenues but just an area we just thought doesn't make sense for us to be targeting anymore and not really required for us in terms of what we're doing.
All right great.
We have no time for further questions so I'll turn the call back over to Lee Schram for closing remarks.
Thank you everybody for your participation today and also for your questions and let me leave you with 4 thoughts: first we delivered our third outstanding quarter this year; second we are now positioned to deliver our fifth consecutive year of revenue growth; third we added Wausau Financial Systems which enhances our marketing solutions and other services portfolio; and fourth we have established a solid foundation to grow revenue again in 2015.
We're now going to roll up our sleeves get back to work and we look forward to providing a positive progress report on our next earnings call.
And I'm going to turn it over to Ed for some final housekeeping.
Thanks Lee.
Before we conclude today's call I'd just like to mention that Deluxe management will be participating at a few upcoming events in the fourth quarter where you can hear more about our transformation.
On November 11 and 12 we'll be in New York at the Barclays SMid Cap Conference; on November 18 and 19 we'll be at the UBS Global Technology Conference in Sausalito California; and finally on December 3 and 4 we'll be in Scottsdale at the Credit Suisse 18th Annual Technology Conference.
Thank you for joining us and this concludes the Deluxe Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2014 Deluxe Corporation Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Shaun and I'll be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are on listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Merritt Treasurer and Vice President to Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Shaun and welcome everyone to Deluxe Corporation's fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
I’m Ed Merritt the Treasurer and Vice President Investor Relations.
Joining me on today’s call are Lee Schram our Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson our Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of today’s prepared remarks Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts.
I’d like to remind you that comments made today regarding financial estimates projections and management's intentions and expectations regarding the Company's future performance are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the press release that we issued this morning as well as the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013.
The financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today’s press release which was posted on our Investor Relations Web site at deluxe.com/investor.
This information was also furnished to the SEC on Form 8-K filed by the Company this morning.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Deluxe delivered our fourth outstanding quarter of 2014.
We reported revenue and adjusted earnings per share well above the high-end of our outlook.
Revenue grew more than 7% over the prior year quarter driven by financial services growth of almost 22% and small business services grow of 6%.
Marketing solutions and other services revenues grew over 30% over the prior year and represented over 30% of total fourth quarter revenue.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew more than 14% over the prior year.
We generated strong operating cash flow of $280 million for the year and we were drawn $160 million on our credit facility at year-end.
We did not repurchase any common shares in the quarter.
But we purchased $60 million for the year.
We continue our brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and delivered on our $60 million cost reduction commitment.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps.
But first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of $1.16 which included $0.03 per share collectively for restructuring charges a loss on the sale leaseback and transaction cost.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $1.19 exceeded the upper-end of our previous outlook and was 14.4% higher than the $1.04 reported in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The restructuring charges are for primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations the loss on the sale leaseback related to a facility in our direct check segment and the transaction charge was primarily related to the Wausau Financial Systems acquisition.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $449 million growing 7.3% over last year and 8% sequentially from last quarter.
All three of our business segments performed well compared with our expectations.
Small business services revenue of $301 million grew 5.8% versus last year despite continuing sluggish economic environment and an unfavorable Canadian exchange rate.
We delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services checks and in our online Safeguard distributor and dealer channels.
Financial Services revenue of $105 million grew 21.5% versus the fourth quarter of last year and would have declined less than 5% excluding recent acquisitions.
Higher marketing solutions and other services revenue driven by Wausau and Destination Rewards price increases and revenue from Zions more than offset the impact of lower check orders and the impact on pricing from a large customer contract renewal in early 2014.
Direct Checks revenue of $42 million was down 9.2% on a year-over-year basis.
From a product revenue perspective checks were $213 million representing 48% of total revenue.
Business products were $100 million or 22% of total revenue and marketing solutions and other services were $136 million which was 30% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 63.1% of revenue which was down 0.5 points from 2013.
The decline was primarily driven by an unfavorable product revenue mix and higher material and delivery rates partially offset by a favorable services revenue mix.
SG&amp;A expense increased $13.8 million in the quarter which was 42.8% of revenue compared to 42.7% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost-reduction initiatives in all three segments were more than offset by increased SG&amp;A in financial services associated with acquisitions and higher performance-based compensation.
Excluding restructuring transaction sale leaseback and impairment charges adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 20.6% which was slightly down from the 21.2% generated in 2013.
All three segments delivered strong operating margins compared expectations.
Small Business Services’ adjusted operating margin of 17.8% was down 0.8 percentage points over last year due to a revenue mix shift.
Financial Services’ adjusted operating margin of 23.6% was down 0.7 points from 2013 driven by check usage declines and the large customer contract renewal while direct checks’ adjusted operating margin of 33.5% increased 1.8 points from 2013 driven by cost and expense management initiatives.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement for the year our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by $59.6 million and we were drawn on our credit facility $160 million on December 31st.
Significant uses of cash in 2014 included $254 million to pay off our 2014 debt maturities $105 million for acquisitions the most significant one being Wausau Financial Systems and $60 million to repurchase common stock.
Total debt at the end of year was $554 million down from $641 million at the end of 2013.
Cash provided by operating activities for the year was $280.4 million an $18.9 million increase compared to 2013.
Higher earnings and changes in working capital were partially offset by higher contract acquisition costs and income payments.
Capital expenditures for the year were $41 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $66 million.
Looking ahead to 2015 we expect consolidated revenue on a full year basis to range from $1.74 billion to $1.78 billion.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $4.35 to $4.55.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full year outlook including small business services’ revenue is expected to increase 4% to 6% as volume declines in core business products lower SEM and SEO revenue from our decision announced in the third quarter to exit unprofitable business and unfavorable foreign exchange rates are expected to be offset by benefits from our eCommerce investments price increases growth in our distributor dealer and major accounts channels and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings.
For added clarity without the SEM SEO and FX rate impacts our growth rate in small business would be in line with past years organic growth rates.
We expect financial services’ revenue to increase 12% to 15% driven by recurring check order declines of approximately 6% and some pricing pressure which we expect will be more than offset by continued growth from marketing and other services revenue including Wausau and Destination Rewards higher revenue per order and a full year of Zions a Direct Checks revenue decline of approximately 9% to 10% driven by lower check order volumes stemming from secular declines in check usage and eliminating marketing investments that no longer meet our return criteria a continued sluggish economy full year cost and expense reductions of approximately $50 million net of investments increases in medical expenses material costs and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities lower interest expense and an effective tax rate of approximately 33.5% representing approximately $0.05 of dilution per share as compared to 2014’s tax rate.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging between $290 million and $305 million in 2015.
Reflecting stronger earnings and lower interest payments partially offset by higher tax Viva and performance-based compensation payments.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $15 million.
2015 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million about the same as 2014 as we continue to grow Deluxe.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillments and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization experience is expected to be $76 million including approximately $29 million of acquisition-related amortization.
For the first quarter of 2015 we expect revenue to range from $426 million to $434 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $0.99 to $1.04 and excludes approximately $0.12 per share of costs related to retiring the debt early.
As we indicated on our third quarter earnings call each quarter in 2015 has the same number of business days as in 2014 with the exception of the third quarter which has one more day in 2015.
There are also several other items that I will highlight that drive some meaningful year-over-year quarterly comparison challenges in the first half of the year.
First as we indicated on previous calls we renewed a large financial institution check contract early in the second quarter of 2014 at a lower price with the original price still being in place in the first quarter of 2014.
Second we expect Wausau to be dilutive in the first quarter of 2015.
The large contract renewal and Wausau collectively are expected to reduce first quarter earnings per share by approximately $0.07 as compared to the prior year.
Also as a reminder historically Direct Checks has their strongest revenue quarter of the year in the first quarter.
As Lee will highlight in a few minutes we also expect to spend more on brand awareness in the second quarter of 2015 compared to the second quarter of 2014 and again expect Wausau to be dilutive to earnings.
We expect second quarter earnings to be similar to the first quarter after reflecting higher brand spend and Wausau which collectively are expected to negatively impact second quarter earnings per share by approximately $0.06 as compared to the prior year.
We expect strong earnings per share growth in both the third and fourth quarter as revenues should be higher if Wausau should become accretive interest expense should be lower and as noted earlier we will have an extra business day in the third quarter.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small to medium sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
Additionally we expect to continue paying a quarterly dividend and repurchase shares in the last half of 2015 to at least offset dilution.
Earlier today we announced our plans to redeem all of the $200 million 7% senior notes due 2019 which become callable on March 15 2015.
We expect to record a charge in the first quarter related to the redemption of about $0.12 per share.
This charge is reflected in the GAAP diluted EPS outlook we presented today.
The debt redemption is expected to be financed with a draw on the existing credit facility and the issuance of a short-term bank loan.
We may also from time-to-time consider retiring additional outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our increasing cash flow strong balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid year and we delivered on our commitment to reduce our cost and expenses in 2014 by approximately $60 million bringing our total reductions since mid-2006 to approximately $550 million.
Looking ahead to 2015 we will continue our focus on the revenue growth phase of our transformation but we will not lessen our focus on cost and expense reductions.
We expect to drive an incremental $50 million of cost reductions net of investments in 2015.
Approximately 55% of the $50 million in expected reductions will come from sales and marketing another 40% from fulfillment and the remaining 5% coming from our shared services organizations.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2015 will be on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation and leveraging order streaming and marketing efficiencies.
We will also continue to improve the mix of paper catalog and online search engine marketing.
In fulfillments we expect to continue our lean direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms drive delivery technology and process efficiencies reduce spoilage further enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for Shared Services infrastructure we expect to continue reduce expenses primarily in IT but we also have opportunities in finance and real estate.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with a perspective on what we accomplished overall in 2014 frame expectations for 2015 for our key revenue growth area marketing solutions and other services as well as provide an update on our longer term strategic revenue mix and provide an update on our brand transformation.
I will then highlight progress in each of our three segments including a perspective on what we plan to accomplish in 2015.
Deluxe grew revenue in 2014 for the fifth consecutive year for the first time since 1996.
We saw a continued stability in our core check and product businesses and improved our mix of faster growing marketing solutions and other services revenues to almost 26% of total annual revenue.
We acquired Wausau Financial Systems and Gift Box to expand opportunities in higher growth marketing solutions and other services.
We also accelerated our brand transformation.
In addition to our strong print leadership we continue to invest in our employment brand in digital technology and extending our sales channel reach and in our communities.
We ended 2014 with nearly 4.6 million small business customers of which approximately 25% of them are marketing solutions and other services customers.
And we served approximately 5600 financial institutions.
In Shared Services infrastructure we reduced cost and improved the effectiveness of information technology finance human resources real estate and legal functions.
Our intense focus on cost reductions has now delivered enterprise-wide savings of $550 million since mid-2006.
We exited the year with more robust and innovative products and service solidified processes of better infrastructure and improved financial results.
Our operating cash flow grew for the sixth straight year allowing us to raise our dividend pay down debt and pay cash for acquisitions.
We recognize that there is still a tremendous amount of work to do.
But we made great strides in 2014.
As we enter 2015 our primary focus continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues.
This year will also mark the 100th year celebration of our Company.
Deluxe has been a steady partner to our clients over the years.
Insuring financial institutions small businesses and consumers have the products and services they need to compete and thrive in an ever changing marketplace.
Deluxe found its niche in inventiveness to survive and thrive through depressions recessions World Wars and a technological revolution.
As we look towards the next 100 years we are poised for continued growth as we aim for profitable revenue growth in 2015 for a sixth consecutive year.
The linchpin of our 100 year anniversary is something we are calling the small business revolution.
We will be telling the stories of 100 small businesses from across the country with the goal of driving more people to support and get in the small business and positioning Deluxe as champions of them and the American dream.
Through this small business revolution platform we will share 12 mini documentaries and 88 photo essays of unique and special businesses.
Rolling these out monthly throughout the year we will be sharing this great effort with the general public through social media news outlets and word of mouth.
The businesses featured will be invited and encouraged to share their stories with their customers friends and family.
We truly believe this will start a small business revolution.
Here is an update on our four subcategories’ framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We added total revenue dollars for both 2014 actuals and our 2015 outlook in addition to mixed percentages of total revenue.
We ended 2014 at $437 million in revenue stronger than our expectations with mix in the four subcategories basically in line with our expectations with the exception of other financial services which was higher.
First small business marketing finished 2014 at 14% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and is expected to represent approximately 38% in 2015 with expected growth in the upper-teens this year.
Key 2015 growth initiatives include scaling Web-to-print by cross-selling to our customer base and continuing to add new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
And some additional color we have only penetrated Web-to-print in about 5% of our distributor and dealer and customers so there remain considerable penetration opportunities.
We also see strong growth opportunities in retail packaging promotional products and specifically in distributor dealer and major accounts channels.
The second category Web services which includes logo and Web design Web hosting SEM SEO email marketing social and payroll services finished 2014 at 29% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and is expected to represent approximately 23% in 2015 with expected organic growth rates in the flat to mid single-digits but low double-digits excluding our earlier announced decision to exit some unprofitable revenue in the SEM SEO space.
Key 2015 growth initiatives and performance drivers include adding wholesale Web telco and media resellers and partners cross-selling to our retail base through bundled presence packages adding more new customers resellers and partners reducing Web design and SEM campaign cycle times and churn rates and adding payroll services customers plus new features such as time and attendance applications.
This category is also our focus area for tuck-in acquisitions.
We closed 2014 with approximately 837 000 Web-hosting customers which is a 15% increase from 2013.
We expect to close 2015 with nearly 950 000 or up over 14% from 2014.
The third category fraud security risk management and operational services finished 2014 at 18% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and are expected to represent approximately 14% in 2015 with expected growth to about flat.
Key initiatives include scaling our program services including adding new features for both national and community banks and fraud and security offers for our small businesses and direct to our consumers.
It also includes adding Banker’s Dashboard customers and providing both a tablet and new credit union solutions.
In addition we expect to scale e-checks more with opportunities ranging from adding e-checks to our distributor dealer and major accounts channels to also scaling in many areas where we do not sell paper checks today.
For example several large financial institutions are assessing their use in treasury commercial online and lockbox areas none of which we produce paper checks for today also companies that issue paper rebate temporary staffing and other payment solution checks today.
Finally other financial institution services finished 2014 at 13% of total marketing solutions and other services revenue and are expected to represent approximately 25% in 2015 with expected growth rates in the very strong double-digits.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new financial institution customers in targeting and campaign services switch agent online account opening and anchoring and scaling Destination Rewards and Wausau Financial Services.
We expect marketing solutions and other service revenues to be approximately $520 million to $535 million in 2015 up from $427 million in 2014 with organic growth in the low double-digits.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 30% of revenue and up from almost 26% in 2014 and 22% and 19% the previous two years.
We continue to target increasing marketing solutions and other services as a percent of total company revenue to approximately 40% by 2018 with checks expected to represent approximately 40% of revenue and business products and accessories expected to represent approximately 20% of revenue.
Here is an update on our brand transformation.
In 2014 we completed three local waves of television online digital and print advertising at various theoretical national spending levels.
We learned that local saturation is effective as these programs outperformed publishers’ benchmarks for online ad click through rates and drove strong traffic to deluxe.com.
Our intent for 2015 is to continue our brand awareness campaign including television online digital and print media that had higher spend levels both nationally and locally and with more sticky concept.
As I mentioned earlier we will combine our 100 year company celebration with a small business revolution documentary and surprise and delight campaign focus.
We have already signed up some key national media partnerships and we will have a heavy investment focus in the second quarter especially during small business week in May.
Our goal is to stretch our spend with impactful content and reach yielding earned media attention to raise brand awareness.
We will release documentary campaign elements throughout 2015 to maintain momentum and activate social media in an organic sharing of content.
We will provide quarterly updates on our progress during our earnings release calls.
Now shifting to our segments in small business services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remained sluggish.
Although encouragingly small business optimism improved throughout the quarter we had solid performance as revenue grew 6%.
Checks and forms performed well and seasonal holiday offers performed slightly better than our expectations.
Our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
New customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage Referral Program and through our direct response campaigns remained strong.
Average order value and conversion rates increased.
Our online Safeguard distributor and dealer channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw solid growth in Web payroll and Web-to-print services.
Again we ended the quarter with approximately 837 000 Web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the Small Business market.
Optimism indices improved consistently from October to November and again in December and closed the quarter at the highest level since October of 2006.
The drivers for improved optimism were expectations from improved business conditions in six months and real sales volume but there was much broader strength across many categories.
Hopefully this is a good sign that 2015 could finally be a breakout year for small businesses.
Encouragingly in summary current optimism indices are trending up and are at the highest levels since the great recession exiting 2014.
Other than taxes and regulation the good news is that increasing sales continues to be a small business owner's number one pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as a indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for 2015 is on profitable growing marketing solutions and other services revenue with key drivers including accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers.
Delivering an effective end-to-end integrated technology customer experience effectively acquiring and retaining customers and optimizing sales channel effectiveness and channel marketing capabilities.
At the end of January we will be releasing our new integrated customer experience solution which includes signal sign on capability for Web social and email marketing offers.
Looking ahead to 2015 we expect marketing solutions and other services revenue for the small business services segment to represent almost 30% of segment’s revenue driven by small business marketing solutions and Web services with the balance being fraud security and operational services.
In Financial Services for the year we saw the rate of decline of checks performance above 6% with rates a little lower in the community market compared to the nationals.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong and deals pending in the year well in excess of 90%.
We also simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
Looking ahead to 2015 we expect check unit to be in a decline range of over 6% or in line with 2014 decline rates.
Retention rates to be in excess of 90% on deals pending this year.
We have already extended all of our large contracts to at least the end of 2015 except one which we are working to finalize that comes due in the fourth quarter.
We have about the same community bank contracts up for renewal on 2015 compared to 2014 entering the New Year.
And we also continue to work a number of competitive RFPs.
We also implemented a price increase at the start of this year.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
Wausau revenue was better than expected at $17 million much of which was driven by lower deferred revenue adjustments than originally expected.
But overall sales and integration has gone well and we are very excited entering 2015 about our latest acquisition.
Destination rewards continue to perform very well in the fourth quarter and revenue for the year was almost $20 million.
Higher than our beginning of 2014 expectation of $15 million targeting and campaign services and profitability or Banker’s Dashboard also continued to perform well in the fourth quarter.
Looking ahead to 2015 we expect non-check marketing solutions and other services revenue to be approximately 40% of total FS revenue driven by Wausau revenue of approximately $80 million.
Fraud security risk management and profitability revenue of approximately $35 million Destination Rewards revenue of approximately $27 million and targeting campaign and activation services revenue of approximately $25 million.
We expect Wausau to be dilutive to earnings per share in the first and second quarters and accretive in the third and fourth quarters and basically close to neutral to earnings per share for the year.
This is better than our original outlook of $0.04 dilutive for the year.
In direct checks revenue was right in line with our expectations.
We continued to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check related products and services to our consumers.
As well as work on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continued to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up sell capabilities.
As well as synergistic costs and expense reductions.
For 2015 we expect direct checks revenue to decline in the 9% to 10% range driven by continued declines in consumer usage in a sluggish economy.
We anticipate that marketing solutions and other services revenue which is primarily fraud and security offers for this segment to be about 10% of direct checks revenue.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing costs and SG&amp;A in this segment and continue to deliver operating margins in the lower 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit 2014 on the heels of an outstanding quarterly performance in a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe.
But we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2015.
We believe we are well position entering 2015 for our sixth consecutive year of revenue growth.
Despite the sluggish economy our financial discipline has enabled us to invest in people technology products services and our brand in order to position ourselves for sustainable revenue growth while continuing to improve profitability and operating cash flow.
Our technologies and sales channels are stronger.
Our digital technology services offers are more mature.
Our infrastructure better and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We know it is critical for us to be able to grow revenue again in 2015 and improve the mix of our marketing solutions and other services revenue and we are well-positioned to make this happen.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Before I open the call for questions I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of Deluxe employees for their hard work dedication and simply outstanding performance in 2014.
Thank you Deluxers.
Let’s get off to a great start in 2015 and blitz for six -- for six consecutive years of profitable revenue growth.
And now Shaun will let you open the lines and Terry Ed and I will take questions.
Lee first question when you were talking about the brand marketing and brand awareness initiatives upcoming in 2015 you used a term sticky content.
I'm just curious what you meant by that? Yes historically what we’ve done as we have put more -- just printout there basic printout there and things online digital what we’re trying to do now Jamie is make it more -- we have more key to it.
And this whole idea of the small business revolution we think is just going to create gravitate small businesses a lot more to what we’re doing make it a lot more unique that what we have historically done.
And candidly Jamie we have already moved on this we have our first photo essay out.
We’re in the process of doing our second one right now and we’re seeing hits to small business revolution and the comments that are coming back into those customers and through our employees in the social media is just a lot stronger and it’s just resonating a lot better so that’s the stickiness we mean is trying to really personalize a lot more than we have traditionally done.
Okay that’s very helpful and switching to the balance sheet if I may from a credit metric perspective I mean wow you are a lot better than you were five or six years ago and I mean depending on where exactly you come in 2015 I mean you are well less than 1.5 times EBITDA of net debt-to-EBITDA as you look for over the next three to five years what do you think sort of the appropriate leverage ratio kind of range is for this business obviously being cognizant of switch more towards smaller business services in a way from just traditional checks from a percentage of revenue perspective? Jamie this is Terry.
I am going to go ahead and take a stab at answering that question.
Our goals around capital structure are really very clear and very crystal in maintaining that flexibility to really support all the needs of this transformation has so that we can keep being successful there so certainly in the horizon as you referenced there that will continue to be our focus there.
If you were to go back a few years like you mentioned our leverage ratio has been higher it’s never ever been even close to a level that we’ve been uncomfortable with as a financial team or never ever at a level that we have felt like it’s constrained us from an ability to invest in our transformation.
So in terms of looking ahead and in terms of what the appropriate ratio is I think all of the scenarios that we could see in terms of how we invest in this transformation none of them are going to take us outside of a range that we have seen in the past or something that would kind of put us at the outer limits of what we feel what we are really comfortable with.
So I don’t have a specific target saying that we will never go above certain a level but at the same time too in the wide ranges that we have played in it’s nothing it has ever been close to to making us uncomfortable.
Okay and then just sort of follow-up on that no shares repurchased during the fourth quarter and it sounds like that program it sounds like will probably more resume kind of midyear or second half of 2015 is there anything that kind of causes you to pause as a result of maybe calling the bonds anything like that just I'm curious why you would be feel that you wouldn't be in the market maybe in the first half? Yes the brief pause that you’ve picked up on there is certainly as we are in steady preparation for the call of the 200 million.
There will be a little bit of a premium there so it’s actually -- when you consider the interest payment that’s also due in that date and the premium it’s about $214 million payment that we’ll have to make.
So we’ve certainly been preparing for that.
Yes I know that makes perfect sense.
I just wanted to make sure there was nothing else going on.
Thanks very much for your time as always.
Jamie I’ll also add that we continue to be very committed to the repurchase market so to speak but again I think to use the word as well it’s a smart -- we think it’s a smart pause as we kind of head towards pulling the 2019 spec so to speak and then move on as we go through the year exactly what levels we’ll completely do again as we said in our prepared remarks it will be at least to cover dilution but we will continue to be active in the market we’d continue to believe that it’s a good return for our investors.
That makes perfect sense.
I just wanted to make sure we weren't missing anything.
So financial services had really strong results in the quarter were there any areas that came in a lot better than you were expecting? Was that driven by Wausau? Yes Randy we had better results with Wausau.
The challenge we had when we guided on the deal originally in October last year we came out was just trying to really get our arms around how much because it's new for the company not new for many of us who have technology backgrounds but trying to get that deferred revenue rates.
So we actually weren't exactly sure so obviously we were trying to be conservative.
So we did a little better there but we also performed a little better overall things have gone quite well.
Also in the prepared commentary I talked about destination rewards.
If you remember back in the third quarter call we talked about moving the $15 million up to the $19 million for the year and we actually ended up finishing closer to $20 million there as well.
So those really were the two key drivers although we had strength in some of the other MOS spaces within FS as well.
Perfect thanks.
And then could you give an update on your currency exposure? Are you still basically 100% U.S.
and Canada? We are mostly U.S based we do have even operation up in Canada both in the I saw in the small business segment and very little over in Europe but there is some Web site business that's over in Europe.
So it's not a significant part of our revenue stream but certainly meaningful enough when the rates move like they have in the past several months to have some impact.
And I will just add on we have a little bit of business that we've been expanding on in South America as well in the Web hosting space so those were all the big currency impact.
But as Terry said the biggest one really is Canada.
All right.
And then one last question here.
Do you find yourself more likely or increasingly considering larger acquisitions? We never would not consider and keep an open mind in terms of what we're doing.
We also don't have that as part of the get to the 40% we get asked that question quite a bit Randy is it something big that we would do or need to do to get there.
At this point in time it's not assumed in there but we always keep an eye on what's out there and we always should access whether or not something bigger makes sense.
We do that and what I would tell you is we will continue to do that as well.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Congrats on the quarter.
Just have a set of questions here.
So let's start with the high level macro.
I know it's been a while since we've came out of a recession -- maybe we've been in this one for too long.
But your businesses do they have a tendency to lead or lag coming out of a recession? And maybe you could talk to us maybe what you would think high by segment what we should expect to see because indicators are in the positive direction right now leading in --? It's a great question Tim.
We're really wrestling with this -- we exited we watch the optimism in the season small business in the October gets better November and then December.
And then we're watching what's going on as we start the New Year and I am challenging my small business team to really understand what are the signs of life for things that are there that tell us it's getting better than it has.
And what we try to do is look for everything from the number of small businesses that we do payroll services for.
What are we -- the dialogues that we are having in the call center on marketing the dialogues that we're having with the need or the desire to have more services in a small business portfolio.
What I'd tell you is that those are more encouraging right now as weave through the tail end of the year and started the New Year.
But Tim it's really hard yet to declare a victory here right or we through it.
I still believe it's sluggish at this point in time and I think what we've tried to guide is rates adjusting for -- some of the things that Terry talked about on the SEM and SEO and the exchange rates there kind of where we've seen the business the last couple of years organically.
Could we have upside if things continue to get better the answer was of course but right now I think it's too early for us to really tell what's happening there.
As you step into the banking world and the MOS space I can't tell you that a lot of what we're doing right now is stronger view of the consumer so to speak.
Lot of our offers are more traditional through the commercial and the retail sides of the bank and more for the benefit of the bank than all the way down in all cases to the consumer so little harder for us to get a read on that but this is obviously something that everybody is going to be wrestling with right now but I would tell you I think there is more upside right now if things continue to improve and sustain improvement than downside I think we’ve appropriately balanced our guidance in terms of our ranges for where think things are at right now.
Terry I don’t know if you want to add anything.
No I think that’s well said.
Okay good.
And then just real quickly on your SEO and SEM products that you're -- or services that you are discontinuing.
Part of the Deluxe brand has been able to walk in with a pretty broad platform.
Has that impacted your sales cycles or your sales efforts? Or are they not strategic to your customers? What are you finding out so far? Tim the areas that we stepped away from where were more channels not the SEM SEO products but just channels where we were -- we’ve been grinding for some time and we talked about this bit on the third quarter call as well we just felt we’re just on profitable opportunity.
Remember we target direct we target enterprises we’ve target resellers partners and what we try to do is decompose where were targeting and who is willing to pay for good services and who is not.
And so that’s more what we do it wasn’t taking the products out for say it was just how we target the channels that we’re going after.
Okay good.
And then on Wausau some old performance but some of that was driven by let's say an accounting treatment.
How about on a bookings basis? How is Wausau doing relative to your initial expectations? Yes it’s a great question.
The number one thing when you really understand these businesses Tim is where do they get close the year on bookings compared to I call how do they end their backlog for 2014 compared to 2013 so that we know what we got to get from a sell and bill basis going forward.
And what I would tell you is that we close very well or right in line with what we expected.
So we still got big numbers to get from our book or sell and bill ratio this year.
But now we finish I would say right what we wanted to be maybe slightly better and I think that projects well for our commitment to deliver the 80 million this year.
And then one for you Terry tax rates relative to my model is down 50 basis points for 2015.
What drove that and is there room for further improvement in the near-term? I think there is always kind of a one-off thing that will happen in tax effect and cause that rate to bounce around a little bit.
But we’ve done a pretty job in terms of thinking through 2015 and what some of those one-time items might be as we look through the year and try to bill that in.
So the difference between what we’ve seen in the past and how we see it going forward is more driven by some of those one-time benefits in cost versus any significant in unitary tax rates or any significant mix change between what jurisdictions we’re operating in.
And Tim one of the comments that I would add and because pushing Terry and his team in and actually our whole company on how we get better at lowering our tax rate one of the challenges that we ended up having is when we guided kind of preliminary in the third quarter we said it was flat year-on-year.
We now have ended the year '14 with lower tax rate.
So that gives us the $0.05 I think Terry referenced on the call that is dilutive to last year.
So our job is to keep after this and see if there is other thing that we could do.
And in other way I would look at is just smart moves in the business and looking at like Terry said at those discreet items.
So another area of focus for us and hopefully something that we can better at but I think we’re comfortable right now with that 33.5% rate.
Two questions just to take up on Jamie's questions on leverage and just the decision to call your bonds -- the 2019 bonds now versus maybe wait until you build some cash? Yes the 2019 notes were at -- or are at the 7% stated rate it is the only issuance that we’ve outstanding for a while that we’ve not had hedged.
So it has been for quite some time and by quite a bit our most expensive debt.
And the decision to refinance that now is clearly the opportunity to lower that rate that we’re paying.
We had expanded our credit facility last year from the normal $200 million level that we’ve had up to 350 and just certainly with the favorable rate we were anxious to that as quickly as we could.
And choose not to kind of resize that back down to the $200 million level.
And on the context of repaying that and the sufficiency of cash that we have one of the reasons that we’re financing a little bit of that repurchase with the new bank note is not because we don’t have enough cash to repurchase it.
It’s really because we want to maintain just a healthy level of cushion in there because our credit facility has historically been there to fund acquisitions that come up so that we’re not having to issue debt every time we do $20 million $30 million $40 million acquisitions so we wanted to maintain that level of cushion so that we could continue on with that strategy and not tighten ourselves to get ourselves too tight there.
Got it that makes some sense.
And secondly just if you could I know you gave out kind of a blended dilution number that includes the marketing spend on kind of your brand awareness.
Can you isolate that a little bit further just as to what the brand awareness component dilution might be? Yes you’re talking about the reference in second quarter where we said a $0.06 dilution for the Wausau piece and the brand spend? Correct.
And also if you could give us a sense for the full year a range of what you might be looking to spend there? Yes the extra spending that we’ll be doing there we’ll carry through on a full year basis so we’ll be spending at a higher level than we did for all of 2014 as well.
We’ve not published or we’ve not given out that specific number because the second quarter it was just more of an anomaly that we typically will have we felt that it was necessary to call that out and that’s a piece of that $0.06.
And obviously you're spending a little bit more it sounds like because it sounds like you're getting some decent traction from that? Yes we’re very happy with again we’re very early with the small business revolution spend that we’re doing this year but we feel really good about the start we’ve seen.
Yes I just like to thank everybody for your participation and questions today and I’d like to summarize just on three points first we delivered our fourth outstanding quarter of 2014 we also delivered our fifth consecutive year of revenue growth and we have established what we believe is a solid foundation to grow our revenue again in 2016 for the sixth consecutive year.
So we’re going to get back to work roll up our sleeves and I look forward to providing a positive progress report on our next call and I am going to close with -- let Ed close with some housekeeping.
Thanks Lee.
Before we conclude today’s call I would just like to mention that Deluxe management will be participating in quite a few upcoming events in the first quarter where you can hear more about our transformation.
On February 23rd and 24th we’ll be at the JPMorgan Global High Yield &amp; Leveraged Finance Conference in Miami.
On February 25th we’ll be at Robert W.
Baird &amp; Company 2015 Business Solutions Conference in New York.
On March 11th we’ll be in New York at the Credit Suisse Global Services Conference.
On March 17th we’ll be at the Sidoti &amp; Company Conference in New York.
March 18th we’ll be at the Northland Capital Growth Conference in New York and on March 25th we’ll be attending the Telsey Advisory Group the TAG Spring Consumer Conference.
Thank you for joining us and that concludes the Deluxe fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Quarter One 2015 Deluxe Corporation's Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Kathy and I will be your operator for today.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
We will conduct a question and answer session towards the end of this conference.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Merritt Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed sir.
Thank you Kathy and welcome everyone to Deluxe Corporation's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
I am Ed Merritt Deluxe's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me on today's call are Lee Schram our Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson our Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks Lee Terry and I will take questions if there are any.
I would like to remind you that comments made today regarding financial estimates projections and management's intentions and expectations regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the press release that we issued this morning as well as the company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013.
The financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in detail in today's press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor.
This information was also furnished to the SEC on the Form 8-K filed by the company this morning.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I will turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
In spite of foreign exchange headwinds a higher tax rate and a continued sluggish economy Deluxe delivered a strong quarter to start the year.
We reported revenue and adjusted earnings per share at the high-end of our outlook.
Revenue grew almost 7% over the prior year quarter and over 1% organically driven by Financial Services growth of almost 21% and small business services growth of 4%.
Marketing Solutions and Other Services ' revenues grew more than 31% over the prior year and in low double digits organically and represented 28% of total first-quarter revenue.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew more than 6% over the prior year and we generate strong operating cash flow of $78 million for the quarter.
We redeemed all of our $200 million senior notes due 2019 on March 16 2015.
We were drawn $318 million in total on our credit facility and short-term bank loan at quarter end.
As expected we did not repurchase any common shares in the quarter.
We continued our brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and basically delivered on our cost reduction expectations in the quarter.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the first quarter of $0.91 which included $0.12 per share for a contractual call premium and associated fees from this early senior notes retirement and $0.01 from restructuring charges.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of a $1.04 was at the upper end of our previous outlook and was 6.1% higher than the $0.98 reported in the first quarter of 2014.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $434 million growing 6.5% over last year.
Small Business Services revenue of $277 million grew 3.9% versus last year despite a continuing sluggish economic environment and unfavorable foreign exchange rates which negatively impacted revenue growth by 0.8 percentage points.
We delivered growth in Marketing Solutions and Other Services checks and in our online Safeguard distributor major accounts and dealers' channels.
Small Business Services revenue also benefited from price increases implemented early in the quarter.
Financial Services revenue of $112 million grew 20.5% versus the first quarter of last year and would have grown about 2% excluding the Wausau acquisition.
Higher marketing and other services revenue driven by Wausau and Destination Rewards price increases and revenue from Zions Bank more than offset the impact of lower check orders and the impact on pricing from a large customer contract renewals early in the second quarter of 2014.
Direct Checks revenue of $45 million was down 6.0% on a year-over-year basis but ended ahead of our expectations driven by higher reorders that were not driven by marketing initiatives.
From a product revenue perspective checks were $224 million representing 52% of total revenue.
Business products were $90 million or 20% of total revenue and Marketing Solutions and Other Services were $120 million which was 28% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 64.8% of revenue which was up 0.4 points from 2014.
The increase was primarily driven by favorable product and services revenue mix and improvements in manufacturing productivity partly offset by higher delivery and material costs.
SG&amp;A expense increased $17.4 million in the quarter which was 45.0% of revenue compared to 43.7% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost reduction initiatives in all three segments were more than offset by increased SG&amp;A in Financial Services associated with recent acquisitions and our efforts to grow the SBS distributor channel.
Excluding restructuring and transaction-related charges adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 19.8% which was down slightly from the 20.7% generated in 2014.
All three segments delivered operating margins at least in line with our expectations.
Small Business Services' adjusted operating margin of 17.9% was up 0.6 percentage points over last year due to higher revenue a favorable product mix and cost reductions.
Financial Services adjusted operating margin of 18.6% was down 5.7 points from 2014 driven primarily by Wausau purchase accounting expenses check usage declines and the large customer contract renewal.
Wausau's operations reduced Financial Services' adjusted operating margin by 5.3 percentage points in the quarter.
Direct Checks adjusted operating margin of 34.1% increased 1.2 points from 2014 and was better than we expected.
The improvement was driven by better leverage and expense management initiatives.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement total debt at the end of the quarter was $515 million which was down $38.9 million or 7.0% from December 2014.
Cash provided by operating activities for the quarter were $77.7 million a $4.4 million increase compared to 2014.
The increase was driven primarily by improved earnings and lower medical payments partially offset by higher performance based compensation payments.
Capital expenditures for the quarter were $9.5 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $17.7 million.
We are strengthening our previous consolidated revenue outlook for the full-year to the upper end and now expect it to range from $1.75 billion to $1.78 billion in spite of and unfavorable impact from foreign exchange rates of approximately $6 million.
We are also strengthening our expectations for adjusted diluted earnings per share to $4.40 to $4.55 despite a higher effective tax rate and unfavorable foreign exchange rates which collectively negatively impacted diluted EPS by approximately $0.05 per share.
Before I describe the factors impacting our outlook I would like to remind everyone that as we announced in our last 10-K beginning in 2015 we have shifted management of two of our company-owned distributors from SBS to FS as we determined that the businesses would be better positioned for long-term growth if they were managed as part of the Financial Services segment given the sell primarily to financial institutions.
Accordingly we have reclassified revenue of almost $23 million for the full-year 2014 from small business services to Financial Services to conform to the 2015 presentation.
About $4 million of the $23 million is marketing and other services revenue and was previously reported in Small Business marketing solutions but will now be included in the fraud security risk management and operational services as this portion of the business is performance management service-related activity that helps financial institutions improve their business processes through supply chain management expertise technology and services solutions.
There are several key factors that contribute to our stronger full-year outlook including small business services revenue is expected to increase 5% to 6% as volume declines in core business products lower SEM and SCO revenue from our decision announced in the third quarter of 2014 to exit unprofitable business and unfavorable foreign exchange rates are expected to be more than offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments price increases growth in our distributor dealer and major accounts channels and double-digit growth in Marketing Solutions and Other Services offerings.
For added clarity without the SEM/SCO change and unfavorable foreign exchange rates the growth rate in Small Business Services is expected to be in line with last year's organic growth rates.
We expect Financial Services' revenue to increase 11% to 14% driven by recurring check quarter decline of approximately 6% in some pricing pressure which we expect will be more than offset by continued growth from marketing and other services revenue including Wausau and Destination Rewards higher revenue per order and a full year of Zions.
Direct Checks revenue decline of approximately 8% driven by lower check order volume stemming from secular declines in check usage and eliminating marketing expenditures that no longer meet our return criteria a continued sluggish economy full-year cost and expense reductions of approximately $50 million net of investments increases in medical expenses material costs and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness Marketing Solutions and Other Services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities lower interest expense and an effective tax rate of approximately 34.0% representing a product approximately $0.07 of dilution per share compared to 2014's tax rate.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging between $295 million $305 million in 2015 reflecting stronger earnings and lower interest payments partially offset by higher tax Viva and performance-based compensation payments.
We expect contract acquisition payments to be approximately $15 million.
2015 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million about the same as 2014 as we continue to grow Deluxe.
We plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $75 million including approximately $29 million of acquisition related amortization.
For the second quarter of 2015 we expect revenue to range from $424 million to $432 million adjusted diluted earnings per share is expected to range from a $1.04 to a $0.09.
In comparison to the first quarter we now expect earnings per share to improve driven by the lapping of a large financial institution contract renewal which occurred early in the second quarter of 2014 earlier than expected integration savings from Wausau lower interest expense and we expect to spend more on brand awareness in the second quarter.
In addition Direct Checks historically has their strongest revenue quarter of the year in first quarter.
We no longer expect Wausau to be dilutive to earnings in the second quarter as our current expectation is for breakeven performance with the accelerated integration savings.
We expect strong earnings per share growth in both the third and fourth quarter as revenue should be higher Wausau should become slightly accretive interest expense should be lower and we will have an extra business day in the third quarter.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation additionally we expect to continue paying a quarterly dividend and repurchase shares in the last half of 2015 to at least offset dilution.
On March 16 2015 we redeemed all of the $200 million 7% senior notes due 2019.
The debt redemption was financed with the draw on the existing credit facility and the issuance of a $75 million short-term bank loan.
We may from time-to-time consider retiring additional outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our increasing cash flow strong balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives which again are coming from all three of our business segments.
Overall we had a solid start to 2015 in the first quarter as we basically delivered on our expected cost and expense reductions towards our $50 million annual commitment net of investments.
Approximately 55% of the $50 million in expected reductions will come from sales and marketing another 40% from fulfillment and the remaining 5% coming from our shared services organizations.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2015 will be of sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation leveraging sales and marketing efficiencies including integrations from SBS and FS acquisitions.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms drive delivery technology and process efficiencies reduce spoilage and further enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce expenses primarily in IT but we are also working opportunities in finance and real estate.
Now turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on overall focus and then highlight progress in each of our three segments including the perspective on what we hope to accomplish during the balance of 2015 as well as an update on our brand transformation.
Our primary focus of 2015 continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenues towards our goal of 40% by 2018.
Here we will focus on growing organically as well as continuing to assess potential small to medium size acquisitions that complement our large customer bases and add new technologies.
We have strengthened our channels and small business to include financial institutions online retail wholesale distributors dealers and major accounts.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of a growing suite of products and services a small business needs to market and operate their business and helping financial institutions with customer acquisition fraud security and risk management and commercial and treasury services offers.
There is an update on our four subcategories framework for Marketing Solutions and Other Services.
We ended the first quarter right in line with our expectations in revenue with mix in the four subcategories basically in line with our expectations.
First small business marketing is expected to represent approximately 40% in 2015 with expected growth in the mid-20s this year.
Key 2015 growth initiatives include scaling web-to-print by cross-selling to our customer base and continuing to add new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
In addition to the opportunity to penetrate web-to-print we also see strong growth opportunities in retail packaging promotional products and other marketing solutions.
In the first quarter we refreshed our web-to-print website and won several new major account customers that will use our comprehensive marketing solution offers that will begin rollouts in the second quarter.
These major account wins are driving the higher expected revenue growth and small business marketing for the year.
The second category web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO email marketing social and payroll services is expected to represent approximately 21% in 2015 with expected decline rates in the mid-single digits but low single-digit growth excluding our earlier announced decision to exit some unprofitable revenue in the SEM/SEO space.
The expected decline in this category is primarily driven by where we have the largest adverse impact of foreign-exchange movement.
Key 2015 growth initiatives and performance drivers include adding wholesale web telco and media resellers and partners cross-selling to our retail base through bundled presence packages adding more new customers resellers and partners reducing web design churn rates and adding payroll services customers and features such as time and attendance applications.
This category also is our focus area for tuck-in acquisitions.
We closed the first quarter with approximately 843 000 web hosting customers.
In the quarter we also won two new wholesale web telco and media competitive takeaway deals which we expect to migrate in the second half of the year.
The third category fraud security risk management and operational services are expected to represent approximately 16% in 2015 with expected growth above flat.
Key initiatives include scaling our program services including adding new features for both national and community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
It also includes adding bankers' dashboard customers and providing both a tablet and new credit union offers.
Our new credit union offer was released at the beginning of the second quarter.
This category also now includes some performance management revenue that was previously reported in small business marketing.
In addition we expect to scale e-checks more with opportunities ranging from adding e-checks to our distributor dealer and major account channels to also scaling in many areas where we do not sell paper checks today.
In the first quarter we acquired VerifyValid which we believe will help us build more credibility now as Deluxe e-checks with larger financial institutions people rebate temporary staffing and other payment solution companies.
In the first quarter in addition to having our strongest quarter selling e-checks to our retail small business customers we also secured our first commitment from a non-Deluxe financial institution that will begin a rollout this quarter along with the payment solutions company.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 23% in 2015 with expected growth rates in very strong double-digits.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new financial institution customers and targeting the campaign services switch agent online account opening and anchoring and scaling Destination Rewards in Wausau financial services.
We expect Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenues to be approximately $520 million to $535 million in 2015 up from $427 million in 2014 with organic growth in the low double digits.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 30% of revenue and up from almost 26% in 2014 and 22% and 19% the previous two years.
We continue to target increasing Marketing Solutions and Other Services as a percent of total company revenue to approximately 40% by 2018 with checks expected to represent approximately 40% of revenue and this is products expected to represent approximately 20% of revenue.
Here is an update on our brand transformation our intent for 2015 is to continue to raise brand awareness by leveraging our 100<sup>th</sup> year anniversary through a purposeful content-based campaign.
To celebrate our 100<sup>th</sup> year we are telling the stories of 100 small businesses across the country through a documentary and photo essay series.
These stories will be released throughout the year via our social channels and live on Small Business Revolution data work.
We released three many documentaries and 21 photo essays in the first quarter.
The reaction has been very positive and has resulted in quite a bit of earned media attention with $184 million impressions in over 80 new stories on radio television and print.
Social media is an important part of this campaign by virally spreading the stories and is responsible for 25% of the traffic to small business revolution data work.
Starting this month and then with an even higher focus in May during small business week we have partnered with ABC and specifically Good Morning America and Shark Tank both of these properties allow us to utilize national and local television which reinforces our national and local PR approach.
Herjavec from Shark Tank has joined us in the small business revolution and will be an expert in our full-length documentary to be released this fall along with other small business industry experts.
He will also participate in media interviews to help amplify our message and spread the campaign through PR and social.
Our goal is to stretch our spend with impactful content and reach yielding earned media attention to raise brand awareness.
We will continue to release documentary campaign elements throughout 2015 to maintain momentum and activate social media in organic sharing of content.
We will continue to provide quarterly updates on our progress during our earnings release calls.
Now shifting to our segments in Small Business Services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remain sluggish.
We also saw some adverse impact on our results from unexpected severe winter weather and increasing foreign-exchange headwinds.
We had solid performance however as revenue grew 4%.
Checks and forms performed well and our results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
New customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage referral program and our direct response campaigns remained strong.
Average order value and conversion rates increased.
Our online Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw growth in web and payroll services while SEO/SEM services declined in line with our earlier decision to exit some unprofitable channels.
Again we ended the quarter with approximately $843 000 web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices declined to start the quarter in January basically flat in February but declined further in March and collectively ended down for the quarter.
Severe winter weather and slower consumer spending were cited as the primary reasons for the sluggish optimism results.
Optimism momentum in the fourth quarter of 2014 shifted downward in the first quarter with small business expectations for the future less than exuberant.
The percentage of small businesses planning capital outlays over the next three to six months fell to a weak 24% reading.
In summary current optimism indices remain sluggish and actually trended down in the first quarter.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owners' number one pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for 2015 is on profitably growing marketing solutions and other services revenue with key drivers including accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers delivering an effective end-to-end integrated technology customer experience effectively acquiring and retaining customers and optimizing sales channel effectiveness and channel marketing capabilities.
For 2015 we expect Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenues for Small Business Services segment to represent almost 30% of segment revenue driven by small business marketing solutions and web services with the balance being fraud security and operational services.
In Financial Services we saw the decline of checks performed a little higher than 6% primarily driven by Tier 1 and Tier 2 size financial institutions.
We continue to expect the decline rate for the year will be about 6%.
We implemented a price increase at the start of the year.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current quarter.
We simplified or processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
We have now extended all our large contracts through at least the third quarter of 2015 with the exception of one which we are working to retain.
We also continue to work a number of competitive RFPs.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenue opportunities.
Wausau revenue was approximately $17 million which was lower than expected driven by some customer rollout delays to later in the year that may also extend into 2016 as well.
We are also seeing financial institutions taking longer to decide to in-source or outsource Wausau services.
Both of these challenges we expect will have about a $5 million adverse impact on total year revenue.
Destination Rewards which we are now calling Deluxe Rewards continued to perform very well in the first quarter.
In March we began the rollout of another new major customer Allstate and we are working many other potential large accounts.
Targeting and campaign services and profitability or Bankers Dashboard also continued to perform well in the first quarter.
For 2015 we expect non-check marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately 40% of total FS revenue driven by Wausau revenue of approximately $75 million fraud security risk management and operational services revenue of approximately $40 million Deluxe Rewards revenue of approximately $30 million and targeting campaign and activation services revenue of approximately $20 million.
Overall we continue to be pleased with the Wausau acquisition.
Although we have adjusted our revenue expectations down slightly for the year we have been able to improve operating margins.
As expected Wausau was dilutive a little more than $0.02 per share in the first quarter.
Although we originally expected it to be dilutive again in Q2 we now believe the operating performance will be neutral to EPS due to earlier than expected integration savings and then slightly accretive in the third and fourth quarters and basically close to neutral to earnings per share for the full year.
In Direct Checks revenue was higher than our expectations driven by higher initial orders and reorders.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to consumers.
We continue to work a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up-sell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
Our Direct Checks expectations for the year are slightly better.
Previously we guided to a decline of 9% to 10% but we now believe the decline will be closer to 8% driven by continued declines in consumer usage in a sluggish economy.
We anticipate that Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenue which is primarily fraud and security offers for this segment to be about 10% of Direct Checks revenue.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and continue to deliver operating margins in the lower 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As exit the first quarter on the heels of a strong quarterly performance in a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe but we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2015.
We believe we are well positioned in 2015 for our sixth consecutive year of revenue growth.
Our breadth of offers and financial discipline has enabled us to position ourselves for sustainable revenue growth while continuing to improve profitability and operating cash flow.
Our technologies and sales channels are stronger our digital technology services offers more mature our infrastructure better and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We know it is critical for us to be able to grow revenue again in 2015 and improve the mix of our Marketing Solutions and Other Services revenue and we are well positioned to make this happen.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Now Kathy we will open the lines up for Terry Ed and I to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please stand by for your first question which comes from the line of Tim Klasell of Northland Securities.
Yes.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
The first question has to do with Wausau.
Obviously that seems to be performing better than expected but I was wondering we have some purchase accounting issue or revenue recognition treatments that we need to do.
If we were to back that out how that had performed during the quarter? The $0.02 per share loss Tim would have been then we would had a profit.
It is the best way to think about it but the purchase accounting impact did not create any variance.
That was that delivery just as we had expected so thereby we delivered on our expectations for the quarter.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
That is very helpful.
Then the next follow-on question the currency impact it is pretty much all Canadian dollar I am sure.
How does that affect the cash flows? At the bottom of the cash flow statement you have seen impact of foreign exchange and I believe it was about $4 million of impact on cash due to FX.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much and I will pass it on.
You are welcome Tim.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Jamie Clement of Macquarie.
Good morning gentlemen.
Hi Jamie.
Terry first question is you then Lee I will ask you one if that is okay.
Terry I was trying to chop this stuff down but if you could maybe just help me just make the math easier.
Yes.
Between currency where you stand today in terms of your projection for 2015 as well as tax rate year-over-year what is the aggregate delta on EPS from 2014 to 2015 if you could give me those two numbers if you have them.
The tax rate year-over-year on a full-year basis is $0.07 per share.
Okay.
Currency based on current assumptions? Currency today is at just a touch over $10 million in revenue and say roughly about $3 million of free cash profit.
On a full-year basis or quarter? That is on a full-year based.
All of those numbers I just gave you are for the full-year.
I thought $3 million it sounded like that was for the quarter.
No? $3 million was closer to the revenue impact for the quarter.
Revenue impact? Okay got it.
Okay.
That is where I think I got a little bit confused.
Fair enough.
Jamie some of that tax rate increased in our initial outlook in the year.
Some of that negative impact about $4 million of revenue in our initial guidance at the beginning of year but certainly as the quarter went on it worsened and that has grown from $4 million to now we see $10 million based on March 31 rates.
Yes.
That's what I want to clarify because obviously your earnings guidance strengthened with the release this morning yet some of that stuff actually appeared to be more negative so I just wanted to get.
We are not adjusting our outlook for those headwinds.
Yes.
Got you.
You are baking in those headwinds that is what I am saying.
Yes.
I have got it.
Baking them in those are our issue not yours.
Got it.
Totally understood.
Lee switching to you if I may so as you look at some of the strength in the sales channels that you alluded to in the prepared remarks weather that would be Safeguard deal or online large account from your perspective if we kind of get your thoughts the underlying strength in those versus let's say some other channels does that tell you anything about where you are doing a particularly good job and sort of the second question there is does that tell you anything kind of about the broader small business economy that you are selling into? The way we look at it Jamie we have been consistent so we want to win all these channels.
Our goal is to maximize cost to acquire and you know how to we find our customers through whatever channel they want to find us so to speak - channels so when you hear us talk about growth across those channels and most of those channels I think we said today we saw growth in the quarter.
I think that is a good sign for us and I think it is a good sign for offers that we have reaching the market.
One area I want to highlight again and I said in the prepared comments that we are seeing even stronger opportunity as the major accounts.
We are starting to see larger customers who have again access to small businesses and gain access to small businesses it is that one of the many model that we like where you can get a major account and they start having those relationships with those small business underneath there we won several deals that we think are significant especially in a Small Business marketing solutions area and we also think over time we can bring more services to.
I would highlight that as something that we saw even surprise us in a good way and we want to make a number of major deals which hopefully over some timing we can start releasing some names and I will give you a sense of the magnitude of what these could be for us over time.
Okay.
Then last question if I could.
VerifyValid e-checks and the situation that you referenced in your prepared remarks a non-Deluxe financial institution going so I believe you said a payroll services company can you give us some flavor about how exactly they are going to be going to market and what that kind of that arrangement is really kind of going to look like thematically? Yes.
It is interesting that non-Deluxe account FI wants to go to their small business owners and they principally like to try to implement e-checks to do that and they just want to rollout it out as a new initiatives and something they think is a differentiator for them in the marketplace.
The payment solutions company what is exciting about these kind of opportunities is that think of it as solutions companies out there that historically issued paper checks to a consumer or through a flow of funds through something they are brokering a relationship with to the consumer.
Again what we are going to be doing is issuing e-checks on their behalf so they will be issuing e-checks in effect so we like these obviously when they are non-Deluxe FIs and there are areas that were not doing paper checks today.
Jamie that is an exciting area for us so those are exactly what they are going to be for.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much for your time.
You are welcome Jamie.
Thank you.
The next question comes from the line of Joan Tong of Sidoti.
Good morning.
How you guys doing? I have a couple of question here.
Hi.
My question is related to Financial Services.
If I hear that correctly I believe that you mentioned if you exclude at a Wausau acquisition you are talking about organic growth of 2%.
The only good results like in light of the continued decline in Checks business so I am just wondering what is driving the strength other than apparently the Destination Rewards to be really really strong as you mentioned in your prepared remark.
Any other areas that you can call out in terms of like seeing that organic growth of 2%? Yes.
You hit a lot of Joan but we had a really strong quarter and Destination Rewards now what we are going to call Deluxe Rewards going forward.
We also did well in some of those other services the targeting and campaign services.
We had a strong quarter there as well so filling that out really helped our performance with that the checks rate declined being about and units being about 6%.
Right.
Do you expect that organic growth trend line would continue going forward? Yes.
One thing to think about on our $120 million on MOS revenue in the quarters we have a couple of things that happened as the year unfolds.
We have the deals that we won I mention major account wins today.
I mentioned in both the major accounts area within small business marketing and within web services winning two competitive deals takeaway deals.
Then we also have seasonality as you get into the some of our offers as you get into the more of the holiday season part of the year so because of that we expect those ramps to be bigger.
We also expect these rollouts in several of the financial services along with Wausau getting stronger as the year progresses with deals we won and now getting the rollout.
Same thing with Deluxe Rewards as we go forward same thing with some of the other FI deals in the targeting and campaign services area so that is how to think about it is as we move through the year.
Okay.
Great.
Then I have a questions regarding web services.
I think Lee you have mentioned that one of the strategies is going forward is to improve customers experience and you mentioned last quarter about like a single sign-on the platform consolidating e-mails so [ph] or not and I think it is on a beta trial if I am correct.
I am just wondering so far how is the feedback and when are you going to rollout or you have already I do not know in terms of the actual platform the single sign-on to improve like you know customer experience going forward? Right.
Jo we have had a very successful start.
What we have done is we taken all the beta users input at this point in time and we are making modifications this quarter to all the learnings that we have got.
They love the experience the simplicity of experience the lack of complexity when they are looking at intuitiveness of the offer and the solution so while you will see is us putting all those and in fact we are doing it right now we are putting all those takeaways that we have learn from the beta in new tweaks and refinements to make the offer better and you will see us come out after this quarter with more of a full market launch.
We are really excited about it right now.
Okay.
That is great.
Finally maybe just touch on e-checks a little bit.
I am excited about the acquisition definitely and I am just wondering if you can talk about the economics how is it compared to like a regular paper check profitability-wise pricing-wise.
If you have any color to share or view appreciate it? Think of it as we price the e-check about the price of a postage stamp so our sales niche is along those lines and we really have been sticking to our guns on every deal every consumer deal or every small business deal or every deal that we talk about some of these bank deals and this payment company deal are going to be along the same lines as well so the economics on this are wonderful.
One of the things that is really also compelling if we can get this thing to go and I want to just to remind everybody that this is going to take time to build this market out.
We also are working with still many large financial institutions who are also very interested in this but it will take some time but one of the great things about this is where we cannot tell today when a small business customer or consumer is getting to the last paper check in their book.
We can tell when somebody issue those e-checks and what is great about that is the ability then to seamlessly without marketing to go back to them or without following up to them to tap them on the shoulder and or electronically and say looks like anymore e-checks.
That we think is going to be a compelling operating margin opportunity for this space as well.
Okay.
That is great.
Then really just finally I think Terry mentioned some pricing pressure on the Checks business within Financial Services but would you characterize as a stepped up pricing pressure or it is pretty much the pricing is always kind of an issue and it is just a little bit more noticeable this quarter? I do not think.
I think we are trying to make sure that our investors understand it is out there.
I do not think it got any worse this quarter across all three of our segments [ph] sell checks but it is out there and it is just something that we are trying to be remindful to the investor about.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
Thank you so much.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Josh Elving of Feltl.
Hey good morning guys.
Hi Josh.
Just had one quick question a couple of mine have been answered.
Perhaps I missed it but I wanted to get a better sense.
Obviously there were some moving parts within Financial Services with regards to acquisitions realignment some accounting issues or items.
How do I think about that operating margin for that segment going forward? I know that there was a big decline year-over-year.
Can you kind of give me some idea as to think about it for the rest of the year? One of the things that we try to point out because we were a little worried.
We thought we are clearly with this when stepped on a last quarter book.
I think Terry did a nice job in his comments Josh is that the 18.6% margin we had also had the 5.3 point impact from Wausau so think about it as almost 24 points.
We think we performed quite well a little slightly down versus the prior year but remember that we had to absorb the large contract of pricing decline that we had last year beginning in the April timeframe.
The way to think about it going forward is that if you think about Wausau being basically neutral for the year on $75 million of revenue that we told you adjust your models for that and you should expect the business before that adjustment to be about in line with what we did last year so yes it is going to bring it down in the near-term but we like this and we think we will continue to get more effective at improving the profit on that Wausau business as we go forward and as we get some of the accounting treatment of things behind us.
Okay.
That is helpful.
That is my only question.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
We have time for one last question.
It is follow-up questions from Jamie Clement.
Yes.
Hey gentlemen.
Yes.
Hi Jamie.
Hello.
Hey Lee I was just curious I am wondering whether of the last couple of years with somebody acquisitions that you have made and also the area of businesses the areas of business where you are a little bit more evolved is there perhaps a little bit more seasonality in favor of 4Q and away from 1Q than perhaps was the case with the [ph] last five years ago? I do not know and I guess I have not thought about it in those terms.
The biggest issue we always have in Q1 is for whatever reason our direct to consumer business is our strongest revenue quarter every year.
I do not think it is materially different in Q2.
Sometimes depending on when the Easter holiday falls whether it is March or April Jamie.
Right.
Move things around a little bit but I cannot tell you there is something wildly different other than.
I will tell you what I was getting at.
Some of the Small Business Marketing Services you just you have more services your better at than you were four or five years ago.
I am wondering if that late lends some seasonal strength for the fourth quarter around the holidays? Fourth quarter for sure.
Yes.
That is what I was saying.
Like I was saying in other words is the fourth quarter stronger than it has been historically is what I was really meaning to say.
Do you get my drift? In other words as we model this out we look at it is the fourth quarter a lot stronger relative to the first than it maybe was five years ago? Yes.
I think the way we should think about is go back and look at what we reported on MOS in each of the quarters last year.
Again I think was Joan's question I mentioned that we will keep ramping as the year runs onto that 520 to 535 ranges on revenue so yes absolutely Jamie.
Sorry.
I did not ask you the original question appropriately but yes that is what I was getting at.
Yes.
We right with you on that.
Very good thanks very much for your time.
You are welcome.
Okay.
Let me just ramp up by first of all thanking everyone for their participation and the questions today and I just got three summary comments there I want to make.
First of all we delivered a strong first quarter to start the year.
Our Marketing Solutions and Other Services' revenue grew over 31% and the mix improved towards our goal of 30% this year and 40% by 2018 and we also believe that we established the strong baseline first quarter that we believe propels us towards revenue growth again in 2015 for the year the sixth consecutive year.
As we normally say we are going to get back roll up our sleeves get back to work and we look forward to providing another positive progress report on our next call and I am going to turn it over to Ed for some more final housekeeping.
Thanks Lee.
Before we conclude the call today I would just like to mention that Deluxe Management will be participating at a few upcoming events in the second quarter.
We can hear more about the transformation.
On May 6<sup>th</sup> we will be in Chicago with our R.
W.
Baird Growth Stock Conference.
On May 11<sup>th</sup> we will be in New York at the Macquarie Business Services One-On-One Conference and on June 2<sup>nd</sup> we will be in New York Stephen's Annual Investor Conference.
Thank you for joining us and that concludes the Deluxe First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Deluxe Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr.
Ed Merritt Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks Ben and welcome everyone to the Deluxe Corporation’s Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
I am Ed Merritt Deluxe’s Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me on today’s call are Lee Schram our Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson our Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of today’s prepared remarks Lee Terry and I will take questions if there are any.
I would like to remind you that comments made today regarding financial estimates projections and management’s intentions and expectations regarding the Company’s future performance are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the press release that we issued this morning as well as the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014.
The financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today’s press release which was furnished to the SEC on the Form 8-K filed by the Company this morning.
The press release is also posted on our Investor Relations Web site at deluxe.com/investor.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release.
Now I will turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
[Technical Difficulty] quarter and we’re well-positioned as we enter the second half of the year to grow revenue 5% to 7% for the year despite a continued sluggish economic environment.
We reported revenue and adjusted earnings per share in the second quarter above the upper end of our outlook.
Revenue grew 7.5% compared with the prior year quarter.
Small business services revenue grew over 5% and financial services revenues grew 19%.
Checks and forms performed well and marketing solutions and other services revenues grew 31% over the prior year and represented 29% of total second quarter revenue.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 12% from the prior year and we generated strong operating cash flow of $68 million for the quarter.
We were drawn $308 million in total on our credit facility and short-term bank loan at quarter end.
As expected we did not repurchase any common share in the quarter.
We continued our brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We also advanced process improvements and slightly over-delivered on our cost reduction expectations in the quarter as we accelerated initiatives.
We also learned in the quarter that we will have the opportunity to ring the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange on November 23rd which will be the actual 100-year anniversary day for the Company.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of $1.11 which included $0.02 per share for restructuring and transaction related charges.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $1.14 exceeded the upper end of our previous outlook and was 11.9% higher than the $1.01 reported in the second quarter of 2014.
The restructuring and transaction related charges are primarily for employee severance and a small acquisition in the quarter.
Revenue for the quarter also exceeded the upper end of our previous outlook at $436 million an increase of 7.5% over last year or about 2% excluding primarily the impact of the Wausau acquisition.
Small business services revenue of $282 million grew 5.5% versus last year despite a continuing sluggish economic environment and unfavorable foreign exchange rates which negatively impacted revenue growth by 0.9 percentage points in the quarter.
We delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services checks and in our online Safeguard distributor major accounts and dealer channels.
SBS revenue also benefited from price increases implemented in the first quarter.
Financial services revenue of $113 million grew 19.1% versus the second quarter of last year and would have down less than 1% excluding the Wausau acquisition.
Higher marketing solutions and other services revenue driven by Wausau and Deluxe Rewards price increases and revenue from Zion’s Bank more than offset the impact of lower check orders.
Direct Checks revenue of $41 million was down only 5.1% from last year and ended ahead of our expectations driven by higher conversion rates from email marketing offers and an improved call center incentive plan.
From a product revenue perspective checks were $220 million representing 50% of total revenue; forms accessories and other business products were $90 million or 21% of total revenue; and marketing solutions and other services were $126 million which was 29% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 64.2% of revenue which was up 0.2 points from 2014.
The increase was primarily driven by previous price increases improvements in the services revenue margin and improvements in manufacturing productivity partially offset by product revenue mix and higher delivery and material costs.
SG&amp;A expense increased $16.6 million in the quarter which was 43.6% of revenue compared to 42.8% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost reduction initiatives in all three segments were more than offset by increased SG&amp;A and financial services associated with the Wausau acquisition and our efforts to grow the small business distributor channel.
Excluding restructuring and transaction related charges adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 20.8% which was down slightly from the 21.3% generated in 2014.
All three segments delivered operating margins at least in line with our expectations.
Small business services adjusted operating margin of 17.6% was down one percentage point driven by higher spend on brand awareness in the quarter.
As we previously communicated in the last couple of earnings calls our highest level of brand spend was planned for the second quarter and we executed to our plan.
Financial services adjusted operating margin of 22.8% was down 1.1 points from 2014 driven by Wausau acquisition amortization expenses and check usage declines partially offset by the timing of cost reductions.
Although Wausau was accretive to earnings in the second quarter the financial services adjusted operating margin was negatively impacted 3.8 points from the business.
Direct Checks adjusted operating margin of 37.2% increased 4.9 points from 2014 and was stronger than we expected driven by a higher mix of reorders and lower costs which more than offset the lower order volume.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements total debt at the end of the quarter was $504 million which was down $50.5 million or 9% from December 2014.
Cash provided by operating activities for the first half was $146 million a $20.2 million increase compared to the first half of 2014.
The increase was driven primarily by improved operating performance timing of collections associated with the Wausau business and lower interest payments partially offset by higher performance based compensation payments.
Capital expenditures for the first six months of 2015 were $19.3 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $35.7 million.
We are strengthening our previous consolidated revenue outlook for the full year and now expect it to range from $1.76 billion to $1.78 billion in spite of a worsening unfavorable impact from foreign exchange rates.
We are raising our expectations for adjusted diluted earnings per share to $4.50 to $4.60.
There are several key factors that contribute to our improved full year outlook including small business services revenue is expected to increase 5% to 6% as volume declines in core business products lower SEM and SEO revenue from our decision announced in third quarter of 2014 to exit unprofitable business and unfavorable foreign exchange rates are expected to be more than offset by benefits from our e-commerce investments price increases growth in our Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings.
For added clarity without the SEM and SEO change and unfavorable foreign exchange rates the growth in small business services is expected to be in line with last year’s organic growth rates.
We expect financial services revenue to increase 12% to 14% driven by continued growth from marketing solutions and other services revenue including Wausau and Deluxe Rewards higher revenue per order and a full year of Zion’s partially offset by recurring check order declines of approximately 6% and some pricing pressure including the impact of the large customer renewal early in the second quarter of 2014 a Direct Checks revenue decline of 6% to 7% driven by lower check order volume stemming from secular declines in check usage and eliminating marketing expenditures that no longer meet our return criteria a continued sluggish economy full year costs and expense reductions of approximately $50 million net of investments increases in medical expenses material costs and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities lowering interest expense and an effective tax rate of approximately 34% representing approximately $0.07 of dilution per share compared to 2014’s tax rate.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows and have raised our estimates for the year to a range of $300 million to $310 million in 2015 reflecting stronger operating performance and lower interest payments partially offset by higher tax and performance-based compensation payments.
We continue to expect annual contract acquisition payments to be approximately $15 million.
2015 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million about the same as 2014 as we plan to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be approximately $76 million including approximately $30 million of acquisition related amortization.
For the third quarter of 2015 we expect revenue to range from $439 million to $447 million; adjusted diluted earnings per share is expected to range from a $1.10 to a $1.15.
In comparison to the second quarter adjusted EPS is expected to be about the same at the mid points of the third quarter range primarily due to higher MOS revenue and lower brand awareness spend offset by lower financial services and Direct Checks higher margin check revenue and the resulting flow through to operating income and lower cost reductions.
For Wausau we expect the earnings per share contribution to be slightly accretive in the third quarter or about the same as the second quarter.
Shifting to our capital structure we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
Additionally we expect to continue paying a quarterly dividend and repurchase shares in the back half of 2015 to at least offset dilution.
We may from time to time consider retiring additional outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our increasing cash flow strong balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives which again are coming from all three business segments.
Overall we had a solid second quarter as we over-delivered slightly on our expected cost and expense reduction towards our $50 million annual commitment net of investments.
Approximately 55% of the $50 million in expected reductions will come from sales and marketing another 40% from fulfillment and the remaining 5% coming from our shared services organizations.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2015 will be on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation leveraging sales and marketing efficiencies including integrations from recent acquisitions.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms drive delivery technology and process efficiencies reduce spoilage further enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce expenses primarily in IT but we are also working opportunities in finance and real estate.
And now I’ll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on overall focus and then highlight progress in each of our three segments including the perspective on what we hope to accomplish during the balance of 2015 as well as an update on our brand transformation.
Our primary focus in 2015 continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues towards our goal of 40% by 2018.
Here we will focus on growing organically as well as continuing to assess potential small to medium-sized acquisitions that complement our large customer base and add new technologies.
We have strengthened our channels of small business to include financial institutions online retail wholesale Safeguard distributors dealers and major accounts.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of a growing suite of products and services a small business needs to market and operate their business and helping financial institutions with customer acquisition fraud security and risk management and commercial and treasury services offers.
Here is an update on our four subcategories framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We ended the second quarter right in line with our exceptions in revenue with mix in the four subcategories basically in line with our expectation.
First small business marketing is expected to represent approximately 41% in 2015 with expected growth in the mid-20s this year.
Key 2015 growth initiatives include scaling web-to-print by cross-selling to our customer base and continuing to add new customers through distributors dealers and major accounts.
In addition to the opportunity to penetrate web-to-print we also seek strong growth opportunities in retail packaging promotional products and other marketing solutions.
In the second quarter we grew in the strong double-digits driven by new major account customers that are using our comprehensive marketing solutions offers.
The second category web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO email marketing social and payroll services is expected to represent approximately 21% in 2015 with expected decline rates in the mid-single digits but low single-digit growth excluding our earlier announced decision to exit some unprofitable revenue in the SEM/SEO space.
Key 2015 growth initiatives and performance drivers include adding wholesale web telco and media resellers and partners cross-selling to our retail base through bundled presence packages adding more new customers resellers and partners reducing web design churn rates and adding payroll services customers and features such as time and attendance applications.
This category also is our focus area for tuck-in acquisitions.
In the second quarter we saw a double-digit growth in direct web services offers.
We closed the second quarter with approximately 863 000 web hosting customers.
The third category fraud security risk management and operational services is expected to be about flat in 2015 and represent approximately 16%.
Key initiatives include scaling our program services including adding new features for both national and community banks and fraud and security offers for small businesses and direct to our consumers.
It also includes adding Banker’s Dashboard customers and providing both with tablet and new credit union offers.
As a reminder this category also now includes some performance management revenue that was previously reported in small business marketing.
In addition we expect to scale eChecks more with opportunities ranging from adding eChecks to our distributor dealer and major account channels to also scaling in many areas where we do not sell paper checks today.
Deluxe eChecks had its best revenue quarter ever and we have opportunities with larger financial institutions paper rebate medical and insurance clearing houses and other document management and payment solution companies.
20% of all eCheck customers are new customers who have not purchased a paper check from Deluxe in the last six years.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 22% in 2015 with expected growth rates in very strong double-digits.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new financial institution customers and targeting and campaign services SwitchAgent online account opening and anchoring and scaling Deluxe Rewards and Wausau financial services.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $525 million to $535 million in 2015 up from $427 million in 2014 with organic growth in the low double digits.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 30% of revenue up from almost 26% in 2014 and 22% and 19% the previous two years.
We continue to target growing marketing solutions and other services as a percent of total company revenue to approximately 40% by 2018 with checks expected to represent approximately 40% of revenue and business products expected to represent approximately 20% of revenue.
Here is an update on our brand transformation.
Our intent for 2015 is to continue to raise brand awareness by leveraging our 100-year anniversary through a purposeful content-based campaign.
To celebrate our 100th year we are telling the stories of 100 small businesses across the country through our documentary and photo essay series.
These stories will be released throughout the year via our social channels and live on SmallBusinessRevolution.org.
We have now released six mini documentaries and 51 photo essays through the first half of the year.
The reaction has been very positive and has resulted in quite a bit of earned media attention with over 920 million impressions and 245 new stories on radio television and print.
Social media is an important part of this campaign by virally spreading the stories and is responsible for 20% of the traffic to SmallBusinessRevolution.org.
We also had a very successful partnership with ABC and specifically Good Morning America and Shark Tank primarily in the month of May focused around small business suite.
Both of these properties allowed us to utilize national and local television which reinforced our national and local PR approach.
Robert Herjavec from Shark Tank joined us in the small business revolution and will be an expert in our full-length documentary to be released this fall along with other small business industry experts.
Our goal is to stretch our spend with impactful content and reach yielding earned media attention to raise brand awareness.
In the second half of the year we will continue to release monthly documentaries including a full-length one in late September.
Introduced surprise and delight for the love of small business recognition events refreshed our respective SBS and FS brands and link our efforts with our 100-year company anniversary culminating with our ringing the bell to open the day at the New York Stock Exchange on November 23rd.
We will continue to provide quarterly updates on our progress during our earning release calls.
Now shifting to our segments in small business services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remains sluggish and foreign exchange rates remain unfavorable.
We had solid performance however as revenue grew over 5%.
Checks and forms met our expectations.
Results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved.
New customers from our financial institution Deluxe Business Advantage referral program and our direct response campaigns remained strong.
Average order value and conversion rates increased.
Our online Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw growth in small business marketing solutions web and payroll services while SEM/SEO services declined in line with our earlier decision to exit some unprofitable channels.
Again we ended the quarter with approximately $863 000 web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market and so far the economic indexes appear to be consistent with our previous expectations and what we planned into our outlook.
Optimism indices increased to start the quarter in April and continued to improve in May but declined dramatically to close out the quarter in June ending at the lowest point since March 2014.
Optimism momentum in the fourth quarter 2014 that shifted downward in the first quarter continued to shift further downward in the second quarter.
The outlook on business conditions expectations fell to the lowest level in a year.
The percentage of small businesses planning capital outlays over the next three to six months fell to a weak 23% reading.
In summary current optimism indices remain sluggish and actually trended down further in the second quarter.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owner’s number one pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
Our focus for 2015 is on profitably growing marketing solutions and other services revenue with key drivers including accelerating our brand transformation and significantly improving overall market awareness while institutionalizing our brand promise for our customers delivering an effective end-to-end integrated technology customer experience effectively acquiring and retaining customers and optimizing sales channel effectiveness and channel marketing capabilities.
For 2015 we expect marketing solutions and other services revenue for the small business services segment to represent over 30% of segment revenue driven by small business marketing solutions and web services with the balance being fraud security and operational services.
In financial services we saw the rate of decline of checks perform about 7% however June came in closer to 6%.
We continue to expect the unit decline rate for the year will be about 6%.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current quarter.
We simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
We have now extended all our large contracts through at least the third quarter of 2015 with the exception of one which we are working to retain.
We also continue to work a number of competitive RFPs.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
Wausau revenue was approximately $19 million which met our expectations and we had strong bookings in the quarter helping us build backlog that will begin to roll out over the balance of the year.
Deluxe Rewards continued to perform very well in the second quarter including achieving double-digit operating margins.
For 2015 we expect non-check marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately 36% of total FS revenue driven by Wausau revenue of approximately $75 million; fraud security risk management and operational services revenue of approximately $40 million; Deluxe Rewards revenue of approximately $30 million; and targeting campaign and activation services revenue of approximately $15 million.
Overall we continue to be pleased with the Wausau acquisition.
Wausau was almost a penny accretive to EPS in the second quarter and we expect it to be slightly accretive in the third and fourth quarters and now slightly accretive to earnings per share for the full year.
In Direct Checks revenue was higher than our expectations driven by better email marketing conversion rates and an improved call center incentive plan.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers as well as work a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up-sell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
Our Direct Checks expectations for the year are better.
Previously we guided to a decline of 8% but now we believe the decline will be 6% to 7% driven by continued declines in consumer usage in a sluggish economy.
We anticipate that marketing solutions and other services revenue which is primarily fraud and security offers for this segment to be about 10% of Direct Checks revenue.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing and -- manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and continue to deliver operating margins in the low to mid 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit the second quarter on the heels of an outstanding performance in a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe but we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2015.
We believe we are well positioned in 2015 for our sixth consecutive year of revenue growth.
Our breadth of offers and financial discipline has enabled us to position ourselves for sustainable revenue growth while continuing to improve profitability and operating cash flow.
Our technologies and sales channels are stronger; our digital technology services offers are more mature; our infrastructure is better; and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We know it is critical for us to be able to grow revenue again in 2015 and improve the mix of our marketing solutions and other services revenue and we are well positioned to make this happen.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Now Ben we will open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from line of Tim Klasell of Northland Securities.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Just a few quick questions here first eChecks continues to do -- had its best quarter ever; how are you guys feeling about the margin contribution of each eChecks versus the traditional Direct Checks? This will be better.
That’s simple and fast like that.
And then the check declines of 6% to 7% versus the initial expectations of an 8% decline is that a little bit more on -- is there any particular market segment that is doing better that you can talk to or is it sort of broadly speaking a bit better than expectation? Yes Tim first of all we guided 6; we’ve been consistent on 6.
We did see about 7 in the quarter but we saw 6 in June and we’re sticking to 6 for the year.
It is the way to think about it.
And that’s really again from a financial services perspective where we were stronger was that we expected was in the Direct Checks area.
And a couple of reasons as we alluded the last couple of quarters we’ve been trying to get smarter and smarter about how we’re spending our marketing dollars to get to those consumers both for new orders and then for reorders.
And we just got better and better at how we’re converting what we call our email marketing where we’re reaching out to our base.
And then believe it or not we made a change in our -- we’re always looking at how we script our call center and how we work our call center but we made an incentive change and that incentive has positively surprised us and it’s started early in the quarter as well.
So that’s the way that I would think about it.
Back to the banking channel for just a minute I would say we’ve seen consistency from the national through the community banks.
So not -- like national is declining faster communities declining faster it’s pretty consistent across the FI landscape.
We have one large account yet to renew on the financial services side once that decision is made positively or negatively how long of a gap do we have for the next big renewal? We feel positive about that first of all and that will get it renewed and the next the biggest one we have is national 2016 and we actually feel positive about renewing that one in the process that we’re going through right now on that.
Hopefully we’ll be able to report on our next call that we have all of our major deals closed not only through ‘15 but also through ‘16 as well.
And then one little accounting detail.
You’ve mentioned FX a few times; how big was the impact on FX least wise on revenues and earnings can you give us some exact number? If you compare that our original guidance that we came into the year with the FX rate has deteriorated and it’s about $5 million of revenue for the full year and on a year-over-year comparison that was closer to $10 million.
So it’s a sizable but again we’re absorbing that within the outlook ranges that we have provided and have not lowered guidance for that.
And the profit profile on that Tim is right in line with our operating margins so in that low 20% range.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from line of Josh Elving of Feltl.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
I had a question on the financial services operating margin.
If I just look at the past few quarters I know that there was a significant impact in the first quarter due to the drag of Wausau to the tune of call it 5%.
Did I hear you correctly and that there was still a 3.8% drag this quarter? Yes that business did lower that margin by 3.8 points correct.
And so if I am just looking -- I am sorry? Here’s the way to think about Wausau right now.
So what we’ve guided and I think we’ve tried to be as transparent as we can here.
If the revenues for the year are $75 million and we expect it to be slightly accretive for the year and we were slightly accretive for the quarter and we had $19 million of revenue.
If you would make those adjustments you’re going to need to adjust every quarter as you kind of roll through the balance of the year.
When we get into the fourth quarter we had told to the Street that we did about $17 million last year in the fourth quarter.
So you will get that full lapping will actually happen in the fourth quarter here.
So we’re trying to be as transparent as we can.
One of the things that we alluded to on the call both in my comments at the beginning and Terry got into more details.
We had a better quarter on cost reductions.
We just got more initiatives earlier and we also said we expect there to be therefore lower cost reductions relative to how we originally planned a year in the third quarter.
That benefit really helped us in the financial services segment in the second quarter.
A lot of that work is -- some of it is the Wausau stuff as well as other efficiencies that we got both in our SG&amp;A as well as in our manufacturing facilities.
So that’s really why we had the stronger performance in terms of margin when you adjust for Wausau in FS.
So hopefully that makes sense for you.
I think so and I think you gave a lot of information.
So I appreciate that.
I guess I was trying to get a sense for if I were comparing year-over-year theoretically without making the adjustments to the operating margin.
If I look at the 22.6% in the second quarter here at 3.5% or 3.8% the year-over-year comparison looks significant.
And then extrapolating from there what the back half looks like if you’re going to see significant improvements year-over-year then going forward.
Yes Josh and that’s where you are seeing kind of the timing of some of those cost reduction benefits coming through more in second quarter less expected in second quarter in particular with this segment.
So I wouldn’t take a straight extrapolation of what you saw in second quarter and setting that up to the balance of the year.
Looking at the interest expense line I don’t know if there were some different balances debt balances into quarter but it looks like a nice improvement there.
Is that just due to a relatively lower cost of debt in the quarter and how do we think about that line going forward because there are relatively significant? Throughout the second quarter it was pretty stable from beginning to end.
What’s really driving the big difference when you compare year-over-year or even second quarter versus first quarter it’s a couple of things.
The average interest rate is down significantly because we paid-off a higher rate debt back in October of last year and then we refinanced a higher rate debt again in first quarter of this year.
So it’s slightly coming down in first quarter but second quarter is that rate came to where the new normal level is going to be for the full quarter.
And that average rate is less than 3% on a combined basis for all of the debt that’s outstanding.
And then second but still important as well is our average debt level has come down.
So lower interest rate on a lower debt level has produced roughly about $5 million of savings in the quarter.
So is that a fixed or relatively fixed rate or is that float? That is all floating.
What we have on the balance sheet today is all floating.
Definitely we have a credit facility and a small bank loan.
And then we have fixed rate debt due in 2020 to the tune of $200 million but we’ve hedged that.
So it is actually floating as well.
And then I guess it kind of ties into I guess my last question that has to do with capital allocation.
I know that you suggested that you may buy back some stock.
I know that Company suggested that there is some tuck-in acquisitions you would like to do.
Do you currently have the appropriate debt level for your case; what you do with -- how do you I guess prioritize way to do with your capital generation your cash flow? We’re not at all concerned about the debt level that we have.
We don’t necessarily manage -- at the low level that we have today we’re not really aggressively managing to a specific number because our credit metrics are still incredibly strong.
We’re really focused on that transformation.
And our capital allocation priorities really kind of zero-in on that transformation.
So again we will spend money first and foremost on organic investments that help that transformation move along small to medium size acquisitions is right up to the top of that list as well.
And then secondarily we got a dividend that we are committed to continuing to pay.
We’ll do some share back generally to offset dilution and then maybe in some years a little bit more depending on what the M&amp;A needs for capital hour.
And then last but not least to the extent that excess cash flow is left over it comes through in the form of debt reduction like in a period we’re not adverse taking debt up from one quarter to the next quarter by driving more on a credit facility.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Joan Tong of Sidoti &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
A couple of questions here regarding Wausau it seems like it’s doing a little bit better.
And then also Lee you mentioned that the booking is getting stronger and it seems like things are improving.
Is it a right characterization because it seems like last quarter -- in the last quarter it was little bit late? Are we seeing things improving now and how sustainable it’s going to be going forward? You heard that comment Joan exactly right.
We had a really nice quarter.
We delivered the revenue that we expected but our bookings were stronger than we expected and obviously that supports us well for the balance of the year and getting to that $75 million.
But we’re also looking forward and we want to get this thing to grow for us as well.
And so what we’re hopeful is that not only the backlog that will be converted in the second half of the year will be on that 75 but hopefully helps us to build backlog as we continue to roll the business out in 2016.
So yes you read it right and we did a little better on -- we predicated a breakeven EPS neutral for the quarter; we did a little better than that and that helped our total company profitability; it also helped the operating margins in FS.
So you read it well.
And then Lee how about the major account wins that you had on the small medium size business in the first quarter; how the account wins activities in the second quarter any major uptake or is kind of at the same pace? Any color you can give will be appreciated.
We slightly raised if you go back and look at the MOS small business marketing that four way breakout we guided for the first -- end of the first quarter what we guided end of the second quarter we raised it in the first quarter but we raised it again a little bit.
We tightened the range and then we raised the high-end of that.
What we’re signaling is that we continue to see a very strong uptake and I’ll give you an example what we’re talking about.
We’re reaching into what we call major accounts but then a factor they act like small businesses so there are opportunities with financial advisory firms as an example.
And they’re buying business cards and they’re buying marketing brochures and full color materials.
Well what’s exciting for us and we’re also starting to introduce what we think our smart other cross-sell place.
For example and one of the financial advisors we just introduced email marketing so they can stay in touch with their clients and learn to stay in touch with them.
One of the things that we’ve learned over the history of our small business and throwing products and services at them is make sure that they can swallow or absorb them smartly at the right time.
And so we think this is an area that we’re going to now test into that not only brings more and more of those marketing and product and some service only things but now starts to bring in things like email marketing in the equation.
So yes we’re bullish and we got I would say a little more bullish here Joan in the second quarter based on what we’re seeing.
And then Lee you continue to talk about like your long-term goal is to grow marketing solutions get the product mix more favorable going forward and continue to drive top-line but I haven’t heard you talk about operating margin expansion.
I am just wondering your top-line growth is very nice this quarter and your operating income actually grew nicely compared to the first quarter it was down a little bit is it one of your target or a long-term goal going forward is to bring that top-line to operating leverage to the bottom-line? I think here’s what you’re going to see and I think we’ve been consistent with every time we’re out and every time we’re talking with investors on this.
If you’re interested in the stock we’re not going to improve the EBITDA.
We always say EBITDA margins but you can think of it as operating margins as well.
Our operating margins in the 21% range our EBITDA margins in the 25% range what we expect to happen is we will grow the dollars of operating income and grow the dollars of EBITDA and based on the fact that we’re growing revenue.
We believe that we will improve and continue to improve the MOS margins while probably we continue to always feel a bit pressure in the more commoditized core print products.
And that will lever out to that maybe slightly improving overall operating margin or EBITDA margin profile and yet driving more dollars and therefore more dollars of cash flow and that’s how we’re thinking about it because we also want to be investing smartly in the Company as we move forward as well.
So that’s the way to think about what we’re trying to do.
And then one last question is regarding foreign exchange.
I think Terry you gave guidance regarding the top line how foreign exchange would affect the top line over for the full year.
How about the bottom line and also you’ve mentioned that higher tax rate what is the EPS impact for this year from foreign exchange and higher tax rate can you just give me that number? Yes the impact on foreign exchange rate carries a pretty normalized profit or loss margin but that’s I think the operating income impact to be in the 20ish percentage of the revenue numbers that I did provide.
And then slightly higher tax rate this year is 34% on a year-over-year basis for the full year that will drive a negative EPS impact of about $0.07 per share.
Thank you.
And we do have time for one final question from the line of Charley Strauzer of CJS Securities.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Couple of questions going back to the Direct Check segment really quick and kind of help me reconciling the strength in the operating margins 37%ish in the quarter versus the guidance for low to mid 30s going forward.
I know you’ve seen some success like you said with the call centers.
You’re dialing back some of the spend there.
So why wouldn’t that be more sustainable in kind of mid to upper 30s kind of going forward through the year? Because we pulled some of the cost reductions in most of them Charley were in the FS space that had the largest impact but there was some impact in the Direct Check segment as well.
We also Charley mentioned in the prepared remarks too that we do have a higher mix of reorders certainly versus expectations too.
And the profit profile on reorders as opposed to initials or introductory offers is quite a bit stronger.
So we saw a really good strength in the reorder side of that that really lifted that operating margin.
And the period of time in which we’re seeing that strength is just really not long enough for us to kind of declare any trend here.
Right.
So that could be an upward lever for you going forward as that continues? Yes we love to see that mix and that strength continue but again it’s too early to make that call.
And then just if you look at the MOS slide in your presentation kind of the mix breakup between small business marketing and other FI services.
I noticed that for last couple of calls now you’ve seen kind of the small business marketing mix ticking up a couple of percentage points and other FI kind of ticking down a couple of percentage points anything driving one way or the other those two buckets? No I think it’s just exactly what we just answered to Joan on the small business marketing that solutions that first category the four-way break Charley just continues to get stronger with SB.
And what we are seeing a little bit of is while Wausau was very strong some of the targeting campaign services offers are -- got a little bit slower nothing that we’re alarmed about that got a little bit slower in the quarter.
I mean this is some small tweaking.
The problem we have we keep giving you guys more and more information if it moves by $1 million you guys start thinking there is something alarming.
I wouldn’t think that way; I think that’s just a framework.
And I’m not alarmed by that at all.
Nor am I.
Thank you for that.
And then just lastly on the cash flow statement this looks like you spent roughly $28 million on acquisitions in the quarter anymore color you can give there? Thanks.
Again part of what you have to remember and we don’t always pay for the acquisitions all at one time.
So when we do a deal we have a tendency to do hold backs.
And depending on how the hold backs operator the dollar amount of the hold backs they can spike up within a quarter or whenever that hold back payment is due.
So that’s why you saw a more of spike this quarter overall than what you would traditionally see.
Thank you.
And that does conclude our Q&amp;A period for today.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Lee Schram for any closing remarks.
Let me just thank everybody for your participation and for all the questions.
I wanted to summarize in four points.
First we delivered an outstanding second quarter; second we exceeded both our revenue and earnings outlook; third marketing solutions and other services revenues grew over 31% and the mix improved towards our goal of 30% of total company revenue in 2015 and 40% in 2018; and four we had a very strong first half of the year which we believe propels us towards revenue growth again in 2015 for the sixth consecutive year.
We’re now going to roll up our sleeves get back to work and we look forward to providing a positive progress report on our next earnings call.
I’m going to turn it over to Ed for some final housekeeping.
Thanks Lee.
Before we conclude today’s call I’d just like to mention that Deluxe management will be participating in a few upcoming events in the third quarter where you can hear more about our transformation.
On August 4th we will be in Boston at the UBS Midcap Conference; on August 5th we will be in New York at the Needham &amp; Company Interconnect Conference; and we will also be at the Minneapolis Investment Conference on August 5th; and on September 10th we’ll be in New York City at the CL King Conference.
Thank you for joining us.
And that concludes the Deluxe second quarter 2015 earnings call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This concludes the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Deluxe Corporation Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today’s conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Ed Merritt Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Candis and welcome everyone to the Deluxe Corporation’s third quarter 2015 earnings call.
I’m Ed Merritt Deluxe’s Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Joining me on today’s call are Lee Schram our Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson our Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of today’s prepared remarks Lee Terry and I will take questions if there are any.
I’d like to remind you that comments made today regarding financial estimates projections and management’s intentions and expectations regarding the Company’s future performance are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the press release we issued this morning as well as the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014.
The financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in greater detail in today’s press release which was furnished to the SEC on the Form 10-K filed by the Company this morning.
The press release is also posted on our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP measures in the press release.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Q3 was yet another strong quarter and we are now well-positioned to grow revenue for the full year of 6% despite a continued sluggish economic environment.
If achieved 2015 will represent the sixth consecutive year of revenue growth.
The last time we achieved sixth consecutive years of revenue growth dates back 19 years to 1996.
We’ve reported revenue in the third quarter in line with our outlook and adjusted earnings per share exceeded the high-end of our outlook.
Revenue grew more than 6% over the prior year quarter driven by financial services revenue growth of 20% and small business services revenue growth at 4%.
Small business services revenue was negatively impacted by foreign exchange headwinds and initial challenges with a migration to a start-of-the-art new eCommerce platform that is now running very well.
Checks and forms performed well.
And marketing solutions and other services revenues grew 29% over the prior year.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew a very strong 13% over prior year and we generated strong operating cash flow of $72 million for the quarter.
We repurchased $47 million of common stock in the quarter.
We continued our brand awareness campaign with the release of our full length Small Business Revolution documentary to help improve our brand awareness and perception.
We also advanced process improvements and delivered on our cost reduction expectations in the quarter.
We will celebrate our official 100 year anniversary on November 23 2015 with the ringing of the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange.
We also announced on October 19th that we acquired Datamyx which will further enhance our financial services marketing solutions and other services product set by providing valuable marketing tools and other analytical services our customers need to help them grow their business.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps.
but first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of $1.13 which included $0.03 per share for restructuring and transaction related charges.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $1.16 exceeded the upper end of our previous outlook and was 12.6% higher than the $1.03 reported in the third quarter of 2014.
The restructuring and transaction related charges are primarily for employee severance the closer of a leased facility and small acquisitions in the quarter.
Revenue for the quarter was $440 million which was an increase of 6.4% over last year or about 2% excluding the impact of the Wausau acquisition.
Small business services revenue of $289 million grew 3.9% versus last year despite a continuing sluggish economic environment and unfavorable foreign exchange rates which negatively impacted revenue growth by 1.2 percentage points in the quarter as well as initial challenges in the quarter from an internal migration to a new state-of-the-art eCommerce platform that is now running very well.
We delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services.
And from a channel perspective our online Safeguard distributor major accounts and dealer channels all grew.
Small business services revenue also benefited from price increases implemented in the first quarter.
Financial services revenue of $111 million grew 20.4% versus the third quarter of last year and would have been about flat excluding Wausau.
Higher marketing solutions and other services revenue driven by Wausau and Deluxe Rewards price increases and revenue from Zion’s Bank more than offset the impact of lower check orders.
Direct Checks revenue of $40 million was down nearly 7% from last year and in line with our expectations.
From a product revenue perspective checks were $216 million representing 49% of total revenue; forms accessories and other business products were $92 million or 21% of revenue; and marketing solutions and other services were $132 million which was 30% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 63.8% of revenue which was up slightly from 2014.
The increase was primarily driven by previous price increases improvements in the services revenue margin and improvements in manufacturing productivity to partially offset by product revenue mix and higher delivery and material costs.
SG&amp;A expense increased $13.9 million in the quarter which was 43.1% of revenue compared to 42.5% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost reduction initiatives in all three segments were offset by increased SG&amp;A and financial services associated with the Wausau acquisition and our efforts to grow the small business distributor channel.
Excluding restructuring and transaction related charges in both 2015 and 2014 and the asset impairment charge in 2014 adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 20.8% which was down slightly from the 21.2% generated in 2014.
Financial services and Direct Checks delivered operating margin better than our exceptions while small business services margin was in inline.
Small business services adjusted operating margin of 18.4% was down 0.1 percentage point from the prior year.
Financial services adjusted operating margin of 21.9% was down 1.3 points from 2014 driven by Wausau acquisition amortization expenses and check usage declines partially offset by continued cost reductions.
Although Wausau was accretive to earnings in the third quarter the financial services adjusted operating margin was negatively impacted 2.4 points from the business.
Direct Checks adjusted operating margin of 35.3% increased 1 percentage point from 2014 driven by a higher mix of reorders and lower costs which more than offset the lower order volume.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statements total debt at the end of the quarter was $519 million which was down $35 million or 6% from December 2014 and included the impact of repurchasing $47 million of common stock in the quarter.
Cash provided by operating activities for the first three quarters was $217.9 million a $14.6 million increase compared to the first three quarters of 2014.
The increase was driven primarily by improved operating performance and lower interest payments partially offset by higher income tax and performance based compensation payments.
Capital expenditures for the first three quarters of 2015 were $29.5 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $54.4 million.
On October 19 we announced that acquired 100% of privately held Datamyx or $160 million net using a draw on our expanded credit facility.
During the remainder of 2015 the acquisition is expected to generate revenue of approximately $7 million and be approximately $0.04 dilutive to adjusted EPS after absorbing acquisition related amortization expense.
In addition we estimate that transaction expenses of approximately $0.02 per share will also be recorded in the fourth quarter.
Given our performance in the third quarter the addition of Datamyx adjusting for the unfavorable impact from a stronger U.S.
dollar and a slightly weaker expectation for the upcoming holiday season offerings in small business.
We are adjusting our consolidated revenue outlook range for the year to $1.765 billion to $1.775 billion.
We are also modifying our adjusted diluted earnings per share to an expected range of $4.51 to $4.57 which excludes $0.20 related to restructuring debt extinguishment and transaction related costs.
There are several key factors that contributes to our full year outlook including small business services revenue is expected to increase 4% to 5% as volume declines in core business products lower SEM SEO revenue from our decision announced in the third quarter of 2014 to exit unprofitable business and an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of approximately $11 million are expected to be more than offset by benefits from our eCommerce investments price increases growth in our Safeguard distributor dealer and major account channels and double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings.
We expect financial services revenue to increase 15% to 16% driven by continued growth from marketing solutions and other services revenue including Wausau Deluxe Rewards and Datamyx higher revenue per order and a full year of Zion’s partially offset by recurring check order declines of slightly over 6% and some pricing pressure including the impact of the large customer renewal early in the second quarter of 2014.
A Direct Checks revenue decline of 6% driven by lower check order volume stemming from secular declines in check usage and eliminating marketing expenditures that no longer meet our return criteria a continued sluggish economy full year costs and expense reductions of approximately $50 million net of investments increases in medical expenses material costs and delivery rates continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced Internet capabilities lower interest expense and an effective tax rate of approximately 34% which assumes that the 2015 research and development tax credit legislation is enacted before year end.
We expect to continue generating storng operating cash flows and it tightened our estimate for the year to a range of $300 million to $305 million in 2015 which reflects additional transaction and restructuring related payments versus the prior outlook.
Compared to 2014 stronger operating performance and lower interest payments partially offset by higher tax transactional related and performance based compensation payments are the primary drivers of the increase.
We continue to expect annual contract acquisition payments to be approximately $15 million.
2015 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 million about the same as 2014 as we continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be approximately $77 million including approximately $33 million of acquisition related amortization.
For the fourth quarter of 2015 we expect revenue to range from $456 million to $466 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $1.18 to $1.24 which excludes $0.02 per share related to Datamyx transaction related cost.
In comparison to the third quarter revenue is expected to be higher in the fourth quarter primarily due to seasonal holiday spending tax forums some small business healthcare forums rollouts and a continued ramp in marketing solutions and other services revenue including again $7 million from the Datamyx acquisition.
Adjusted EPS is expected to increase primarily from higher revenue.
Shifting to our capital structure in conjunction with the acquisition of Datamyx earlier in the month we exercised our option in the existing credit facility and expanded its total size to $525 million.
As of the date of the acquisition we were drawn approximately $428 million on our expanded credit facility.
Looking ahead we expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organically and through small to medium-sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
Additionally we expect to continue paying a quarterly dividend and periodically repurchase common stock.
To the extent we generate excess cash.
We plan to reduce the amounts outstanding against our credit facility and we may from time to time consider retiring additional outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our increasing cash flow strong balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I’ll conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives which again are coming from all three business segments.
Overall we had a solid third quarter as we delivered on our expected cost and expense reductions towards our $50 million annual commitment net of investments.
Approximately 55% of the $50 million in expected reductions will come from sales and marketing another 40% from fulfillment and the remaining 5% coming from our shared services organizations.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2015 continues to be on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation leveraging sales and marketing efficiencies including integration from recent acquisitions.
In fulfillment we expect to continue our lean direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms drive delivery technology and process efficiencies reduce spoilage further enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce expenses primarily in IT but we are also working opportunities in finance and real estate.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Terry.
I will continue my comments with an update on our key revenue growth area marketing solutions and other services including some details on the Datamyx acquisition.
I will then highlight progress in each of our three segments and finally provide some context looking forward to 2016 including strategic focused areas.
Our primary focus continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues towards our goal of 40% by 2018.
Here we will focus on growing organically as well as continuing to assess potential small to medium-sized acquisitions that complement our large customer base and add new technologies.
We have strengthened our channels in small business to include financial institutions online retail wholesale Safeguard distributors dealers and major accounts.
Deluxe is now more capable of helping small businesses pursue their passion as a trusted provider of a growing suite of products and services of small business needs to market and operate their business and helping financial institutions with customer acquisition fraud security and risk management and commercial and treasury services offers.
Here is some color on our latest acquisition.
Datamyx is a premier technology enabled marketing data and analytics provider specializing and helping financial services institutions to find convert and grow customers.
Their solutions are powered by a proprietary software-as-a-service platform that leverages thousands of attributes tri-bureau credit and other risk related data as well as sophisticated analytics enable their customers to create measurable marketing programs that attract and engage highly targeted qualified consumers.
Datamyx helps customers maximize response rates increase marketing efficiencies growth revenue and improve customer retention.
They have a highly advanced technology platform that provides actionable insights that help maximize return on investment for customer acquisition cross-selling and retention marketing strategies.
Again we expect revenue for the balance of 2015 to be approximately $4 million and expect this will be about $0.04 dilutive to adjusted EPS this year.
Next year we expect revenue to be approximately $42 million with strong double-digit EBITDA margins.
And we expect Datamyx to be slightly dilutive by about $0.01 per share and be dilutive in total less than six months from the acquisition date.
Strategically this acquisition strengthens our commitment to the financial institution market marking another meaningful step forward in our evolution to becoming a more diverse provider of financial services FinTech solutions to our financial institution clients.
Datamyx employes a subscription based pricing model that drives repeat sales of data services with nearly 90% of monthly recurring revenue.
We believe this provides us with a sizable sticky growing annuitized services business.
As of Boca Raton based company this is a strong fit with our same city Deluxe Rewards base business.
Datamyx’s largest customers include Quicken Loans Commerce Bank and Capital One.
In summary with access to a proven player in growing markets this acquisition enhances our competitive position as a FinTech provider and in line with our strategy will further increase our marketing solutions and other services revenue mix.
With this acquisition we now believe that our two largest segments representing over 90% of our revenue are well positioned for organic growth.
We are really excited about this acquisition and welcome Datamyx employees to the Deluxe team.
Here is an update on our four sub-categories framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We ended the third quarter right in line with our expectations in revenue with mix in the four sub-categories basically in line with our expectations.
First small business marketing is expected to represent approximately 39% of revenue in 2015 with expected growth in the mid-20s this year driven by scaling web-to-print and marketing solutions offers as well as the fourth quarter traditionally is our strongest quarter for retail packaging and promotional products.
In the third quarter strong double-digits growth was driven by new wins in the financial advisor real estate and service franchise association verticals that are using our comprehensive marketing solutions offers.
The second category web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO email marketing social and payroll services is expected to represent approximately 21% of revenue in 2015 with expected decline rates in the mid-single digits but low single-digit growth excluding our earlier announced decision to exit some unprofitable revenue in the SEM/SEO space and the impact of foreign exchange rates.
In the third quarter we saw strong double-digit growth in direct web services offers and growth on a constant currency basis and payroll services.
We closed the third quarter with approximately 910 000 web hosting customers.
We also acquired Jumpline a very small web services business that provides us with strategic control panel or commonly called C-panel technology capabilities.
The third category fraud security risk management and operational services is expected to be about flat in 2015 and represent approximately 16% of revenue.
Key focused areas for growth in this category in addition to our standard fraud and security offerings include performance management by adding Banker’s Dashboard customers including tablet and new credit solution offers as well as strategic sourcing new financial intuition wins.
In addition we also expect growth from scaling eChecks with opportunities ranging from adding eChecks to our distributor dealer and major accounts channels to also scaling in many areas where we do not sell paper checks today.
Q3 was our best revenue quarter ever for eChecks and we have opportunities with larger financial institutions paper rebate medical and insurance clearing houses and other document management and payment solution companies.
20% of all eCheck customers are new customers who have not purchased a paper check from Deluxe in the last six years.
Finally other financial institution services are expected to represent approximately 24% of revenue in 2015 with expected growth rates in very strong double-digits.
Key growth initiatives here include adding new financial institution customers and targeting and campaign services and scaling Deluxe Rewards Wausau financial services and our latest acquisition Datamyx.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $533 million in 2015 up from $427 million in 2014 with growth of approximately 10% excluding the Wausau acquisition.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 30% of revenue up from almost 26% in 2014 and 22% and 19% the previous two years.
We continue to target growing marketing solutions and other services as a percent of total company revenue to approximately 40% by 2018 with checks expected to represent approximately 40% of revenue and business products expected to represent approximately 20% of revenue.
Now shifting to our segments in small business services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remains sluggish and foreign exchange rates continue to deteriorate.
Revenue grew 4% and was negatively impacted by foreign exchange headwinds as well as challenges from the migration to a new eCommerce technology platform with checks and forms the primary product shortfall drivers to the high-end of our revenue outlook.
Results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved and average order value and conversion rates improved.
Our online Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw growth in small business marketing solutions web and payroll services while SEM/SEO services declined in line with our earlier decision to exit some unprofitable channels.
Again we ended the quarter with approximately $910 000 web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market and so far the economic indices appear to be consistent with our previous expectations and what we planned into our outlook.
Optimism indices increased slightly to start the quarter in July and continued to improve in August but basically ended unchanged in September rising only 0.2 points.
Optimism momentum in the fourth quarter of 2014 shifted downward in the first quarter and then continue to shift further downward in the second quarter but improved slightly in the third quarter.
The outlook on business conditions expectations continues to be negative and the percentage of small businesses planning capital outlays over the next three to six months ended at a weak 25% reading.
In summary current optimism indices remains sluggish.
The good news is that other than taxes and regulation increasing sales continues to be a small business owner’s number one pain point and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers.
Deluxe is better positioned as that indispensable partner for growth.
In financial services we saw the rate of decline of checks perform just over 6%.
We continue to expect the unit decline rate for the year will be just over 6%.
We had strong overall new acquisition rates and our retention rates remain strong on deals pending in the current quarter.
We simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing non-check marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunities.
Wausau revenue was approximately $19 million which met our expectations and we had strong bookings in the quarter helping us to build backlog.
Some that will rollout in the fourth quarter but most that will rollout in 2016.
We already have about 6% higher backlog at the end of Q3 this year compared with last year that is targeted for 2016 revenue.
So we are encouraged about growing Wausau revenue in 2016.
Deluxe Rewards continued to perform very well in the third quarter including starting a new customer pilot opportunity.
For 2015 we expect non-check marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately 37% of total FS revenue driven by Wausau revenue of approximately $75 million; fraud security risk management and operational services revenue of approximately $40 million; Deluxe Rewards revenue of approximately $30 million; and targeting campaign and activation services revenues of approximately $23 million.
Overall we continue to be pleased with the Wausau acquisition.
Wausau was $0.02 accretive to diluted – to adjusted diluted EPS in the third quarter and we expect it to be slightly accretive in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
In Direct Checks revenue met our expectations.
We continue to look for opportunities to provide accessories and other check-related products and services to our consumers as well as work on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best-in-class direct-to-consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through our call center scripting and up-sell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
Our direct checks expectations for the year are slightly better.
Previously we guided to a decline of 6% to 7% but now we believe the decline will be closer to 6% driven by continued declines in consumer usage in a sluggish economy.
We anticipate that marketing solutions and other services revenue which is primarily fraud and security offers for this segment to be about 10% of Direct Checks revenue.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in this segment and continue to deliver operating margins in the low-to-mid 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit the third quarter on the heels of a strong performance in a continued sluggish economy we have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe but we still have many opportunities ahead of us.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter and into 2016 we believe our portfolio is even better positioned to deliver continued sustainable revenue growth.
As our technologies and sales channels were stronger; our digital technology services more mature; our infrastructure better; and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
2016 we are planning for what we expect to be a seventh consecutive year of revenue growth of approximately 4% to 6% including the Datamyx acquisition are almost 2% to 3% organic growth compared to 2015.
This is expected to produce adjusted diluted earnings per share growth ranging from approximately 5% to 8% including an expected $0.01 per share dilution from Datamyx.
With the assumption that we will invest more in brand awareness benefit from a reduction in interest expense and have a tax rate roughly comparable to 2015.
To give some more color on our revenue thinking.
We are planning on consumer checks through financial institutions to decline approximately 6% to 7% on a secular basis.
On top of this we have extended all large financial institution contracts through at least 2016 with the exception of one that we are working to extend.
And we have about 20% pure community bank contracts upper renewal in 2016 compared to 2015.
And we have more competitive opportunities come in due.
In business products we expect to expand existing organic initiatives in shop Deluxe our Canadian business into add distributors dealers and major accounts.
In marketing solutions and other services we expect organic revenue growth roughly in the low double-digits.
To give some more color here under the thinking.
If we annualize 2015 expected revenue organically grow roughly in the low double-digits and add revenue from the Datamyx acquisition is full imply a targeted marketing solution and other services revenue to total revenue mix of approximately 34% for the year.
We are excited with our progress here.
And with the more collaborative economy and continued possible additional tuck-in acquisitions with catalyst we could potentially grow marketing solutions and other services even faster toward our goal of 40% of revenue mix by 2018.
We also expect our cost and expense reduction initiatives to continue in 2016.
From a housekeeping standpoint each quarter in 2016 has the same number of business days as of 2015.
Also as a reminder the first quarter is traditionally Direct Checks strongest revenue quarter of the year.
And in line with our earlier comments on Datamyx’s dilution we expect Datamyx to be dilutive to Q1 by approximately $0.01.
It is extremely important for us to see how the fourth quarter progresses and to closely monitor the marketplace and economy over the next three months before proving more specific outlook details for 2016.
Finally we are introducing today eight strategic focused areas including three for financial services and five for small business services that we will provide regular update on through the balance of 2016.
Here is a little color of each starting with financial services.
The first strategic focused area is retail banking and includes checks marketing services and rewards loyalty.
For checks our focus is on improving retention rates and gaining share.
From marketing services our focus is on leveraging Datamyx data and analytics together with marketing services campaign execution to accelerate outsourced campaign targeting and multi-channel execution.
For rewards and loyalty our focus is on profitably growing Deluxe Rewards revenue.
The second FS strategic focus area is commercial banking and includes treasury management and profitably growing Wausau revenue and assessing and executing tuck-in acquisitions along with assessing other adjacent opportunities in commercial banking.
The third FS strategic focus area is performance management and includes scaling Banker’s Dashboard and strategic sourcing.
Next for small business services we have created a four quadrant matrix to frame four of the five strategic focused areas.
First for market your business products which includes small business marketing solutions our focused areas are profitably scaling integrated marketing on demand solution offers.
With the largest opportunity and major account verticals including automotive financial services healthcare hospitality real estate service franchises and telcos.
Second market your business services which includes web services offers our focused areas are improving operating income by optimizing product portfolio channels and operations.
Delivering partnerships an acquisitive opportunities that will “double down” on existing capabilities and address gaps within our portfolio like cPanel where we just completed the Jumpline technology tuck-in acquisition and providing our integrated Deluxe marketing suite across all customers and channels.
Third for operate your business products which includes checks forms and accessories our customer acquisition and retention and improving Safeguard distributor process and profitability.
Fourth operate your business services which includes primarily fraud and security eChecks and payroll services and where our focus is on scaling eChecks assessing adjacent offer extensions like checks and eChecks for eDeposit variable check printing and remotely created checks and payroll time tracking and billing as well as continuing to evaluate potential partnership and acquisition operating services opportunities.
The fifth small business services opportunity is continuing to improve brand awareness.
Before I give a little sense of where we are headed in 2016 let me first share a current progress update.
Our intent for 2015 has been to raise brand awareness by leveraging our 100-year anniversary through a purposeful content-based campaign.
To celebrate our 100th year we are telling the stories of 100 small businesses across the country through a documentary and photo essay series.
These stories have been released throughout the year via our social channels and live on SmallBusinessRevolution.org.
We have now released nine mini documentaries and 77 photo essays through the third quarter.
The reaction has been very positive and has resulted in quite a bit of earned media attention with nearly 1.4 billion impressions and 430 new stories on radio television and print.
We also released a full length documentary at the end of September emphasizing the importance of small business in America.
This 25 minute film featured small business owners from our 100 stories as well as key small business experts including the U.S.
Small Business Administration Maria Contreras-Sweet David Bobbitt from SCORE and other small business authors and experts.
Robert Herjavec from Shark Tank was also featured in the documentary and joined us in the small business revolution providing great advocacy and visibility for our movement with the media and with social media.
We are very pleased with our results and will continue to build momentum around the small business revolution in the fourth quarter and into 2016.
In 2016 we will be telling more stories and packaging great advice for other small business owners from the 100 businesses that we featured in 2015.
We will also be producing a web series with Robert Herjavec that showcases small businesses while incorporating marketing lessons from Deluxe.
Another exciting partnership with Robert as their key has enlisted Deluxe to provide marketing support to the businesses key investing on Shark Tank.
We see these efforts as a great platform to continue to increase our brand awareness with the small business community.
Now Candis will pass and then Terry Ed and I will open the line up for any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Jamie Clement of Macquarie.
Your line is now open.
Lee Terry Ed good morning.
Good morning Jamie.
Hi Jamie.
So you provided a lot of extra information on the call and I think if I get the transcript I might be able to actually get an answer to this question.
But I’m fair I will just ask you this now anyway.
If you look at FI I don’t know where you want to look at on a nine months to-date basis or just for Q3.
So free Datamyx on the plus side you got growth and services you got the Zions Bank ad and then on the negative side you got just ordinary ongoing decline in check volume.
So I think in the prepared remarks you said that without Wausau revenue organically would have been about flat in the third quarter.
Did I hear that right? Correct.
Yes Jamie that is correct it was about flat.
And that is actually a trend that we’ve seen since the beginning of the year.
So this is really our third quarter in a row now well that’s been flat throwing out the impacts of the Wausau acquisition which is the only acquisition in that segment causing non-comparability.
Okay so then I mean listen I mean investors can make their – make up their own minds and this in – obviously between Zions and SunTrust and Citizens you have some account wins in recent years but let’s say we were to say okay well we don’t want to model in a big account win every year.
If we try to strip out the impact of Zions on this year what does that kind of – what does that rate of decline look like organically in Q3 or the nine months whatever you want it… Let me do this Jamie let me go back to what we mentioned in the script here and talk about where we think we are going here.
So by being able to – we’ve been asked a lot of questions even very public about this.
Do we have enough services new technologies new financial technology within FS to be able to get it to grow organically? Right.
And I’ve been very candid with investors and with – in public we’ve asked and talked about this the answer up till now I think is no.
we’re getting close but that’s what I’ve said that’s the goal.
We talked about that openly.
The reason why we think that’s the goal is that we got small business growing.
If we can now get financial services growing organically we now have 90% plus the company growing organically.
And we believe that the Datamyx deal when it runs its course then runs the sweep obviously you’ll have a non-comparable year-on-year.
But when it runs its course and when yet as we believe and Wausau as we believe and the less rewards as we believe and our other offers that we have.
We have some other fine services offers behind there.
Scale we believe we have the ability now to get organic growth as we look forward and this is exciting for us.
We got to execute we understand that but we have the opportunity now that we able to do that and that’s without any further large account wins.
Right.
Okay that’s very helpful.
And what you just said – a second question just on SBS now if I may.
The eCommerce platform you talked about it a few times in your prepared remarks what is that doing for customers – previously they weren’t getting.
Can you talk about kind of the functionality and really what the benefit for them? Let me explain what happened here.
This is a shoot ourselves in the foot.
What happened is we have a technology that we’ve build this platform off of.
And it’s a wonderful technology.
But what we’ve done over time as we customize it way too much along the way so we made the decision.
This is extremely thought-through decision of moving to the latest technology where all the customization change is no longer there.
So it’s a clean standard offer.
And the actual production is at between my marketing team and my IT team went really well.
The foolish thing that I think we did is we assumed protection.
We assumed that all of the helpful things that we think this will mean from customers.
Think of it everything from easier checkout being able to find things on the site this is the shop Deluxe site being able to take that and can fix things that they want need we bet a little too heavy in the quarter on that.
And again as we said in the script our year on this one but we’re through it we got it working well now.
We’re excited about what we’ve done.
We probably just expected a little too much perfect execution on this compared to how we should have thought about it.
Okay.
But behind us we’re excited about it and we think this will be great and what we’ve already seen is really helpful for our customers as we move forward.
Okay that is – that’s very helpful.
Let me get back in the queue.
Thanks very much for your time as always.
You’re welcome James.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Joan Tong of Sidoti and Company.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
How are you guys doing? Hi Joan.
Hi good Joan.
Very good.
I’m glad that you finally come to the conclusion that like you have all the right tools and segments to grow your – business to grow your financials over the segment.
We’ve been watching it closely.
The organic growth has been flat nd actually you stopped the decline of three quarters already.
So going forward we have position for growth as well and I’m glad that you finally come to the conclusion.
And so how about like a little bit on the margin side we know that financial services are going to grow and we look at the operating margin it’s still a little bit weak compared to last year.
We understand that you still have loss all day and now you have Datamyx going forward.
How should we think about operating margin for financial services over the next couple of quarters? Yes Joan we did mention in the prepared remarks.
I mentioned that the Wausau impact even though it was $0.02 accretive to EPS from a margin perspective it still did pull that average margin down in financial services by 2.4 percentage points.
So really what you’re seeing there is the continued run through of the amortization expense from the – primarily from the Wausau acquisition that is pulling that down a little bit.
So those amortization expenses will temper over time as we see lower amounts coming through.
But all said and done we don’t expect significant changes in the margin there.
Last year if you were to go back some of our calls from last year last year [indiscernible] things happening that that gave us a little better than expected margin in a couple of the quarters that we did not expect to repeat.
So kind of in that low 20s it’s kind of a really good and probably a spot that you should expect on a go forward basis as well.
Okay okay.
That’s fair.
And then Lee on the small-medium sized – small and medium business segment I think in the past you mentioned that like some of the growth of the channel business it’s going to be a little bit back-end loaded.
And so have you seen the growth materialize other than like the challenges you are seeing in the eCommerce and all that that actually drag your growth rate for this quarter and you lower like small medium of business growth rates by 1%.
But just in terms of the channels just want to get some color as to… Yes.
Whether we see the materialization there? Yes well first of all the biggest reason why dropped is that the exchange rates has continued to go against us right.
So if we recorded a true organic growth in that segment – look at the quarter 3.9% growth 1.2% hit from foreign exchange we have been up over 5%.
So that is really the primary driver of it Joan in the near-term why we made that adjustment.
It’s just map off of unfortunately where the exchange rates have moved.
Then back to your question on where is it going the seasonality.
As we kind of said in the prepared remarks we have historically seen a stronger fourth quarter when some of those small business marketing solutions around retail packaging and around the holiday offerings that we have both E holidays as well as paper holiday check or paper holiday card offers.
And then we just hope to see the natural progression in other small business marketing promo apparel and all that.
That’s really where you get the bigger fourth quarter impact.
But what’s starting to happen here and we mentioned on the last call and we highlighted today and the comments in the quarter but we also highlighted it is a focused area for next years.
We are starting to see a small business marketing catalyst to what we call it as major accounts channel I tried to laid out all the verticals and what we hope to do as we move forward is to be able to showcase wins that we’re seeing in there which are continuing and I mentioned several wins in those being able to get some of those public names out there.
And then talking more and more about what we’re doing to build everything from business cards the small business marketing to email marketing services to web services and packaging those all up and using that as a catalyst for growth on that space.
It happened again this quarter.
Look at – I said we had very strong growth there.
We predicted strong growth in the year to continue so like that a lot.
We did mention that we’re a little concerned with the holiday season and it’s just the things that you read too.
So for example the National Retail Federation came back and said yes we expect growth but we expect less growth now this year than we had before.
So we’re just tendering a bit.
We think it’s just smart – given what’s going on in the sluggish economy and some of those offers are in that space.
So we did a little slight tweak there in that that we mentioned in the prepared remarks as well.
So bullish on this like it like what we’re doing and now got that focus with hope we’ll be able to use as a platform we’ll be able to talk to investors as we move forward in the next year.
Right right that’s fair.
And then in terms of like you know maybe I’m drilling down a little bit like further.
The web services business is a little bit weak.
We understand that like the decline is due to the search business.
But I think that like you’re kind of lapping that one year anniversary towards the year-end.
So how should we think about it maybe in 2016 that part of the business? Can we finally see some growth there? Yes we’ll see growth.
And then we’re not trying to get it down to the sub-categories growth numbers next year Joan but absolutely we expect growth there.
And this Deluxe marketing suite and some of the stuff that we’re putting in there and the way we’re bringing at all all those offers together between the logo and the web and the email marketing.
And then I’ll also talk as we get into the [indiscernible] about other partnerships and capabilities that we’re adding and we’ll get added into the fourth quarter.
That will help us to get more growth as we go forward.
So yes we’re excited about it.
We’ll clear the search from last year and we’ll get some growth there in the New Year.
And Joan that category to the web services is also where we saw FX impact negative impact… Okay.
That further brought that category down this year.
Okay got it.
And then finally Terry can you just remind us again like what is the drag for foreign exchange as well as the tax rate that you anticipate for the full year in terms of bottom line? Yes the FX on a year-over-year basis for the full year is $11 million and that’s just under about $3 million of operating income impact as well as on profitability.
And so $11 million for the full year and about just under $3 millions of operating income.
And then for tax rate? And then the tax rate – the tax rate kind of at that 34% that – that its a higher rate versus what we had last year.
It’s roughly about $0.06 dilutive to the tax rate that we had last year.
Okay great.
And again I just want to remind you to that that does assume that just a R&amp;D credit legislation that that still have to be passed yet for 2015 period.
Our assumption in that guidance does assume that that legislation does get enacted before the end of the year.
Okay all right.
Thank you guys.
Thank you Joan.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Tim Klasell of Northland Securities.
Your line is now open.
Hi great.
Thank you very much.
Just wanted to dive into some quick questions on Datamyx before a few broader questions here.
I missed it you guys said it’s the 2016 revenue expectation? $42 million.
Okay.
And you mentioned it’s going to be $0.01 dilutive.
But if we ex-outs the amortization what was the cash flow contribution? I’m assuming it would be positive.
Very – yes yes very positive.
Okay.
Very positive and then – as we mentioned in the prepared comments Tim there’s very strong EBITDA margins.
Got it got it.
Then jumping over to some of the other details the marketing initiatives that you no longer met your return what sort of marketing initiatives is that? Within direct to consumer? Yes.
Yes.
Look here the kind of – we have to think about all the ways we can get a consumers.
We can send an email out through our list that we have to the remaining people the right way obviously The Consumer Protection Act right way so to speak.
We can also put things in flyers and print.
We also have relationships with the people through what we call freestanding inserts Tim where we can put something out there.
What we look at as we constantly challenging ourselves with all those various kinds of direct marketing which ones returned better than others.
And this is a Doggett way of just staying after this all the time.
And so what we do as we make decisions on which things are good for us which things are not and that we – I’m not going to tell you exactly which ones we’ve stepped away from but there’s things that we’ve stepped back from.
And we think there are smart moves we’ve been able to continue to see good revenue there based on the decline rates of the consumer checks and yet good place in terms of our profit profile.
Okay good.
And then getting the financial services back to growth the one question I’ve gotten is you had the unit declines of just a little over 6% for this year.
How about the revenues? Do you often been able to outpace that by selling higher value checks in options? How’s the revenues on… Yes it’s declined less than that.
And the reason is a couple I mean overall it’s declined less than that and it goes back to a little bit to Jamie brought up around.
We’ve been able to get some nice wins added to that.
But it’s also when we’re able to make a price change for passing on – generally as per passing on the postal delivery rate increases they have or productivity improvements that we have with the way that our financial institution runs their check program.
Tim we can give them a cost reduction benefit and therefore get a little bit more revenue for doing that.
So those are the kinds of things I don’t have an exact number I don’t think [indiscernible] so but anyway it would be less than that Tim.
Okay good.
And then finally I think that your target of 40% MOS revenues or revenue 40% – of your revenues coming from MOS by 2018.
Or if I look at what you’re going to do in 2016 and sort of a put on the 10% growth rate you could get there it seems like with organic or you would need to do anymore acquisitions.
Yes it’s really interesting we said – this is a question that’s been asked consistently and we responded consistently that we say a little bit not a lot.
We don’t need some big thing to get us there if we can continue to execute.
But we get a little help along the way which we’ve been seeing here and that’s the way we’re thinking about.
But you’re right we don’t need a lot we just need to continue to execute and get the growth on the things that we’re doing.
And imagine if we could get some other catalyst as we said in the prepared remarks.
That gives us even more of an opportunity.
Okay good enough.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate your time.
You’re welcome Tim.
Thank you.
And we have time for one last question.
It will come from the line of Charley Strauzer of CJS Securities.
Your line is now open.
Charley? Mr.
Charley your line is now open.
Hello.
Hi Charley.
Okay I’m sorry can you hear me [indiscernible] couple of questions on Datamyx if we can continue on that a little bit can you give us a sense of the growth rates of that business over the last few years both in sales and profitability.
And also maybe a little bit better definition of what very strong double-digit EBITDA margins look like? I think of it is they have been growing very nicely double-digit revenue and double-digit operating or EBITDA growth over the last we’re not going to give a specific numbers to you Charley.
Here is – we thought we could get push down on this.
The best way that I would describe it and I want to leave it this for now because we are introducing something we know – careful competitively here is better than the average Deluxe 25% EBITDA margins.
Okay that’s very – that’s helpful.
And then I know you mentioned that also too when you’re talking about the MOS and the other services in the growth rates is that very strong double-digit growth there can we assume the same types of growth there as well or is that they different… Yes.
Okay got it.
Yes.
Great.
And then any sense in all what the amortization would look like from Datamyx in terms of the amortization of intangibles.
It’s going to take it from that strong EBITDA and it’s going to take it down to a penny dilutive.
Right.
Normal tax rate seems a little bit for interest expense and the borrowing and that will get you pretty close.
Got it okay great.
[Indiscernible].
And then on the slide deck you had on I think page – talked about SBS key strategic opportunities gave out kind of percent of revenues for SBS.
And I was hoping maybe you can give us a little bit sense of kind of the growth rates behind those kinds of quadrants if you could? Won’t yet Charley because we’re not giving full 2016 guidance yet at this point in time but we will – we’ll try to do that and we’re going to try to use it as a – and probably that’s just fits very nicely into the four cut that we kind of show today excluding the – actually three of those were getting in there.
We’ll just – we’ll clarify that as we go forward.
Those percentages are in there or what we expect the mix based on the current modelling of 2016 but we’re not going to giving specific growth rates yet at this point.
Got it.
I’ll wait for those to come out next year.
And then probably lastly the rate on the $428 million of debt under revolver; do you have kind of a sense of rate on that? Yes today we’re paying about 1.7% on that.
Excellent.
Okay thank you very much.
You’re welcome.
Thank you and I’m showing no further questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Schram for any closing remarks.
Let me just thank everybody for your participation.
We got a lot of questions – probably three or four sub-questions each personnel that was just great.
And just in summary I’ll leave you with four thoughts.
First we delivered our third strong quarter this year.
Second we are now positioned to deliver our sixth consecutive year of revenue growth.
Third we added Datamyx which enhances our marketing solutions and other services portfolio.
And finally we have established a solid foundation to grow revenue again in 2016.
So we’re going to roll up our sleeves.
We’re going to get back to work and we look forward to providing another positive progress report in our next earnings call.
And I’m going to turn it over to Ed for some final housekeeping.
Thanks Lee.
Before we conclude today’s call I’d just like to mention that Deluxe management will be participating at several upcoming events in the fourth quarter where you can hear more about our transformation.
On November 16 we will be in San Francisco at the UBS Global Technology Conference.
On November 23 we will be at the New York Stock Exchange ringing the opening bell.
And on December 3 we will be in Scottsdale at the Credit Suisse 19th Annual Technology Conference.
Thanks for joining us and this concludes the Deluxe third quarter 2015 earnings call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today’s conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Deluxe Corporation Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today’s conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ed Merritt Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Shannon and welcome everyone to the Deluxe Corporation’s fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
I’m Ed Merritt Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations and joining me on today’s call are Lee Schram our Chief Executive Officer; and Terry Peterson our Chief Financial Officer.
At the conclusion of today’s prepared remarks Lee Terry and I will take questions from analysts.
I’d like to remind you that comments made today regarding financial estimates projections and management’s intentions and expectations regarding the company’s future performance are forward-looking in nature as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
As such these comments are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Additional information about various factors that could cause actual results to differ from those projected are contained in the press release that we issued this morning as well as in the company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014.
The financial and statistical information that will be reviewed during this call is addressed in more detail in today’s press release which is posted on our Investor Relations website at deluxe.com/investor.
This information was also furnished to the SEC on the Form 8-K filed by the company this morning.
Any references to non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the comparable GAAP financial measures in the press release or as part of our remarks during this call.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Deluxe delivered our fourth strong quarter of 2015.
We reported revenue in the upper range of our outlook in spite of continued foreign exchange headwinds and adjusted earnings per share above the high end of our outlook.
Revenue grew more than 3% over the prior year quarter driven by financial services growth of 7% and small business services growth of 3%.
Marketing solutions and other services revenues grew better than 12% over the prior year and represented over 33% of total fourth quarter revenue.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share grew 6% over the prior year quarter.
We generated strong operating cash flow of $308 million for the year and we were drawn $434 million on our credit facility at year end.
We repurchased $13 million in common shares in the quarter and $60 million for the year.
We continued our brand awareness campaign to help better position our products and services offerings and drive future revenue growth.
We celebrated our 100 year anniversary as a company by ringing the opening bell on November 23 2015 on the New York Stock Exchange.
We also advanced process improvements and delivered on our $50 million cost reduction commitment.
On December 1st we completed a small tuck-in acquisition of FISC Solutions which will further enhance our financial services marketing solutions and other services product set by adding treasury management lock box database print and mailing and bank processing services.
It also adds platform redundancy for WAUSAU which is critical for risk mitigation.
FISC has already been integrated right into WAUSAU.
In a few minutes I will discuss more details around our recent progress and next steps.
But first Terry will cover our financial performance.
Thank you Lee.
Earlier today we reported diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter of $1.20 which included $0.06 per share collectively for restructuring charges and transaction cost.
Excluding these costs adjusted EPS of $1.26 exceeded the upper end of our previous outlook and was 5.9% higher than the $1.19 reported in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The restructuring charges are primarily for employee severance and infrastructure consolidations and the transaction charges related primarily to the Datamyx and FISC acquisitions.
Revenue for the quarter came in at $464 million growing 3.35% over the last year and over 5% sequentially from last quarter.
The growth rate excluding the recent Datamyx and FISC acquisitions and an unfavorable foreign exchange rate was about 2%.
Small business services revenue of $304 million grew 3.3% versus last year despite a continuing sluggish economic environment and unfavorable foreign exchange rates which negatively impacted revenue growth by 1 percentage point in the quarter.
We delivered growth in marketing solutions and other services.
And from a channel perspective our online Safeguard distributor major accounts and dealer channels grew.
Financial services revenue of $120 million grew 7.3% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
Excluding revenue from acquisitions financial services would have been down low single-digits for the quarter.
Higher marketing solutions and other services revenue driven by WAUSAU Datamyx and Deluxe Rewards price increases and revenue from Zion’s Bank more than offset the impact of lower check orders.
Direct Checks revenue of $40 million was down 6.8% from last year and in line with our expectations.
From a product revenue perspective checks were $213 million representing 46% of total revenue; forms and accessories were $98 million or 21% of total revenue; and marketing solutions and other services were $153 million which was 33% of total revenue.
Gross margin for the quarter was 63% of revenue which was flat with 2014.
The impact of previous price increases improvements in the services revenue margin and improvements in manufacturing productivity were offset by product revenue mix and higher delivery productivity were offset by product revenue mix and higher delivery and material cost.
SG&amp;A expense increased 4% in the quarter and was 43.1% of revenue compared to 42.8% of revenue in the same period last year.
Benefits from our continuing cost reduction initiatives in all three segments were offset by increased SG&amp;A in financial services associated with the recent acquisitions and our efforts to grow small business direct sales channel.
Excluding restructuring and transaction related charges in both 2015 and 2014 and the loss on the sale lease back in 2014 adjusted operating margin for the quarter was 20.5% which was roughly flat with the 20.6% generated in 2014.
Financial services delivered an operating margin better than our exceptions while small business services and Direct Checks margins were in line with our expectations.
Small business services adjusted operating margin was very strong at 18.8% an increased 0.8 percentage points from the prior year.
This operating margin is the highest since the fourth quarter of 2013 when we were spending less on brand awareness.
Financial services adjusted operating margin of 20% was down 2.7 points from 2014 driven by WAUSAU Datamyx and FISC acquisition amortization expenses and check usage declines partially offset by continued cost reductions.
WAUSAU was accretive to earnings in the fourth quarter but the financial services adjusted operating margin was negatively impacted 4.9 points from WAUSAU Datamyx and FISC.
Direct Checks adjusted operating margin of 35.7% increased 2.2 percentage points from 2014 driven by a higher mix of reorders and lower costs which more than offset the lower order volume.
Turning to the balance sheet and cash flow statement at year-end total debt outstanding was $631 million up from $554 million at the end of 2014.
The 2015 amount included $434 million drawn against our credit facility.
Cash provided by operating activities for the year was $307.9 million a $27.5 million increase compared to 2014.
Higher earnings and changes in working capital were partially offset by higher performance based compensation and income tax payments.
Capital expenditures for the year were $43 million and depreciation and amortization expense was $77 million.
Other significant financing and investing activities in 2015 included refinancing our $200 million notes due in 2019 with lower rate debt investing $213 million in acquisitions the largest one being Datamyx using $60 million to repurchase common stock and distributing $60 million to shareholders through dividends.
Looking ahead to 2016 we expect the consolidated revenue on a full year basis to range from $1.835 billion to $1.875 billion.
Diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $4.75 to $4.95.
There are several key factors that contribute to our full year outlook including small business services revenue is expected to increase 4% to 7% as volume declines in core business products and the negative impact of foreign exchange rates are expected to be offset by growth in our online distributor dealer and major accounts channels price increases double-digit growth in marketing solutions and other services offerings and continued small tuck-in acquisitions.
We expect financial services revenue to increase 6% to 8% driven by continued growth from marketing solutions and other services revenue including Datamyx WAUSAU FISC and Deluxe Rewards partially offset by recurring check order declines of 6% to 7% and some pricing pressure.
Our Direct Checks revenue decline of approximately 7% to 8% driven by lower check order volume semi from secular declines in check usage.
A continued sluggish economy full year cost and expense reductions of approximately $50 million net of investments increases in medical expenses material cost and delivery rates.
Continued investments in revenue growth opportunities including brand awareness marketing solutions and other services offers and enhanced internet capabilities.
And an effective tax rate of approximately 33.8% representing approximately $0.03 dilution per share compared to 2015’s tax rate.
We expect to continue generating strong operating cash flows ranging between $315 million and $330 million in 2016 reflecting stronger earnings and lower interest payments partially offset by higher tax and employee medical payments.
We expect to contract acquisition payments to be approximately $50 million.
2016 capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $43 million or the same of 2015 as we continue to grow Deluxe.
We planned to continue to invest in key revenue growth initiatives and make other investments in order fulfillment and IT infrastructure.
Depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be $87 million including approximately $41 million of acquisition related amortization.
For the first quarter of 2016 we expect revenue to range from $448 million to $456 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $1.12 to $1.17.
This EPS range would drive a very strong 8% to 13% growth in the first quarter year-on-year.
Lower interest expense from extinguishing the 2019 notes in the first quarter of 2015 partially offset by higher interest expense driven by the Federal Reserve’s recent rate increase action is expected to be above $0.02 favorable year-on-year.
WAUSAU was a little over $0.02 dilutive in the first quarter of 2015 and brand spend is expected to be flat with the first quarter of 2015.
Also as a reminder historically Direct Checks has their strongest revenue quarter of the year in the first quarter.
Adjusting for these items in both years first quarter’s adjusted diluted EPS growth rate would still be a strong 4% to 8%.
Shifting to our capital structure.
We expect to maintain our balanced approach of investing organic and through small to medium sized acquisitions in order to drive our growth transformation.
Additionally we expect to continue paying a quarterly dividend and periodically repurchase common stock.
To the extent we generate excess cash we plan to reduce the amount outstanding against our credit facility and we may from time-to-time consider retiring additional outstanding debt through open market purchases privately negotiated transactions or other means.
We believe our increasing cash flow strong balance sheet and flexible capital structure position us well to continue advancing our transformation.
I will conclude my comments with an update on our cost and expense reduction initiatives.
Overall we had another solid year and we delivered on our commitment to reduce our cost and expenses in 2015 by approximately $50 million.
Bringing our total reductions since mid-2006 to approximately $600 million.
Looking ahead to 2016 we will continue our focus on the revenue growth phase of our transformation but will not lessen our focus on cost and expense reductions.
We expect to drive an incremental $50 million of cost reductions net of investments in 2016.
Approximately 50% of the $50 million in expected reductions will come from sales and marketing.
Another 35% from fulfillment and the remaining 15% coming from our shared services organizations.
Our focus in sales and marketing for 2016 continues to be on sales channel optimization platform and tool consolidation leveraging sales and marketing efficiencies including integration from recent acquisitions.
In fulfillments we expect to continue to our lean direct and indirect spend reductions further consolidate our manufacturing technology platforms drive delivery technology and process efficiencies reduce spoilage further enhance our strategic supplier sourcing arrangements and continue with other supply chain improvements and efficiencies.
Finally for shared services infrastructure we expect to continue to reduce expenses primarily in IT but we are also working opportunities in finance and real estate.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Lee.
Thank you Tarry.
I will continue my comments with the perspective on what we accomplished overall in 2015 look ahead to 2016 including framing our eight strategic focus areas for the year and review our key revenue growth area marketing solutions and other services.
I will then highlight progress in each of our three segments including a perspective and what we plan to accomplish in 2016.
Deluxe grew revenue in 2015 for the sixth consecutive time for the first time since 1996.
We saw a continued stability in our core check and business products and product businesses and improved our mix of faster growing marketing solutions and other services revenues to 30% of total annual revenue.
We acquired VerifyValid Jumpline Datamyx and FISC to expand opportunities in higher growth marketing solutions and other services.
We also accelerated our brand transformation and celebrated our 100 year company anniversary.
In addition to our strong print leadership we continue to invest in our employment brand in digital technology and extending our sales channel reach and in our communities.
We ended 2015 with 4.5 million small business customers of which approximately 27% of them are marketing solutions and other services customer.
And we served approximately 5 100 financial institutions.
In shared services infrastructure we’ve reduced cost and improved the effectiveness of information technology finance human resources real estate and legal functions.
Our intense focus on cost reductions has now delivered enterprise wide savings of $600 million since mid-2006.
We exited the year with more robust and innovative product and services solidified processes a better infrastructure and improved financial results.
Our operating cash flow grew for the 7th straight year allowing us to pay our dividend repurchase shares and invest in acquisitions.
We recognize that there is still a tremendous amount of work to do but we made great strides in 2015.
As we enter 2016 our primary focus continues to be profitable revenue growth and increasing the mix of marketing solutions and other services revenues.
We are poised for continued growth as we aim for profitable revenue growth in 2016 for a 7th consecutive year.
As we briefly introduced on our Q3 earnings calls we have eight strategic focus areas for 2016 including three for financial services and five for small business services that we will provide regular updates on throughout the balance of 2016.
I will review each of the eight focus areas in a few minutes during the segment updates.
From an overall macroeconomic perspective clearly there are global pressures with challenges in China with energy oil and gas and a strengthening dollar.
And not to say we are completely immune from these.
But we believe the direct impact on these for us is insignificant.
We have developed an incredible execution oriented culture that has operated through various market environments and has delivered strong top and bottom-line growth for the past six years.
We had built our business on large size markets and relationships in the small business and financial institutions spaces with broad robust and growing product offers that we believe sets us up extremely well for 2016 and beyond.
As we have continued to grow marketing solutions and other services revenue both organically and through tuck-in strategic acquisitions our revenue mix is significantly diversified now.
This has also positioned us to be a solution base provider to our customers.
Our solutions allow us to address a broad range of customers’ needs and pinpoints.
Further enhances to us as a trusted partner and deeply embeds us in their workflows and ultimately leads to sticky relationships.
We expect to increase a broadening and more highly diversified marketing solutions and other services revenue stream to 34% of total revenue mix in 2016 towards our goal of MOS representing 40% of revenue by 2018.
Within MOS we also expect over 10% of total company revenue mix to be in the even higher growth multiple FinTech spaces.
In summary given this perspective we believe that the market is not fully understanding or valuing the exceptional strength and positioning of Deluxe right now.
Here’s an update on our four sub-categories framework for marketing solutions and other services.
We ended 2015 at over $532 million in revenue or right about on our expectation with mix in the four sub-categories also right in line with our expectation.
First small business marketing finished 2015 at 39% of total MOS revenue and is expected to represent approximately 40% in 2016 with expected growth of approximately 16% to 20%.
Key 2016 growth initiatives include profitably scaling integrated marketing on demand solution offers with the largest opportunity in major account verticals including automotive financial services healthcare hospitality real estate service franchises and telcos.
We also see strong growth opportunities in retail packaging promotional products and specifically in distributor dealer and major accounts channel.
The second category web services which includes logo and web design web hosting SEM SEO email marketing and social and payroll services finished 2015 at 21% of total MOS revenue and is expected to represent approximately 18% in 2016 with expected organic growth rates in the low single-digits.
Key 2016 growth initiative include scaling web services offers through our just released integrated Deluxe marketing suite across all customers and channels delivering partnerships and acquisitive opportunities that pull double down on existing capabilities and address gaps within our portfolio.
We closed 2015 with approximately 950 000 web hosting customers which is a 14% increase from 2014.
We expect to close 2016 with nearly 1.05 million web hosting customers an increase of 11% from 2015.
The third category fraud security risk management and operational services finished 2015 at 16% of MOS revenue and are expected to represent approximately 14% in 2016 with expected growth in the low single-digits.
Key focused growth areas in this category in addition to our standard fraud and security offerings include performance management by adding Banker’s Dashboard customers including tablet and new credit union offers as well as strategic sourcing new financial institution wins.
In addition we continue to see growth from scaling eChecks with opportunities both within our traditional direct channels as well as from adding eChecks to our distributor dealer and major account channels to also scaling in many areas where we do not sell paper checks today.
Q4 was our best revenue quarter ever for eChecks and for the full year the eChecks platform process more than $1 billion of payment value to more than 400 000 payees.
We continue to progress opportunities with financial institutions medical and insurance payment processors accounting services and software providers and other document management and payment solution companies.
We are excited to announce that we just closed two new deals.
One with an integrated healthcare payment solutions provider and another one with an accounting and financial services outsourcing provider.
20% of all eCheck customers are new customers who have not purchased a paper check from Deluxe in the last six years.
Finally other financial institution services finished 2015 at 24% of MOS revenue and are expected to represent approximately 28% in 2016 with expected double-digit growth rates.
Key growth initiatives here include scaling WAUSAU FISC Deluxe Rewards and Datamyx.
We expect marketing solutions and other services revenues to be approximately $615 million to $630 million in 2016 up from $532 million in 2015 with organic growth in the low double-digits.
If achieved this performance would translate to a total revenue mix of around 34% of revenue and up from almost 30% in 2015 and 26% and 22% the previous two years.
We continue to target increasing marketing solutions and other services as a percent of total company revenue to approximately 40% by 2018 with checks expected to represent approximately 40% of revenue and forms and accessories expected to represent approximately 20% of revenue.
Now shifting to our segments in small business services in the quarter as expected we did not see any notable improvements as the economic climate for small businesses remains sluggish and foreign exchange rates continue to deteriorate.
Revenue grew over 3% and was negatively impacted by foreign exchange headwinds which impacted growth by 1% checks and forms were slightly below the high end of our expectations and seasonal holiday offers performed about in line with our expectations.
Results from targeted customer segmentation in the call center improved and visitors average order value and conversion rates increased.
Our online Safeguard distributor dealer and major accounts channels grew revenue over the prior year.
We also saw growth in small business marketing solutions web and payroll services while SEM/SEO services declined in line with our earlier decision to exit some unprofitable channels.
Again we ended the quarter with approximately 950 000 web hosting customers.
We continue to closely monitor the small business market.
Optimism indices were flat in October and then declined in November and closed slightly higher in December but ended the fourth quarter down.
The index is stuck in a below average ride and signals that the economy is basically just the lumping along.
The index ended the year below the highest levels reached in this recovery in late 2014.
Although the labor market and capital spending continue to reflect some encouraging signs.
In summary current optimism indices indicate a continued sluggish economy.
Other than taxes and regulation the good news is that increasing sales continues to be a small business owners’ number one pinpoint and our portfolio is significantly more robust now with many offers to help them here.
As the economy recovers with the transformative changes we are making to deliver more services offerings that help small businesses get and keep customers.
Deluxe is better positioned as an indispensable partner for growth.
For 2016 we have created a four quadrant metrics to frame four of the five strategic focus areas for SBS.
First for market your business products which include small business marketing solutions our focus areas are profitably scaling integrated marketing on demand solution offers with the largest opportunity in major account verticals including automotive financial services healthcare hospitality real estate service franchises and telcos.
Second market your business services which includes web services offers our focus areas are improving operating income by optimizing product portfolio channels and operations delivering partnerships and acquisitive opportunities that both double down on existing capabilities and address gaps within our portfolio and providing our integrated Deluxe marketing suite across all customers and channels.
Third for operate your business products which includes checks warrants and accessories our primary focus is on driving customer acquisition and retention and improving Safeguard distributor processes and profitability.
Fourth for operate your business services which includes primarily fraud and security eChecks and payroll services and where our focus is on scaling eChecks assessing adjacent offer extensions like checks and eChecks for e-deposits variable check printing and remotely created checks and payroll time tracking and billing as well as continuing to evaluate potential partnership and acquisition operating services opportunities.
The fifth SBS opportunity is continuing to improve brand awareness.
In 2016 we’ll be telling more stories and packaging great advice for other small business owners from the 100 businesses we featured in 2015.
We also will be producing a web series with Robert Herjavec that showcases small businesses while incorporating marketing lessons from Deluxe.
Another exciting partnership with Robert is that he has enlisted Deluxe to provide marketing support to the businesses he invest in on Shark Tank.
We are also in the midst of the small business revolution main street contest.
For this contest we are soliciting nominations from towns that can benefit from an investment in their main street and we have received nearly 6 700 nominations from more than 1 300 small towns so far.
In the second quarter we will announce three small town finalists during National Small Business Week when the public will vote for their favorite.
The winning town will receive $500 000 providing a jolt of revitalization to their main street business community and upgrades to their public spaces.
We see these efforts as a great platform to continue to increase our brand awareness within the small business community.
In financial services in the fourth quarter we saw the rate of decline of checks perform a little lower than 6% which translate to the year being a little higher than 6% with rates across our six tier banking categories.
We had strong overall new acquisition rate and our retention rates remained strong and deals pending in the current quarter.
We simplified our processes and took complexity out of the business while reducing our cost and expense structure.
We made progress again in the quarter in advancing marketing solutions and other services revenue opportunity.
WAUSAU revenue was approximately $19 million which met our expectations and we had strong bookings in the quarter helping us build backlog which finish the year about 6% higher than backlog last year.
So we are encouraged about growing WAUSAU revenue in 2016.
WAUSAU ended the fourth quarter and the year about $0.02 accretive per share.
As mentioned earlier we also completed the FISC small tuck-in acquisition which has been integrated in the WAUSAU.
Deluxe Rewards continue to perform very well in the fourth quarter including closing of new financial institution pilot that may lead to a larger contract as well as we expect to close another financial institution deal as part of a check renewal.
So a nice cross sell opportunity.
Datamyx is off to a very strong start as revenue came in closer to $8 million or better than expected and about $0.02 dilutive per share.
For 2016 we have three strategic focus areas for FS.
First retail banking which includes checks marketing services and rewards on loyalty.
For checks our focus is on improving retention rates and gaining share.
We expect check units to be in a decline range of 6% to 7% or in line with 2014 and 2015 declining rates.
Please note that we understand that it is important for us to maintain low decline rates.
But given the size of the FS checks business now and the growth in MOS every 1% decline in FS checks now only has about a $2.5 million annualized impact on revenue.
We have now extended all our large contracts through at least the end of 2016 and we have about 20% fewer community bank contracts up for renewal in 2016 compared to 2015.
And we have more competitive opportunities coming up.
We also implemented a very small price increase at the start of this year.
For marketing services our focus is on leveraging Datamyx data and analytics together with marketing services campaign execution to acceleration outsource campaign targeting and multi-channel execution.
For rewards and loyalty our focus is on profitably growing Deluxe rewards revenue.
The second FS strategic focus area is commercial banking and includes treasury management and profitably growing WAUSAU and FISC revenue and assessing and executing tuck-in acquisitions along with assessing other adjacent opportunities in commercial banking.
The third FS strategic focus area is performance management.
And includes scaling Banker’s Dashboard and strategic sourcing.
For 2016 we expect marketing solutions and other services revenue to be approximately 45% of total financial services revenue with the following at the midpoint of the FS revenue range.
Marketing services including Datamyx be $54 million.
Rewards and loyalty $33 million fraud and security $24 million treasury management including WAUSAU and FISC $89 million and performance management including Banker’s Dashboard and strategic sourcing $19 million.
We still expect Datamyx revenue to be approximately $42 million in 2016 with strong double-digit EBITDA margins and we expect data mix to be about flat per share from an EPS perspective and to be dilutive in total less than six months from the acquisition date.
In Direct Checks revenue finished right in line with our expectations.
We continue to look for opportunity to provide accessories and another check related products and services to our consumers as well as work on a number of initiatives to create an integrated best in class direct to consumer check experience.
We continue to see a ramp in revenue enhancement synergies through call center scripting and up sell capabilities as well as synergistic cost and expense reductions.
For 2016 we expect Direct Checks revenue to decline in the 7% to 8% range driven by continued declines in consumer usage and a sluggish economy.
We anticipate that marketing solutions and other services revenue which is primarily fraud and security offers for this segment to be about 10% of Direct Checks revenues.
We expect to reduce our manufacturing cost and SG&amp;A in the segment and continue to deliver operating margins in the low to mid 30% range while generating strong operating cash flow.
As we exit 2015 on the heels of a strong quarterly performance in a continued sluggish economy.
We have made tremendous progress in transforming Deluxe but we still have many opportunities ahead of us in 2016.
We believe we are well positioned entering 2016 for our seventh consecutive year of revenue growth.
Despite the sluggish economy our financial discipline has enabled us to invest in people technology products services and our brand in order to position ourselves for sustainable revenue growth while continuing to improve profitability and operating cash flow.
Our technologies and sales channels are stronger our digital technology services offer is more mature our infrastructure better and our management talent is deeper and aligned to grow revenue.
We know it is critical for us to be able to grow revenue again in 2016 and improve the mix of our marketing solutions and other services revenue.
And we are well positioned to make this happen.
We have developed a strong platform for long-term growth with the objective of transforming Deluxe to more of a growth services provider from primarily a check printer thereby changing our product mix and resulting stock price multiple.
Before I open the call up for questions I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the Deluxe employees for their hard work dedication and simply outstanding performance in 2015.
Thank you Deluxers.
Let’s get off to a great start in 2016 as we aim for seventh consecutive year of profitable revenue growth.
And now Shannon we’ll open up the line for questions for Terry Ed and I.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jamie Clement with Macquarie.
You may begin.
Hi Lee Terry Ed good morning and thanks in advance for taking my questions.
Hi Jamie.
Hi Jamie.
Lee perhaps I should have asked question three months ago given the stock action after last quarter and the Datamyx acquisition.
It seems to me that some people took that deal announcement as a sign of change in strategy by the company.
Yet if you look at what you’ve invested in in SBS in 2015 again maybe the deals weren’t that big but I agree you still spent a lot of money.
So if it’s possible if you could like just indulge this a little bit and if you could treat kind of all of the spending in SBS in 2015 as if it was kind of one acquisition can you share with us what you think you kind of what you accomplished what you added to the business and what the opportunities are going forward? So specific to SBS what we’re trying to do is again as I said in my comments get more of a solution focus so when you think about those four quadrants Jamie what we’re trying to do now is obviously historically it’s been more of the operate your business products category the checks in front.
But we are trying not only to get stronger in the web services space but there is a huge opportunity for us in the small business marketing solutions space as well.
And we are not sure we like eChecks we clearly from my comments we made some progress here including some a couple of just brand new wins that we have.
So we see that as helping as in the operate your business services space as well.
So we are trying for more balance and we filled in gaps that we had and we mentioned the seek panel Jumpline deal that we did we are looking to still fill in gaps where we see them see fit to fill in gaps.
But the thing that we are trying to do with the company we said this on the third quarter call and you can feel it more today is get FS growing as well and if we can do that Jamie the view we have is that we got 90% plus now the company been able to say we can organically get grow.
We just see opportunities over there balance with the great opportunities that we have in the small business space and bringing these all together cross-selling more and just having more richness and robustness in the collective MOS portfolio and I think that balances what we are trying to do.
Stay smart in the SB but add capability in FS.
And if I may follow up on that I know you gave us some numbers in terms of some of the MOS components of FI.
I just couldn’t quite frankly write them down fast enough.
But what is the -- I don’t know if you want to give a fourth quarter number or full year 2015 what percentage of FI was Jackson I don’t know if you can pro forma that for Datamyx and for FISC and all that.
But just so that we can attempt to maybe model on organic growth rate of FI going forward.
Yeah here is the way to think about it and if you think where we close the year 2015 about 37% of FS was MOS.
So about 63% would be checks or checks and accessories mostly be.
This year Jamie we expect the MOS to move to 45%.
So when I rattle off all those parts of the portfolio and we do that because you and investors are interested in those areas of the portfolio.
That’s the 45% and therefore the checks component we expect to be about 55% this year.
Okay.
Alright thank you very much.
I’ll hub back in the queue.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Good morning.
A couple of questions and just kind of maybe follow-up with Jamie’s question regarding organic growth how we see it going forward for financial services? Obviously your comments very positive there and FinTech is about what 10% revenue of marketing solutions right now and yet we saw like -- I thought that I heard that organic growth for FS is down this particular quarter.
But how should we view it over the long-term especially in 2016? Here is the way Joan to think about it and of course you’ve got -- we try to be as straightforward as you know and given you fair comps here.
But the way to think about it is if we execute to the $42 million that we’ve laid out for Datamyx and all the other numbers that I gave you for those MOS components for FS and then we carry forward into what we believe are the opportunities from the business cases that we develop when we did the various acquisitions looking into 2017 we believe given the rate of decline of check at that 6% to 7% in FS that the collective segment should be able to grow in the low single-digits and that then becomes organic.
So we have to flush this year at 6% to 8% which doesn’t now organic inorganic obviously right? Because of Datamyx acquired and FISC acquired in the fourth quarter of 2015.
But when you look out and you reach out and you get through the year and we believe we’ll execute to what we laid out and you look into 2017 that’s the energy and excitement that we’ve got.
We now have SP growing and now we have what we believe Joan is that FS will be able to get some organic growth as well and therefore again the 90% plus the company organically growing.
Okay that’s great.
So we are definitely looking out there in 2017 which is not too far away.
And I’m not sure if I actually got it right it seems like in terms of your different channels obviously Deluxe is known for that very good expensive channel coverage.
And for me it seems like your major accounts like clients list is like growing and growing and you just name like another vertical market for example on the automobile side.
And can you just give us an update on that? Yeah we continue -- you see the extensive growth rate that we predicted for the small business marketing solutions that first component of the four components within MOS and we said 16% to 20% growth.
What’s happening right now Joan is we continue to see in the fourth quarter what we’ve seen in the previous several quarters as well that we’re starting to be able to go out to -- we call major accounts which in effect act like small business customers.
So we’ll go out to a financial advisor network.
And we like Sutera as an example they’re a nice customer.
And they have somewhere between maybe 8 000 to 15 000 in effect financial advisors.
And those advisors all need everything from marketing materials and business cards and what and they’re now buying those from us kind of from what we call a central store front.
So let’s say Terry and Ed are advisors that work for Sutera and they don’t want to go in and figure out how to go find their own cards and marketing material.
So they go through a central storefront we’ve created for them.
And then they know they can access that and get whatever they need and personalize to their what they want to target as an advisor for their clients.
So it’s an example where is this is happening in all of those other verticals that I mentioned.
And we see this getting bigger and we see the potential to put other services cross-sell things into there as well.
So for example in my example of Terry and Ed may want to start using email marketing to talk to their clients as well.
And so right now this is a hugely interesting opportunity for us.
Right that’s great.
And Lee if I have to quantify sort of like that SMB like opportunity like should I say let’s say you have $4.6 million small customers right now small medium business customers right now.
How many of those are actually using two or three different services of products versus just checks? And can I just extrapolate like the cross-sell like upsell opportunity through that numbers that you can potentially give me? Joan the way to think about it is what we said publicly the $4.5 million small business customers and we ended the year with 27% of them considered MOS customers.
So we believe the opportunity is to continue to fill out those four quadrant offers between products and services that we have both to help them in their marketing as well as to help them in how they operate.
So that’s the best way to look at it.
We're very leery on giving specific products and here is why when we see competitors of ours who say well seven products and what we see is sometimes it ends up being four different domains.
We don’t -- we look at it as a product to us is a pure product that we’re selling into there.
We don’t look at it is four domains of suddenly four products or something like that.
So the opportunity that we see is that just been able to build out that 27% mix and getting that mix to be higher overall.
I just would remind you and the other investors Joan to that we don’t get all of our customers anymore coming to us through checks.
Some of them don’t even know we’re a check company anymore.
They come through logos they come through email marketing they come through web hosting in that small business place.
And then they might or checks is an extension or a cross-sell.
It doesn’t start anymore this is the incredible breadth and diversity of the portfolio that we’re starting to get as well.
Very good.
And then finally Terry can you I think last year when you talk about brand awareness especially on the spending like maybe some heightened spending in marketing and all of that and you gave us some sort of trajectory how we should think about each quarter.
Can you just kind of provide the information for 2016? Yeah as we indicated at the first quarter in particular that is a lower quarter for us but it is pretty comfortable spend level in relation to what we had for the 2015 time period.
And then as you look at the distribution out for the balance of the quarters it’s really staged pretty comparably to last year as we enter into small business week in the second quarter that tends to draw more of our spend as we try to leverage what’s kind of happening at a national level there.
And third quarter is also another higher quarter and then starts to taper off again towards the end of the year.
So first and fourth quarters are lighter and the heavier spend will again be in that second and third quarters.
Yeah Joan to add on Terry to add on that if you go back my comments in the prepared comments so we’re going to bringing out some of the energy and excitement around the continuation of the small business revolution on main street stuff.
And then you’ll see in the third quarter us announcing the winner and then really ramping this web series marketing web series you’re going to see us doing in fact web television so to speak where we are on with Robert and we’re working with our clients we’ve already started this in fact we’ve seen several Robert’s businesses we invested in have now using our suggestions on SEM or SEO or email marketing and there we’re seeing they’re lift almost immediate in terms of their revenue lift coming in.
So and I know Robert is really enthused with what we’re doing and obviously those customers are enthused.
So you’re going to see that to come in the second and third quarter be a little bit stronger in terms of where we will spend money but that does match pretty much what we did last year as well.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Tim Klasell with Northland Securities.
You may begin.
Yeah I just sort of want to circle back and hi guys.
Want to circle back to that 4.5 million customers that you have in the 27% number that you threw out.
How that was for let’s say 2014 and 2013 how was that trended overtime? It was 25% in 2014 I think it was 20% in 2013 Tim.
So it’s growing nicely for us.
Okay great.
And maybe you could sort of talk to us on what specific products that seem to be driving that? I know there’s probably more than one but if we keep it down to maybe a shorter list so we can know what products to sort of focus in on? It’s really -- the real significant reach right now is in that small business solutions where we’re bringing together a package of marketing materials and we call that small business solutions Tim is the way to think about it but we’re also bringing think about we just increased the hosting customers from 850 000 in 2014 to 950 000 in 2015 so we boost that up by 14% and we expect this year to add roughly another 100 000.
So it’s coming in a lot of different areas is the way to think about it but you can just see where we have the largest growth rate right now within SP and the mix of MOS Tim it’s going to be more in that small business solutions bucket.
Okay great.
And then jumping over to web services I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned that there were some gaps or some areas where you wanted to sort of more round that solution out can you give us any indication of where that might be not obviously specific product sets but sort of in general area where you want to focus some of your efforts this year? Yeah here’s a way to think about it when we did this Jumpline deal we’ve been looking for sea panel capability for quite some time and I don’t know how many different companies we looked at and we latched on to Jumpline they’re out of St.
Petersburg Florida Andy and his team have just done a super job so far.
And so what we’re looking is how do we -- is there a way that we can bring that capability on more and more and bring more -- migrate more customers in because we think they’ve done a great job up till now and we think we can give a more muscle so to speak to do this even in a bigger way.
So we see it as partnerships latching on many other tuck-ins that we can do that we think will give us more scale and the way to think about it we don’t want all the baggage so to speak that comes with that.
We just want to get those customers put them on our system and we think we can profitably scale that in a lot better way.
So that’s an example where what I mean in that web services space.
Okay great.
And then Terry a quick question for you tax rates obviously gone up a bit here.
Is that -- 33.8% is that still a good number to go into 2017 or will there will be some maybe a greater impact to 2017 with when you annualized all the acquisitions? Yeah we’ve seen kind of market consistency in that tax rate in recent years kind of the in the 33% it is up a little bit for 2016.
So will cost about $0.03 per share but in that range kind of with the product mix and kind of where we operate today that’s probably the best you can do is just kind of extrapolate from where we are.
Okay very good appreciate.
Have a good day guys.
Thanks Tim.
Hi good morning.
Hey Josh.
Hey congratulations on your continued execution of the transformation.
Thank you.
I guess I had one quick question and you’ve already kind of touched a little bit on organic growth.
And I just want to see if I could summarize it maybe from a consolidated basis.
If I look at the kind a midpoint of the revenue guidance for 2016 it’s about 4.5% of revenue growth.
Is there any currency impact considered in 2016? Yeah we have assumed that there will be a negative currency impact going into next year.
And so if I assume go ahead.
I just want to say I mean essentially what we do I mean we don’t pretend like we can forecast or predict big decreases in the exchange rate and we typically just kind of level it out from where we are at time we’re really going out with our outlook and forecast and really assume that’s steady throughout the year.
But given where it is where it’s been on average versus each of the quarters last year.
It is down a little bit.
And so if I just assume call it $80 million plus of revenue growth at the midpoint back outs maybe $40 million for Datamyx and some of the other small tuck-in acquisitions.
I get to couple of percent organic growth plus whatever you’ve kind of backed out or I assume for currency getting me comfortably into the kind of low single-digit organic revenue growth.
Is that the right way to think about from a top-line perspective? I think that’s fair yeah.
I think the thing you got to think about those the growth coming in MOS the huge levels to offset the rate of decline in the check part of the business so right.
So that’s the thing that you got to balance out.
Absolutely.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome Josh.
Hi good day.
Just a couple of quick questions if we could talk a little bit more as historically about some of the recent larger acquisitions like WAUSAU and just and Datamyx and just when you look at the growth rates you’re expecting for 2016 from 2015.
Where are they kind of in your expectation bandwidth in terms of when you first bought them to kind of where they are trending now and what’s kind of the go-to-market strategy and has that changed at all? Yeah let start with Wausau we as I said in my prepared comments Charles we finished the year really strong we had great bookings in the fourth quarter I just was over this earlier this week we have a -- all our sales feet on the street sales people in town for training and that’s now the Datamyx people the WAUSAU people and then the core people.
And I thank them because they finished the year really strong and again as I said the backlog ending 6% higher do we expect to get growth in this.
Yeah we expect it if you go back when we did this October a year ago we expected to get some growth and I would tell you right now we’re doing really well and I think it’s going to perform really well.
Can we grow that up a little bit more this year above the six as we get more bookings coming in? I hope that’s the case Datamyx is brand speaking you I mean we’ve only been with these folks short period of time that they were at the meeting.
I was extremely enthusiast about their progress where they’re at I’m expecting that to grow clearly double-digits.
If you look at full year 2015 to full year 2016.
So I feel very good about what we are doing and I really like the camaraderie and adding these things and how do we work with our sales force getting them into accounts and vice versa and I’m just really enthusiast Charley about what we are doing right now.
That's great.
Thanks and then if you look at MSO revenue was a whole lot you seems to grow very nicely each year as a percent of revenue.
Are you at a point where you can kind of give us a little bit better sense of the overall margin texture like EBITDA margin or EBIT margin for that bucket? We are solidly now solidly in the double-digit EBITDA space at this point and we expect it -- if you think of that curve that we put in our investor deck the line we are getting more and more to the point this year if we can execute where we think we can moving that up yet another notch in 2016.
So very much on that trail and you can see it in some of the prepared comments where we are focused on the certain areas and getting more profitability out but right now Charley I’m very encouraged and we’re button down to put a $50 million number out for cost reductions again.
We are getting -- a lot of people think it’s all in the check and the form side it didn’t it’s getting in these deals and getting them integrated and getting them scaling and then getting the cost structure and those aligned better and that’s going to give us more of a lift this year in that sales bucket if you think about how Terry described the split of the $50 million.
So I’m very encouraged obviously we got to execute.
But that’s something we do well.
So I’m hopeful that as we do this year we’ll be able to move those up even more.
Thank you.
That's very helpful and thanks for the extra transparency this time.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Shannon let me just close with thanking everybody for the participation today and I want to leave you with three thoughts.
First of all we feel we delivered four strong quarters in 2015 we also delivered our six consecutive year of revenue growth.
We also feel that we’ve established the strong foundation for growth again this year and our goal again as I said is to grow revenue for seven consecutive years.
We are going to get back to work roll up our sleeves we’ll come back and hopefully provide a positive progress report on our next call and I’m going to turn the call over to Ed for some final housekeeping.
Thanks Lee.
Before we conclude today’s call just wanted to mention that Deluxe management will be participating in a few upcoming events in the first quarter where you can hear more about our transformation.
On February 29th and March 1st we’ll be at the JP Morgan Global High Yield Leverage Financial Conference in Miami.
On March 9th we’ll be in New York at the Northland Capital’s Growth Conference and on March 23rd we’ll be attending the Telsey Advisory Group’s Spring Conference in New York.
Thank you for joining us and that concludes the Deluxe fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!