Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Aly Noormohamed Senior Vice President Finance.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Art and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with the cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance can differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the line for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Aly and good morning everyone.
As I hope you saw in this morning's earnings press release we're off to a fast start in 2011.
The investments we have made in our supply chain our organization technology and most recently Rapid Continuous Improvement are providing a solid foundation allowing us to capture the latent potential of our brands in this business.
For the quarter bottler case sales increased 1% lapping double-digit growth in Crush Snapple and Mott's.
Dr Pepper was up 1% on strong Fountain gains.
Sun Drop achieved 89% ACV distribution in grocery for the 4 weeks ended March 26 adding $3 million incremental cases in the quarter.
Given a still value-conscious consumer we continue to see strong growth in Hawaiian Punch.
Snapple was up 10% as we rolled out the 64-ounce package nationally and the leverage the tie in with The Amazing Race.
Mott's declined 8% as we lapped 14% growth in the prior year and double-digit price increases took effect at the beginning of March.
For the quarter currency neutral net sales grew 6% reflecting solid volume growth 3 points of growth related to the Pepsi Coke licensing fees and repatriate cases and 2 points of growth from pricing.
Segment operating profit on a currency-neutral basis was flat as we absorbed almost $50 million of input and transportation cost inflation in the quarter.
Additionally margin investments increased $14 million to support a front-half loaded innovation calendar as well as Diet Dr Pepper's integration into Cougar town and national advertising for Canada Dry.
With strong performance below the segment operating profit line specifically corporate interest expenses and taxes and with an 11% reduction in share count diluted earnings per share grew 25% to $0.50 per share.
As we shared on our February earnings call we kind of kicked off 2011 with a very strong pipeline of new products including the national launch of Sun Drop.
I'm thrilled with our progress on Sun Drop.
It's not only gaining share and driving growth in the Citrus segment it's also quickly becoming a fan favorite with over $4 million views of its TV spot on YouTube during its first 4 weeks on the air.
Consumers also love its thirst-quenching citrus flavor with repeat purchases outpacing the launch of Dr Pepper Cherry.
And Snapple our 64-ounce multiple-serve packages is a home run driving almost half of Snapple's volume growth in the quarter.
ACV in grocery reached 34% in March leaving us plenty of room for more growth.
With its bold taste and unique innovative blend of sweeteners Dr Pepper 10 is having a positive impact in its 6 test markets.
The mail-oriented advertising campaign and our very own mobile "man cave" are driving trial and awareness.
Consumer feedback and repeat rates are strong so we may look to launch the product nationally in Q4.
Hawaiian Punch's new 10-ounce 6-pack offering is bringing new users into the franchise and is allowing families to enjoy the great taste and value of Hawaiian Punch on the go.
Now let me highlight some of our current and upcoming activation plans which will keep the strong momentum going through the summer.
To further engage the Hispanic consumer Dr Pepper recently named platinum recording artist Pittbull as the brand's spokesperson for the 2011 VITA 23 marketing campaign.
We also unveiled our newly designed Dr Pepper Club23 a fully customized traveling club where fans can sample the 23 flavors of Dr Pepper while dancing to the sounds of DJ Nino and enjoying the latest gaming technology.
As part of its summer tour Dr Pepper Club23 will make stops in Miami New York Chicago Los Angeles and Houston.
Snapple's season-long partnership with CBS's The Amazing Race culminated with the unveiling of 2 limited time offers regular and diet Papaya Mango Tea.
Snapple was fully integrated into the show's March 27 episode as the teams travel to India to collect ingredients to create the perfect tea.
This product is already a huge hit with consumers and is driving incremental growth for the trademark.
We will continue to support the brand with TV advertising throughout The Amazing Race season and with national sampling activities.
Snapple is also sponsoring The Amazing Race 10-year anniversary celebration in Miami on May 7.
7UP is partnering with The Celebrity Apprentice to get fired up.
This promotion will give consumers the chance to win a VIP trip for 2 to attend The Celebrity Apprentice live boardroom finale and after show party.
And finally we're partnering with Marvel Studios to bring audiences the two biggest movies of the summer Thor opening nationwide on May 6 and Captain America opening nationwide on July 22.
Dr Pepper's Quest for the Can promotion is already underway and offers 4 fans the opportunity to win superpowered experiences including the opportunity to ride in a fighter jet or a supercar.
Core 4's Captain America promotional offer consumers the opportunity to win 1 of 13 Harley-Davidson motorcycles during the 13 weeks of summer.
Both promotion features limited edition collectible cans and as an added bonus fans will also receive a free 1-month subscription to Marvel Digital Comics when registering for the promotion.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through some of our below-the-line items and 2011 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
I'd like to take you through our full year guidance and give you an update on the great progress we're making in Rapid Continuous Improvement.
Before I do that however let me review below the line P&amp;L and cash flow items impacting the quarter.
Corporate costs were $10 million lower compared to the same period last year.
The absence of PepsiCo transaction-related fees reduced corporate costs by $8 million.
Other favorable comparisons include lower productivity office investments and a $3 million favorable savings in mark-to-market commodity hedges.
Partially offsetting these were higher industry association fees and increased stock compensation costs.
Net interest expense was $7 million lower as we benefited from lower interest rates primarily driven by the tender offer and refinancing transaction we completed in January.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 36%.
This included a $3 million or 170 basis point benefit related to the PepsiCo and Coke transactions.
With respect to our focus on working capital we continue to drive improvements in our cash conversion cycle and we're tracking well ahead of our 3-day improvement goal for the year.
For the quarter capital spending totaled $54 million and we returned $156 million to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
As you saw in today's press release we continue to believe that we can achieve 3% to 5% net sales growth in 2011 and full year diluted earnings per share in the range of $2.70 to $2.78.
Despite rising commodity costs higher gas prices and continued other macroeconomic pressures we see reasonably steady consumer purchasing patterns notwithstanding the price increases taken by us and our retail partners.
Given our encouraging first quarter performance our strong innovation pipeline Sun Drop's national expansion our other targeted brand initiatives and our opportunity to further improve distribution and availability we believe we can achieve 1% to 2% volume growth this year while also realizing low single-digit price increases.
With oil up more than 25% since our last earnings call we're clearly seeing the impact of higher PET fuel and even corn costs.
At forward prices for our unhedged positions we now expect packaging and ingredients to increase total cost of goods by 7% to 9% on a constant volume mix basis.
Transportation costs included in SG&amp;A are now expected to increase approximately $35 million for the year assuming current prices for fuel.
Partially offsetting this approximately $15 million increase in packaging ingredient and transportation costs since our earlier guidance include the momentum we achieved in the first quarter about 50 basis points of incremental pricing balance of the year.
Incremental productivity in manufacturing and in general and administrative expenses has a favorable impact of foreign currency.
With better-than-expected performance in the first quarter we're also looking at incremental opportunities to invest in our brands and this investment could be $10 million to $20 million.
We continue to expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 35% which includes an $18 million 1-time benefit related to the PepsiCo and Coke transactions.
For modeling purposes let me remind you that Q2 remains our most challenging quarter for the year.
We expect packaging ingredients and transportation costs to be up almost $70 million on a constant volume/mix basis compared to the second quarter last year and marketing costs to be up low double digits to support a front-half loaded innovation calendar.
In terms of cash flow we will continue to drive improvements in our cash conversion cycle targeting at least a 3-day improvement in 2011.
Capital spending is expected to be approximately 4.5% of net sales.
Finally we remain on track to repurchase approximately $400 million to $500 million of our common stock in 2011 subject to market condition.
With respect to Rapid Continuous Improvement we are very encouraged by the changes occurring throughout the organization underpinned by RCI.
We're eliminating waste in all aspects of the business in the selling process in marketing and promotional execution in delivery and manufacturing and in back-office functions.
In the quarter we completed 25 improvement events.
So let me take a moment to just highlight a few.
In one region we reduced non-value selling time by 1 hour per day and improved our backroom footprint for the customer.
This wind can be replicated across the entire DSD business.
We learned how to accelerate the deployment of cold drink equipment and in marketing we completed a project that will allow us to accelerate the implementation of various marketing programs that increases our speed to market.
We've had many supply chain improvements.
Here let me share 1 data point as a measure of improvement.
In our Warehouse Direct business cases in inventory at the end of March were down almost 10% from March of last year while sales volume in cases was up 4% for the quarter.
This will also significantly lower transportation and warehousing costs.
2011 is our initial year.
The organization is learning the tools of RCI and is developing  the right mindset.
The engagement from Larry and the entire senior management team down to our shop floor employees is beginning to create an organization aligned around improving all aspects of value-creating activities.
We are still in the very early days of RCI but we're very pleased with our results.
With that let me turn the call back to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these few thoughts.
We entered 2011 stronger than ever.
We're executing our focused strategy and it's continuing to pay dividends.
We're gaining distribution and availability increasing our share of immediate consumption occasions and taking full advantage of the cases we repatriated from the Pepsi and Coke systems.
It's no secret that higher input and fuel costs post a significant threat to an increasingly healthy but still fragile consumer.
We are balancing volume growth with measured pricing and are continuously looking for ways to drive productivity and invest incrementally in our brands.
Finally our organization is embracing RCI improving safety quality and delivery while eliminating waste.
The breakthroughs we've seen so far are truly inspiring and as we systematically replicate them across the company we will unleash resources to fuel growth in 2011 and beyond.
Operator we're ready for first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Wendy Nicholson of Citi Investment [Citigroup Inc Research Division].
I wanted to follow up with the guidance for the full year on the top line and given how strong the first quarter was [Technical Difficulty] The question is regarding the top line guidance and the maintaining of the range if you will for the full year why you're not either raising that range or leaning towards the higher end given the strength in the first quarter? And I'm wondering if some of the strength in the first quarter was just inventory fill so are inventories currently inflated at retail? Or where do you see that standing? Wendy it's Marty.
No I think there's no inventory build.
There's no excess inventory in the channels that we can identify.
So we don't see that as a factor.
Again our guidance is based on the fact that we see 1% to 2% underlying volume growth.
As I said in my prepared remarks we expect to take a little more pricing balance this year and we'll have a 2 to 2.5 points.
So that will give us 2 to 2.5 points of pricing for the year and more or less that keeps us in the range.
FX so far has been a little favorable.
So if rates stay where they are that should continue.
But it keeps us within the range of the 3% to 5%.
And with respect to costs and while costs are up and we talked about them being up now 7% to 9% of the COGS line and $35 million in transportation again a little pricing against that productivity improvement against that when we put it altogether we still see us coming in within our range.
LLC</strong> And just 2 follow-up questions to that.
I mean first in terms of kind of where we are a third of the way through the year.
The promotional environment and how much it's costing you to compete would you say that it's marginally less favorable or more favorable than you had expected maybe back in January? And then second thing on the incremental investment you talked about maybe having the flex to spend a little more would that be more on the promotional side? So a contra-revenue item or more on the advertising line? Thanks.
No.
On the pricing I mean we're still seeing very disciplined pricing out there very rational.
I would say it's not really changed that much from what we saw in the fourth quarter and what we were looking at.
I think another 1 of the pieces there and you talk about the reinvestment as Marty talked we may look at spending $10 million to $20 million on our brands.
I talked about the success of Dr Pepper 10 I mean that's going to take some money if we pull that forward.
So a lot of it's  still work in progress Wendy but I would say you're going to see most it actually going towards the brand.
Terrific.
Thank you so much.
Your next question comes from Steven Powers of Bernstein.
Outside of Dr Pepper Canada Dry and Sun Drop the strength of which you called out in the release CSD volumes where we are remain kind of notably negative across the rest of the Core 4 and including Crush now.
I guess if you could give us a little bit of sense  for how you expect -- is that in line with your expectations below or not? And then how you expect the growth trajectory of those brands to trend as you look out over the remainder of the year and into '12? As we look at -- I mean they're lapping some very strong numbers in Q1 and Q2.
And so we're not really concerned about it.
We've got great plans in place as I mentioned in my prepared remarks.
You saw where we're going to be doing some things with 7UP.
So were going to be seeing that come in.
We look at our CSDs we really haven't changed that they're going to be flat to up 1%.
And then our non-carb business is going to be up 2% to 3%.
So it pretty well falls right into place where we were looking.
We also want our pricing and what we can get on pricing will do very opportunistically.
And then with brand Dr Pepper I think if you X out of the Fountain foodservice volume growth that brand too experienced a decline.
Do you expect that brand to grow out excluding the Fountain foodservice gains over the course of the year? Yes the Fountain foodservice continues to do real well.
We've got a lot of programs on our Dr Pepper.
Dr Pepper was lapping some strong numbers in the first quarter.
Plus also we had the activity with a lot on the Cherry Dr Pepper.
So we feel very good.
But our partners are all doing a great job.
They have great plans in place.
We've got a lot of good summer promotional activity out there.
And our caps are still looking good and growing.
So we're happy with that.
Great.
And lastly on RCI the incremental kind of opportunity you're identifying this year.
How much of that do you see with just the maturation of that process internally versus kind of a sense of the urgency due to the commodity cost environment? How much of this could you think would have happened regardless versus driven by the environment? Well firstly you say maturation we've only been at it 3 months.
And so I would say we couldn't -- I mean I wish we had started sooner like given the cost environment because cost will clearly benefit cost reductions will occur as a result.
My view and Larry's view the team's view is we have gotten probably -- we are quite further ahead now than at least I would've thought we would've been at this point in terms of engagement.
I shared a few highlights and those highlights talk to the breadth of we can actually grow sales.
We can actually speed time to market which grows sales.
We can actually make things more efficient in the supply chain.
And why I didn't say it in my prepared remarks I'll say it now we clearly stand behind the $150 million of productivity improvement that we have said we will get over 3 years beginning of this year.
And I would say results so far this quarter are very very encouraging towards that goal.
And sure the results to the extent we eliminate waste and reduce costs it does certainly help us offset the headwinds of commodity inflation.
And we've said we do have productivity some level of productivity savings built into our guidance to offset the increase in commodity costs.
One of the factors that allows us to keep our guidance where it is.
Great.
I mean it's too early to say but that $11 million or $15 million number that you've shown out there a couple of times the last couple of quarters it sounds like -- and is it pulling forward that opportunity in 2011? Or is this likely incremental to that over time? I'm not going to change that or try to bucket it for you.
I will remind everybody it is $150 million of productivity not all costs.
So that includes working capital efficiency capital spending efficiency.
Again I called out that in 1 part of the business WD I mean cases on the floor down 10% while sales growing in to  business and of course that goes without saying with even higher service levels to our customers.
I think when you translate that across the business almost every inventory location where we have done projects to in essence improve -- deliveries haven't been a  problem we focus on delivery how to get product to the customer faster eliminate a lot of the waste.
Almost every location from warehouses to distribution centers to even some plants after about 1 week or 2 weeks' time what we're seeing days in inventory drop by 70%.
So that's something that is large right? It's not 10% it's not 20% it's 70%.
Now I'm not saying that we can operate the business on a $100 million of inventory either but if you think about it you might be able to I'm not predicting that but it's compelling.
Great.
Thanks very much.
And your next question comes from Christine Farkas from Bank of America.
Larry I wanted to get back to your comments that consumer patterns appear to be steady despite price hikes taken by manufacturers and I guess higher gas prices as well.
We've seen Snapple growing.
I'm wondering if you can comment a little bit on the dynamics of pack sizes or channel performance.
Has gas prices impacted your C-Store trends or immediate consumption trends at all? No our single-serve is still doing very well Christine.
I think a lot of the -- as we'd look at the consumer we're still seeing traffic in the CNG.
We're seeing the trend to be spending a little bit more a little uptick there in CNG and quick-serve restaurants.
I think a lot of times when we'd look at the gas prices they're not as high as they were.
They vary by geographic territory but I think a lot of it was whenever the prices got high last time I've said before the entire -- the markets have crashed.
Everything the economy was bad.
I think people are feeling better about the economy.
They're feeling that there is some upside.
And when you look at the CNG so much of that lost in '08 was construction.
So I mean as we kind of factor that out and look at it I still have a positive feel out there.
We're cautiously optimistic but we're  seeing the right trends.
The pricing hasn't seemed to really affect it that much.
We track the pricing very close and measure our promotions.
And our business is looking pretty steady right now.
And on the back of that Larry when you talk about pricing not impacting those trends I guess one question is were the elasticity expectations just super low as the manufacturers took pricing? Or are you actually seeing elasticity improve this cycle or just come in better than expected? Because yourself and Coke as well are talking about accelerated pricing in the remainder of 2011.
Right exactly.
And I think the biggest thing here Christine is that it's not just us taking pricing everybody has taken pricing I mean across the board.
And if you look at ours I mean the main  prices are in juice.
We have double-digit pricing there.
But it's across-the-board in all of the channels of the pricing.
It's something we watch constantly.
We do a lot with our packages.
I mean we do package mix changes but our single-serve is one of them that really makes us happy.
The elasticity  is holding I'd say right now kind of in the low single-digit.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just a clarification Marty on the guidance.
I'm just looking at your corporate expense or outlook for 2011 do you expect that number to be higher this year versus a year ago? Let me clarify corporate spending.
We need to go back to the beginning of the year.
At the beginning of the year we said corporate cost would go up $18 million and that hasn't changed.
The increase costs were industry association fees some of our  philanthropic programs as well as higher stock-based compensation.
All that was roughly $21 million.
Against that last year we had net $3 million of higher costs.
The Pepsi and Coke fees on the one hand were $11 million cost and we had in total about $8 million of some one-time pension gains last year.
So we had a net $3 million in cost last year versus the $21 million and net the $18 million.
And that's not changed.
Okay.
So the timing of the first quarter in terms of your year-over-year comparison is really just that it's timing and the corporate expense it should still be up slightly year-over-year? Well yes.
And some of these costs were already in the quarter.
I mean stock-based compensation was in the quarter and is up a couple of million.
So these costs are occurring so to the extent they are in there we have had some other cost reductions.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from Kaumil Gajrawala of UBS.
If we can talk a little bit about Sun Drop it looks like the rollout went well or is going well.
Is it too early or could you use some context on what the repeat rates are looking like? Yes it is still early.
I mean you're correct there but we are just thrilled with the performance we're seeing.
We actually got the execution the distribution out there ahead of plan.
As I mentioned earlier I mean we got 89% grocery ACV or 42% in our convenience channels.
So there's still lots of opportunity in the C-Store.
The Sun Drop is really getting a lot of hits a lot of news.
The social media is really playing well on it.
So we're excited about it.
I mean it's a long-term brand.
It's something that we are just not going out there in and out of boom splat.
We've got the relationship with MTV that's going to be handling the marketing and promotion and that just continues to build.
We're seeing lots of positive momentum there.
And the repeat I mean it's selling better right now the repeat is better than what we had on Dr Pepper Cherry which is just very very encouraging because that was one of the best we've had.
So other than the market last week it went out across some of the Midwest markets it's exciting to see the citrus category really kind of exploding.
Got it.
If I could ask a little bit more on the $10 million to $20 million of incremental spend is that splayed for any particular brand? It's kind of a work in progress right now but as I mentioned a moment ago if we pull Dr Pepper 10 forward that would be some of it there.
And then final question related to C-Stores you mentioned the consumers holding up despite gas prices and price increases but could you be a little bit more specific on C-Stores and what you're seeing there? Yes.
I think the one I'd start with there is we have a lot more opportunity in the C-Stores.
We just talked about Sun Drop.
We're doing a lot of things with different packaging and new packaging.
We've got traffic driving activities for the balance of the year and then we've got a lot of strong movie tie-ins.
So we've got a lot of activity out there to help us to keep closing some of the gaps we have out there.
Our immediate consumption in our company-owned is up around 1%.
So I mean that's encouraging.
As everybody knows that's where we make some good money on those.
There's still availability in distribution voids out there but we're closing and these activities will help us do that.
And from a market perspective do you feel that the consumer still is fine nothing is derailed even the gas prices? It is not derailed.
Like I said it's healthy but still somewhat fragile.
When I'm out with certain customers in some of our chains I think everybody is getting a lot better feeling about it.
We're going to have some more pricing out there that this kind of goes in with the basket of everything that's going on but it has actually benefited CSDs.
If we look at '08 I think when everything the economy kind of crashed and people were so concerned we really watched a lot of people come back into carbonated soft drinks and truly see the value of carbonated soft drinks.
And I think we're starting to see some of that again.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from John Faucher of JPMorgan.
I guess I'm going to ask you a question I asked Coke yesterday as well which is if we look a lot of the scanner data and it maybe doesn't include all the convenience store data the pricing in CSDs generally doesn't look as rational as you're discussing it.
So can you talk a little bit about sort of what we're not seeing in the pricing and why it's better than maybe what it appears from the scanner data? And then can you also -- you talked a little bit about the different pricing levels across the categories can you give us -- sequentially as we look at pricing should we expect more of an improvement on the juice side which tends to be more on material focused or more of sequential improvement on CSDs? Thanks.
You're exactly right John.
The Neilsen's and the IRI don't  even cover 50% of the market but it also doesn't pick up and tell the true story when you have a retailer that is investing in an ad.
So we look at the pricing that's going in and not necessarily what the retail price is that a certain retailer would pick on that.
So I think that distorts it a little bit.
We see a lot of amusing carbonated soft drinks in certain geographic territories to drive traffic.
And so with that and the activities we're doing on promotion to drive traffic I think it's going to keep our brands very healthy in there.
Also on the talk on Nielsen on PIII the year-to-date total category CSDs were up a couple of points and teas were about flat but the juices up 2.
The juice increases we put are in -- like I said they were double digits.
You saw a little bit of a hit on Mott's coming across the 14% over a year ago.
But we feel very confident with the plans that we have behind Mott's that we can bring that thing back in with the prices.
Okay got it.
And then a little bit more on the timing from that standpoint.
I mean given the raw materials impact you are looking for in the second quarter and then a slightly more difficult comparison from a volume standpoint.
And then also the potential for corporate higher year-over-year.
If you look at it it sounds like that's going to be easily your toughest quarter.
And it looks as though we should look at that.
Is the way to look at that the big beneficiary from an earnings growth standpoint in that quarter is going to be just simply the repurchase and everything else is going to sort of offset the share repurchase is that the right way to look at numbers for next quarter? No.
I'll let Marty answer part of that.
I mean first on -- I'd kind of help you with the pricing.
If you look at our warehouse direct we took our first round of the pricing there went in effect March 1.
The second round will be around June 1.
And then our CSD business it's very opportunistic.
I mean it varies by geographic territory but it's been some have already pricing in.
We're not seeing a lot of pushback on it and we haven't really seen the volumes get affected by it.
I'll let Marty answer the second half of that question.
John as I said in my remarks Q2 is clearly the most challenging because we're going to lap low cost from last year and that's going to be a $70 million increase this year.
We will and we are continuing to purchase shares through the quarter.
And as we said we're still looking to do $400 million to $500 million this year.
We're not going to comment specifically on numbers by quarter other than to say that if you think through the higher costs you can do what you guys will all model whatever you want to model for the effect on EPS or share repurchases.
You'll get to some number for the quarter.
It's clearly going to be the most challenging.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Just following up on the volume question.
I guess in the quarter U.S.
volume was flatfish.
You're still expecting acceleration to 1% to 2%.
So just wondering in the back half and which brand is it more Snapple that continues to sort of carry the momentum? Or if you are more confident in some of the CSD brands that you think will carry deceleration on the volume fund as the year progresses.
And then in terms of your market share performance in the first quarter you did call out that you lost share in CSD.
So just wondering if you can give some perspective on the market share situation and how you see that progressing as the year progresses? Yes on the volume Judy we see -- of course we've got Sun Drop out there and we're testing the Dr Pepper 10 there's going to be some more of that towards the end of the year.
But the majority of our  volume has been driven by Dr Pepper Snapple.
We see a lot that we're going to be able to do with the Mott's brand.
As a total our Hawaiian Punch continues to do well and we are just thrilled to death with what Canada Dry has been doing.
So that's going to drive a lot of it for us.
If you look at what we're lapping in Q1 I mean the Nielsen numbers we did call out that we lost a little bit of share there.
But it was just what we were lapping in the first quarter before.
As I mentioned I mean Mott's was up 14% Snapple was up 17% Crush was up 22%.
And if you take the total share I mean we gained in all channels except convenience.
And in the convenience channel the Sun Drop and Mountain Dew are feeling strong.
Growth in citrus it's up 6%.
And as I mentioned a moment ago we still have a tremendous amount of opportunity in convenient and gas.
Okay.
And then as you think about your brand portfolio as we're coming out of the recession I think you're seeing acceleration in growth in some of the non-carbs categories that historically has been growing much faster whether it's enhanced water or ready-to-drink coffee or energy et cetera.
So wondering at this point if you're looking to participate more actively in some of those non-carbs categories.
Obviously you've got Snapple but outside of the tea categories.
We're still very happy with our portfolio where we can play across from the juices.
Our Snapple -- I mean regionally we play in water spreads in the Southwest with our Deja Blue.
Our Venom Energy we've got programs behind it for the year to play in the energy category.
But we're still very -- we stay focused on the total portfolio but we're putting a lot of emphasis right now on our carbonated soft drinks.
As I mentioned a moment ago I think with the tough economic times we're going see people come back in and recognize that value.
That's where we're -- to put in a strong focus.
The Snapple we think will just continue as it is.
It's been a great success story for us and the Hawaiian Punch as the economy is tough Hawaiian Punch is a favorite of  moms out there everywhere.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Question on the outlook for costs for 2012.
If prices of inputs were to stay -- if prices of inputs  stay at current levels what are your hedged positions like on 2012? And it seems like you've been hit a little harder than some people this year could there be some relative benefit to you next year do you think? We're not going to -- we've never really comment in our hedged position other than we do have some positions that go out into 2012.
I can't take that's hard to dissect.
Everybody is in the space.
Everybody's inflation numbers they're talking about them.
So what we've seen would sort of say that increases others are experiencing proportionate to us are about having about the same impact.
We're reasonably hedged.
I would say we have good visibility out next 3 to 6 months.
And we feel good about that beyond that.
We got some hedges and we'll look to change those positions over time as we normally would.
But that's all I can say at this point.
Okay.
And then if I go to price mix in the quarter can you help us understand how much was price? How much was mix? We had about 2 of them priced in the quarter.
So does that suggest mix was negative? No it was about flat.
So again if you look I think we laid it out in the press release but let's just go through the almost 7 points of our reported sales growth you get about 2 in pricing.
If you look at the total effect of the Pepsi Coke licensing agreements so both the effect of the deferred revenue amortization as well as the top line impact associated with the repatriated cases since those are now DSD cases and not concentrate cases the combined effect of those 2 were 3.
So and then you get a little bit of volume and a little bit of FX should reconcile to your 7%.
Okay.
Just to clarify but mix was slightly positive is that what you're saying? It's past flat.
It's positive.
Maybe slightly.
Because you have talked about single-serve growing and C-Stores doing well so why would mix not be more positive? The mix for us -- that channel mix is good but one of the biggest mix factors for us is both across the components of PB and within those.
So for example HP Is doing very well as most of you know it's a pretty low end of the per case product.
Okay.
And then if I could also just clarify the $70 million incremental cost in 2Q how much is it in COGS? And how much is in SG&amp;A? I think you're going to roughly come into about $40 million to $50 million in COGS.
Okay.
And then finally just looking at brands.
Within Dr Pepper can you sort of explain the moving parts there where I think the base Dr Pepper is growing? What's happening on Diet and Cherry and is 10 just as tiny test at this point? Yes.
I mean we're happy with all the portfolio Caroline.
We've had -- the 10 is in 6 markets.
Like I said I mean the results are fantastic.
We're very happy with it but it's very small whenever you look at the base of Dr Pepper.
Our Fountain foodservice is doing very well.
On the Diet Dr Pepper is also coming in on the Fountain.
So the Cherry is as stabilized out there.
But we're still seeing great growth in the coastal markets and our lower per cap markets where we really came out with the Dr Pepper Cherry for those markets.
So I think it's a good balance across the trademark.
And we're going to have some great activities for the summer.
I mean we're going to see a lot of traffic driving promotions and we're pretty pleased with it.
We're looking at saying it's about where we planned and it's falling in line.
Okay.
I was excited to hear about some of the Hispanic marketing you're doing.
But do you have a sense of whether you brands skew particularly favorably or which brands do amongst the Hispanic community? Very favorably very favor flavors.
Which is everything basically juices too? Yes.
I mean 7UP our Sunkist Dr Pepper especially with us coming out with Pitbull.
As everyone knows I mean probably the top brand is Squirt not only with the Hispanics in the U.S.
but also in Mexico.
So we've got a really great portfolio that has been playing well in our 21 targeted Hispanic markets.
Great.
Final question I expected you to buy more stock back in the quarter but do you think this is just a reasonable run rate for the full year? Or maybe you'll pick up a little bit to get to your $500 million? $400 to $500 million for the year.
So we spent $100 million.
So you would obviously expect that to be up a little balanced on a quarterly basis.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Brett Cooper of Consumer Edge Research.
Just a question on the incremental pricing you guys are expecting.
You've talked about 50 basis points relative to the original guidance you gave at the beginning of the year was the June juice price increase included in the original number? No.
No.
And is that the source of the 50 basis points? It's a large piece of it but it's not all of it.
Because we've got in CSDs.
I would say you would be looking at probably a 65/35 split and may be somewhere in there.
Good third of it in our DSD CSD business.
And so would you expect to be sort of an industry price increase post Labor Day? Or are you going to look to take CSD pricing over the course of the summer? As I said we'll do it opportunistically.
I don't really have the visibility to say exactly when it would be.
We have markets that have already taken it and we have markets that have plans in the next 2 to 6 weeks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ann Gurkin of Davenport.
LLC</strong> Just wanted to get an update on where we are with cooler placements.
Are you getting the lists from these incremental placements? We are.
We're on track.
I just had a meeting -- as I said I was in the field last week.
I was with the guys.
We are in our third year.
And as I had mentioned last year -- the first 3 years are always the easiest.
So we're very happy with how they're coming in.
We're going to stay with that strategy.
We're going to continue it.
But as we get into the year 4 and 5 we're going to be a lot more disciplined to make sure you're still getting the returns that we expect.
The returns have been great and we want to make sure that we'd maintain that.
That we don't start eroding our own margins on our cold drink.
LLC</strong> Right.
And then just a clarification the $10 million to $20 million potential increase in brand investment is that already in your numbers? Yes.
Yes it's in our numbers.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from Andrew Kieley of Deutsche Bank.
I just wanted to ask about the foodservice that's been a good growth driver for brand Dr Pepper.
If you could talk about what inning or what penetration level we're in with the brand and that foodservice channel as a driver going forward.
And then your commentary just now about the C-Store trends it looks like they've softened a little bit in terms of market share.
Can you just talk about what you think is behind that? I'll start with the Fountain piece.
So if you look at where we are right now on regular Dr Pepper we're probably somewhere around 50% and then about 20% on Diet.
So I mean that gives us a long long run way of opportunities right there.
And the Fountain foodservice team just keeps amazing us on how many new valves and voids they close each year.
And with -- the momentum just continues to build as we get them out there.
We get a halo effect from the competitors that are around them wanting the Pepper and the Diet Pepper on also.
The other part of the question on convenience.
Our convenience is continuing to grow.
Our single-serve is growing.
We did -- on Neilsen show some numbers.
That was the only channel we really lost in.
But it really hasn't concerned us.
I mean we watch it constantly but we watch much more the volumes what our velocities are doing and how we continue to close distribution voids and close those gaps.
Okay.
And then I just want to go back to the Core 4 and how the competitors are sort of looking at the flavored category.
And I guess specifically on fruit flavors do you see -- it seems like more attention is going there.
Do you see that? And how would a brand like Fanta -- what's the interaction on something like that versus Crush for example? Yes.
All the attention is good.
I mean it drives more people into the category and we get more traffic.
Fanta is a great brand.
I mean you get out there.
It's what we've done all of our lives.
You know you find it on the street each brand.
And so I think it's going to be good for the categories.
We're going to make those segments grow.
We're very comfortable with our brands because they're #1 #2 in their categories.
We've done a lot of promotions behind them.
As I mentioned a moment ago 7UP is getting ready to do some things with Celebrity Apprentice.
We've got movie tie-ins with our Core 4 this time but our bottlers are very excited.
Our tie-ins have usually always been with Dr Pepper and now we've got them with the core.
So I mean we've got a lot of plans in place that will continue to build help close the distribution voids and keep giving us our volume growth.
Okay.
And then just a last question on the SG&amp;A and the marketing spend.
This quarter on a relative basis it was down a good control over the SG&amp;A line.
Even with the stepped up marketing activity.
In some of the recent commentary at the comps because it seems like there is some new discussions about keeping the marketing budgets or marketing dollars flat for the year.
And so is that a function of the commodity pressure? And do you feel you have enough flexibility in terms of marketing dollars for the year? Any constraints there? I mean first of all we said this morning we could take marketing up $10 million to $20 million.
So that's maybe new information because we had talked about flat marketing.
It is unrelated to what's happening with the commodities.
We have opportunities to invest properly in -- particularly if we accelerate Dr Pepper 10 we're not going to  withhold the investments simply because commodity prices are up in the short-term.
All right.
When we see brands respond to spend I mean that's what we really look at and say "Can we drive more growth?" And then to Marty's point the success we've seen with 10 we may pull that forward.
Okay.
Maybe one more for Marty.
In the release they say in the concentrate segment there is a mention of unfavorable discount timing I was just wondering what that refers to? Yes that refers to a carryover effect from the fourth Quarter and it's the difference between accruing their spend back to bottlers on BCS which is the shipments out of the bottlers versus our shipments into the bottlers.
So you're always going have a little bit of increase or decrease due to timing of what really is an accounting accrual.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from Carlos LaBoy of Credit Suisse.
Larry when do you see positive volume numbers again for 7UP Sunkist and A&amp;W? Well the Sunkist Carlos whenever we -- I'll take that one first whenever we decided to roll Crush nationally we knew that there was going to be some cannibalization on Sunkist.
And I think the thing that we look at is it is actually better than what we thought it would be.
So the category is growing and we look at it and manage the total orange category there.
So it's done very well.
With the Core 4 we also managed that Core 4 as a portfolio.
We have a lot of growth coming with our Canada Dry.
We just talked about what we're doing with the 7UP.
7UP had some really great -- a couple of great quarters after we did the refresh and the launch on it we're going to back that up with The Celebrity Apprentice.
And we're seeing a lot of positive momentum in our Hispanic markets.
So we feel very good with those.
I think we're going to see the brands stabilize in the summer especially whenever you look at last year with the hot pricing activity that was out there.
Our Core 4 brands were not included in that.
So as the summer comes around we're going to see a lot of upside there and we feel very positive about that.
Larry as you cycle your Coke and Pepsi agreement what's your expected growth rate for the brands that are new to those networks? There's no new brands in their networks you mean the...
Try Crush Canada Dry.
Okay.
Well on the Coke side I mean we look at it.
We don't set volume targets for our partners.
I mean we look at it and say how is the brand performing? And how is that category performing? How is the balance of the country performing? So I  mean we still look at it and say -- with our flavors they all tie together the long-term we're going to be looking at the total portfolio being up about 1%.
Thank you Lar.
Your next question comes from Damian Witkowski of Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Larry I just wanted to confirm that your comments on immediate consumption trends are current not just as of the first quarter.
You're still seeing pretty good strength in immediate consumption not just as of the end of March but...
Absolutely.
Inc.</strong> And then are you seeing a lot of difference in terms of geography? If you look at your big markets Texas for example employment in oceatic I think is growing quite nicely and the economy is doing a lot better than the U.S.
on average so are you seeing the differences in demand based on the markets that are doing a lot different in the immediate consumption versus others? Yes.
That's really hard to answer but it is very geographic.
If you look at Texas and really the deep dive on Texas.
Texas was really delayed coming into the recession.
So I mean we're seeing some markets that are actually stronger than what we're  seeing in Texas.
We can go all the way up to the Rust Belt the Iron Belt where it was hit the hardest even though it's still down it's improving.
We're seeing a lot of good activity in the Southeast and the Southwest that's starting to come back that was hit the hardest probably with building construction and items like that.
Not where anybody wants them but it's coming off of the base and it's improving so that encourages us.
Inc.</strong> And then I know your pricing has been rational and hasn't -- you haven't had to discount a lot of it.
Do you think you -- do you have any sense whether C-Stores are actually discounting and taking ahead to their margins just to drive traffic a lot more today than they were 6 months ago? I haven't really seen that.
We're doing a lot to drive traffic.
Our promotions are to help drive it.
They don't  really ever do anything on the single-serve I mean the single-serve pretty well stays at the price points.
There could be some activity on some others.
In the convenient channel we're  doing some things with 1 liter and with 6-pack given some variety in there.
But I think the biggest thing our customers want to see us do is promotions that help drive in drive the traffic in because once we get them in there it's not that big a decision and not that big of an out of pocket experience for them and our products will move.
Inc.</strong> And then just lastly now that you want to really focus on it but in the first quarter weather I mean it couldn't have helped I imagine that.
You got a sense of what -- I mean what could have been I guess? Well you'd never can really dimensionalize that but as everyone knows I mean February I mean the entire country had something bizarre going on with weather.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
And your final question this morning comes from Mark Schwartzberg of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> A question for you on North America bottler case sales.
You were basically flat in the quarter I think there were 2 in the fourth quarter too for 10 do you think that you're at the bottom rate in terms of rate of growth slowing? Or do you think it needs to get a little worse because of the Crush laps? Where are we in the kind of this slowdown? Well I don't really look at them as in a slowdown.
I got some big numbers on the lapping and I've got the promotions out there right now.
As I mentioned a moment ago Mark I mean we're lapping Crush at 22% growth Snapple at 17% Mott's at 14%.
Those are some great numbers and sometimes a little hard to beat those.
But what we have going forward and our plans and our promotions activity we're very confident.
So obviously the market will bear but do you think flat is as much as we'll see you'll start  bouncing off of flat? Or do you think the Crush issue means it has to get a little more negative before that? No.
We're looking at 1% to 2%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> On the bottler case in North America? In North America.
Well I'd like to thank everybody for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Dr Pepper Snapple.
And ladies and gentlemen that concludes the Dr Pepper Snapple First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
We appreciate your time.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr.
Aly Noormohamed Senior Vice President of Finance.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Aly and good morning everyone.
As we highlighted in earlier calls Q2 is expected to be our most challenging quarter of the year.
Compounding an already very tough volume comparison double-digit COGS inflation and incremental pricing actions April was weaker than expected and the consumer continued to reflect uncertainty.
Against this very challenging backdrop our portfolio of leading consumer-preferred brands posted solid results.
In fact we outperformed the category in CSDs teas and juices.
I remain concerned about the U.S.
economy unemployment trends and the impact this is having on the overall spending patterns.
For the quarter and year-to-date bottler case sales were flat lapping 3% growth in the prior year.
Dr Pepper volume declined 3% lapping 3% growth as retailer-led price-offs last year were not repeated.
I am once again pleased to report that Dr Pepper Fountain volume grew 5% on new distribution gains.
Combined our Core 4 Sun Drop and CREST brands grew 1%.
Canada Dry growth remained on trend up double digits.
And Sun Drop continued to gain distribution adding 2 million incremental cases.
Snapple was up 8% as we continued to gain distribution in both 6-pack glass and 64-ounce PET.
Hawaiian Punch volume was flat as a high single-digit price increase took effect June 1.
We're also seeing a greater mix shift towards the 10-ounce package.
As expected Mott's declined 10% as we took double-digit price increases early in the year to fully cover apple juice concentrate inflation.
For the quarter currency-neutral net sales grew 3% on flat volume.
Price mix added 2 points to growth while deferred revenue recognition and repatriated cases under the Coke license agreement added a point to growth.
Segment operating profit on a currency-neutral basis declined 5% or $19 million as we incurred almost $70 million of input and transportation cost inflation in the quarter.
Margin investment in Q2 were up only $4 million as we shifted approximately $10 million to the third quarter to support key innovation planks and to remind consumers of the value of our brands.
As we highlighted during our first quarter call we have opportunities to invest incrementally in our brands and we now expect full-year marketing to be up $25 million to $30 million.
For the quarter diluted earnings per share grew 4% to $0.77.
This was better than our flattish expectations due to the shift of marketing investments.
Increasing awareness and availability of our brands is a key focus for us and I'm thrilled with the progress we're making in 2011.
We've increased the availability of our core CSD tea and juice SKUs in both grocery and convenience.
In grocery for example Dr Pepper ACV distribution is up 1 point while Snapple and Canada Dry are up 3 and 4 points respectively.
We make great progress in cold drink with 14 000 net new placements so far this year.
In Fountain we're tracking right along in line with our plans for both key and local accounts with net new installs up 12 000 valves.
We've increased consumer communications on our core brands and supported key innovation planks such as Sun Drop Mott's for Tots and Mott's Medleys.
Dr Pepper's tie-in with Thor resulted in over 1 billion media impressions and Snapple's integration in The Amazing Race generated over 400 million impressions.
We're penetrating low per-capita markets by shifting dollars from national media to local and making sure local media is supported by strong retail activation.
Moving on to innovation we're seeing strong trial and repeat in our new products.
Laps users are returning new users are experimenting and heavy marketing support is providing a halo in the base business.
Since its national launch in January Sun Drop has grown by almost 90% adding 5 million incremental cases.
This brand now has a 4 share of the highly competitive Citrus CSD category up almost 2 share points.
Grocery ACV distribution is at 90% and convenience is at 55%.
We're kicking off strong balance of the year activity with a back-to-school promotion including college campus sampling and our active social programming and an online sweepstakes.
AC distribution of Hawaiian Punch 10-ounce is now at 70%.
We have sold over 3 million cases of this convenient on-the-go package.
We've added new users to the franchise and at almost twice the profit per unit our retailers are making a nice turn as well.
In Snapple our 64-ounce PET offering is driving about half the trademark's growth year-to-date.
With grocery ACV now 38% we still have plenty of runway ahead of us.
We also believe retailers are using Snapple to help them drive profitable growth in the tea category.
As we all know bringing back CSD occasions is a huge opportunity and we believe Dr Pepper 10 can do this.
In DP 10 test markets not only did we see strong overall trademark growth but more importantly Regular and Diet Dr Pepper both grew.
With purchase intent velocity and repeat rates in the test markets exceeding our expectations we're ready to take this product national.
Our media plan kicks off on 10/10 and we will leverage our great association with college football to drive huge consumer awareness and trial.
The launch will also be supported by strong retailer activation trial packaging targeted coupons and innovative merchandising and displays.
With that let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through some of our below-the-line items and 2011 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
Let me echo Larry's comments.
While we are very pleased by the resilience of our brands in what we highlighted would be our most challenging quarter we are somewhat concerned about the health of the consumer when the lower income side appears to be more cautious about their spending.
That said we believe our balance-of-the-year initiatives will still allow us to achieve our expected results which I'll discuss in a few moments.
Now moving on to below-the-line items.
Corporate costs were $81 million for the quarter essentially flat to last year.
This included $7 million of unrealized mark-to-market losses as we unwound gains from the portfolio of favorable hedge contracts.
For the remainder of the year we would expect corporate cost including mark-to-market losses to be around $80 million a quarter in line with our beginning-of-the-year guidance.
Net interest expense was $28 million again flat to last year and a good run rate for the balance of the year.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 35% in line with our full-year guidance and included $6 million of Pepsi and Coke-related tax benefits.
Due to the timing of certain items the tax rate in Q3 will be about 100 basis points higher than our expected full year rate.
Moving on to cash flow year-to-date cash from operating activities was $256 million.
This includes $37 million of cash taxes paid on the under Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements.
Capital spending was $104 million compared to $114 million last year.
We continue to focus on working capital and CapEx management and are delivering better-than-expected results from rapid continuous improvement.
We remain well ahead of our cash-conversion cycle improvement goals and expect to be 5 days better on average for the year.
This should enable us to have free cash flow for the year ahead of our beginning-of-the-year expectations.
We remain committed to returning free cash flow to our shareholders.
On May 18 our Board of Directors raised our quarterly dividend 28% to $0.32.
We view this as an initial step towards being able to consistently raise our dividend over time.
Through June of this year total distributions to our shareholders were $436 million $325 million in share repurchases and $111 million in dividends.
For the year we continue to expect net sales to grow in the 3% to 5% range.
Even though volume trends may be softer than we previously expected as we now expect balance of the year pricing in the 3% range which combined with the almost 2 points of pricing in the first half gives us about 2.5 points of price for the year 50 basis points higher than our beginning-of-the-year expectations.
Also included in our net sales guidance is about 2 points of benefit from the Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements and foreign currency which is up slightly from our earlier expectations.
Full year earnings per share are still expected to be in the $2.70 to $2.78 range.
Our assumptions around input and transportation cost inflation remain unchanged from our last update.
Again as forward prices for our unhedged positions we continue to expect packaging and ingredients to increase total cost of goods by 7% to 9% on a constant volume mix basis.
Also consistent with our last update transportation costs included in SG&amp;A are expected to be up approximately $35 million.
As we highlighted during our first quarter call we have opportunities to invest incrementally in our brands to support innovation and ensure we remain top of mind with our consumers.
This is particularly important now given rising prices and increased consumer purchasing pressure.
For the year we now expect marketing investments to be up $25 million to $30 million.
With the phasing adjustments we made in Q2 marketing spend is now more evenly spread over the full year.
For your modeling purposes however you should expect to see about a $10 million increase year-over-year in the third quarter.
Our EPS guidance also assumes a full-year tax rate of approximately 35% which includes an $18 million onetime benefit related to the Pepsi and Coke licensing transactions.
As I said earlier you should expect to see a step-up in the tax rate in Q3 and then a step-down in Q4 again due to the timing of certain tax items.
In terms of cash flow capital spending is projected to be approximately 4.5% of net sales.
I am encouraged by the progress we're making at RCI and therefore we expect to see further productivity in this number over time.
Finally we remain on track to repurchase approximately $400 million to $500 million of our common stock in 2011 subject to market conditions.
As I indicated earlier we continue to make excellent progress behind our developing RCI capabilities.
We are seeing greater activity and engagement across the organization and this is delivering better-than-expected results.
Through June we have completed 46 projects and almost 700 of our employees are now licensed to Kaizen.
In terms of milestones we achieved our very first Super Kaizen at our Aspers Pennsylvania plant running 4 events simultaneously.
We were very fortunate to have had some of you join us for this event and experience firsthand the engagement and enthusiasm of the cross-functional teams and their ability to make breakthrough changes.
At the start of the event we estimated cash savings of $2.3 million.
By the end of the week we were at $5.8 million in cash savings with a very long list of new ideas.
We have also had tremendous participation by our Mexico team in using RCI to focus on improvements in sales supply chain and back office.
With a number of great wins behind us I have asked the RCI team to focus on 3 things in the near term.
First ensure the improvements we have achieved so far are sustaining themselves; second begin replicating these achievements across different locations and ensuring consistency of process; and third increase the use of visual management tools to ensure alignment of goals within every team in every part of the business.
As I have said before we're still in the very early stages of this journey but I'm extremely pleased with and proud of our achievements so far.
We're using RCI to improve in every aspect of its 5 platforms: safety quality delivery productivity and growth.
And we believe we're well on our way to achieving at least $150 million of cash productivity benefits through 2013.
With that let me turn the call back to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
Our teams remain committed to executing our focused strategy ensuring our products are close at hand and top of mind.
We're seeing this in terms of solid distribution gains positive immediate consumption trends increased levels of local consumer communications improved brand activation and above-category trends in CSDs teas and juices.
Over time we expect to cover higher input cost with pricing and productivity but not completely this year.
We do so with an eye to always deliver value to our customers and ensuring we're investing wisely in this business for the long-term sustainable growth.
Finally we're winning with RCI with increasing levels of activity and engagement leading to better-than-expected results.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Christine Farkas with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Marty I had a question for you regarding the productivity program.
Your press release it does -- they do show us what you're seeing on a quarter-to-quarter basis and that number is slowing a little bit $6 million year-to-date versus $17 million in the first half of last year.
I'm wondering if you can help us with how that's going what's your year-end targets are if those changed at all? And then a follow-up question on taxes paid for Pepsi and Coke payments is that coming through evenly through this year versus the big lump sum payment in the first part of 2012? Yes the numbers you're quoting relate to productivity office expenditures which are actually a piece of but not the larger piece of what's happening in RCI.
As I said I think I'm a little bullish on my comments this morning which is a little uncharacteristic of me sometimes because I've seen what this organization has done in such a short period of time.
And so -- and I know a few people some of our investors one analyst actually went out to the plant and had their own observations and that was really just one project of the many we've had.
So we're firing on all cylinders.
I'm confident that we'll get at least $150 million.
We haven't really called out specifically RCI productivity benefits directly in terms of cash flow or cost savings.
But again my comment about where we are in days of inventory if you even look at this quarter we're down 3 days on a comparable basis with last June.
That's $18 million of cash.
That means a lot to us.
It means a lot to the organization and we're just at the -- scratching the surface really in some of these areas.
So over time I'll try to share more with you and give you a better sense of where you can actually see in the financials the result because we see a lot of good indicators inside but you can't see them necessarily on the outside just looking at what we publish.
With tax payments let me -- there's a -- we had said this year that we would have about $53 million to $55 million as I recall for the full year and as I said $37 million has already been paid so that leaves about $18 million in the second half.
The large payment the majority of the payment is about $535 million and that's a Q1 2012 payment.
Okay that's helpful.
And Larry just a broader question for you or 2-parter why did you decide to defer some marketing spend into the second half? And then broadly why are you or why do you seem more comfortable with pricing coming in at a bit stronger in the second half? I think the biggest reason for the shift was a lot of our national went to a local media shift and we're trying to tie more with our local activation on retail.
And so it made a lot of sense for us to move that especially with some more activity coming from Sun Drop and then also the launch of DP 10.
And then on pricing I mean pricing continue to be very rational.
I think everybody's kind of heard that everybody's moving in the second half.
So with that pricing move you've got to have more marketing to keep that brand top-of-mind and our retail teams keeping it close at hand so that we continue to show the value to that consumer.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
I just want to clarify a couple of things.
First of all how is July started off from a sales perspective? It's pretty warm out there.
I know that's what I was thinking.
So I mean I know that it could all fall apart in September but I'm assuming this is pretty damn good for CSDs? Yes I mean you look at Q2 Caroline I think everybody knows that April was pretty tough in Q2.
I think a lot of companies are saying they didn't see an Easter this year.
So I think we've got our challenges out there.
But so far we're in line.
Okay.
And then you didn't give -- you gave some hints about the third quarter needing to come down because it sounds like $10 million more in marketing spend than you'd originally thought on a higher tax rate.
So can you help us understand for the third quarter just what sort of growth outlook we should have for earnings? Well Caroline we don't give quarterly guidance.
But I think you hit on the 2 important things for purposes of your modeling which is the marketing spend of $10 million will be in Q3 the incremental and the tax rate will be higher.
And higher tax rate like 37%? Last year you were 37.7% in the third quarter.
I said in my prepared remarks 100 basis points over the full year rate.
Okay fine good.
And then if I could just understand for the full year is the $25 million or so increase a number that relates to marketing and advertising? What's included in this both the $10 million shift that you talked about and the I think $20 million to $25 million increase full year? The answer is yes the marketing spend includes advertising.
And if you look at the larger programs you'd be looking at Sun Drop Dr Pepper and our sponsorship of college football and now the Dr Pepper 10 national launch in the fall.
Okay.
And then also if you could clarify on Dr Pepper volume did the number you release include the Fountain growth? Yes it did.
So it was down 3 with Fountain up 4 or 5? Down 2 and most of that Caroline was lapping the retail activity of a year ago when we had 24 packs out there from anywhere from $3.88 to $5 which was not repeated this year.
So it seems like that was really about the comp and then Dr.
Pepper -- I mean I think you last time shared this quarter overall which we just haven't seen in a long time.
Would you expect that to reverse? I haven't seen any share loss on our CSDs and no -- well definitely you're going to see the Dr Pepper volume change because we won't be lapping those ridiculously old prices of last year.
And Dr Pepper 10 is going to help also tremendously.
And the launch is October for Dr Pepper 10? Right.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Larry just in terms of your volume outlook.
I mean you sound a little bit more cautious just generally about the consumer outlook here.
So I guess as the industry is taking more pricing in the back half how are you thinking about the price elasticity? And on the pricing side what's the risk that as we deal with a tough consumer environment that even though you guys are taking list price increases the retailers and perhaps manufacturers have to give back more in terms of promo spending? Yes we've not seen that yet.
I mean our pricing has been able to be pretty stable.
And as more pricing comes in to affect this month and I think you'll see most of that impact probably in August.
That's one of the reasons we've shifted some of the marketing so that we can continue to show value and keep our brands top of mind out there at all times.
I say that I'm cautious.
It's not gotten into -- the consumer's not getting any worse.
They're just not improved like we thought they would.
You guys have heard me say before we continue to serve them bad news for breakfast everyday.
Okay.
And then just on the clarification on the marketing spending so the $25 million to $30 million increase for the full year that compares to the $10 million to $15 million that you called out last quarter? That's correct.
Okay.
So I guess the question is really -- I mean your guidance for earnings haven't really changed even though potential marketing spending is higher than what you thought before.
So are there any positive offsets in terms of how you're getting to the full year guidance that's still intact even though marketing spending is now going up more? Yes I mean Judy again so our top line guidance has a couple of moving parts that are important a little more pricing a little less volume.
But that gives us a little more margin contribution to fund the higher marketing.
Okay.
And then Larry just in terms of Sun Drop just the ACV progression that you're seeing maybe if you can talk about take home versus convenience because certainly it seems like take home you've got a pretty good distribution out there but C stores you're probably still lagging a little bit.
Can you talk about the pace of progression particularly on C stores from an ACV perspective in the next 6 months or so? Exactly.
Yes.
Judy we're very happy with the performance we've seen so far.
Our convenience ACV right now is at 55% and we're seeing that continue to grow.
We've got great programs in the back half.
Our partner with MTV we've got some more activity going there.
So we feel very confident with the Sun Drop in the back half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Farmer with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> There's been a lot of discussion about last summer's promotional environment.
Could just remind me how that activity progressed over the summer for your brands? Yes I mean basically it broke before Labor Day and it had an effect on Q2 and Q3.
I think the biggest effect was on Q2.
But we had activity out there with the 24 packs that were running anywhere from -- it started off at $5.
It got all the way down to $3.88 a 24-pack.
If you look at what's out there today I mean we're basically selling 12 packs for that price or higher.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then you did touch on this but just on Dr Pepper 10 if you use some of your other recent brand extensions I guess I would point to Dr Pepper Cherry as a benchmark.
How does Dr Pepper 10 compare in the test marks in terms of the some of the volume numbers you're seeing? Like I'd mentioned in my prepared comments we're just beating every expectation we set on it.
We still got Pepper and Diet Pepper grilling in the test markets.
Dr Pepper Cherry is still staying very viable out there.
And just from the test results we're seeing that stronger results than what we saw with Dr Pepper Cherry in the beginning.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just finally for me just on Snapple you talked about this in the past but with some of that mix volume going to the 64-ounce container what type of impact might that have on margins? It shouldn't.
It's just basically going to be neutral.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Maybe we could just go back to pricing for a moment.
Just first a clarification does the 2 -- sorry the 3 points price mix that I saw over the balance of the year is that inclusive of mix benefits as you repatriate the bands from the Coke system? And then just more specifically I guess what kind of elasticity are you expecting on those price increases in the second half? It looks like your full-year volume guidance it now kind of implied to be slight to negative which implies a pretty good drop-off in the second half despite the easier comps from the Dr Pepper innovation.
So is that math right and what are your assumptions there? Steve it's Marty.
Number one no our 3% price does not include any impact of the transfer cases.
And I would say our current volume expectation you said negative we would say maybe 0 to 1 which is a little softer than we previously had.
Again as a result of our view of the elastic impact the higher pricing in the back half will have.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Can you help me bridge that with the 3% to 5% total top line guidance? If you're looking at 3% pricing flat-to-neutral volume benefits from FX plus the repatriated brands how does not add up to 5-plus? Okay but 3% to 5% so full year.
So when you bake all the pricing at first half second half you're really like at 2.5%.
Yes FX has been -- has recently become a tailwind for us.
So we're getting a little benefit there.
The totality of the Coke and Pepsi deals both the revenue amortization and in this case the higher top line from the repatriated cases into our system is about 1.5%.
I mean those are the major factors.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Maybe shifting gears a bit.
You talked about some foodservice again being positive which is great.
Can you give us a sense of the performance trends you're seeing and/or expect to see as the pricing goes into effect in the other channels convenience versus grocery versus mass versus dollar and/or any comments you might have on either regional differences.
Are you still seeing better performance in lower per-cap markets versus the higher per-cap markets? Or is that performance gap kind of started to narrow or even reverse? Our lower per-caps are still doing very well.
I mean we've had a very focused strategy in there and it's being executed very good.
You look across the channels I mean let's start with convenience.
If you look at overall traffic and dollars spend in convenience is growing in some markets the CSDs are lagging a little bit on the improvement.
We're watching QSR traffic come up with a higher dollar spend.
And so the different trends we're watching there are encouraging but not exactly where we thought they would be at this time.
We thought there would be more improvement.
Our large format we have lots of activity going in large format.
As I mentioned earlier pricing has continued to stay very rational.
We've got a lot of tie-ins this summer with movies we've got our Core 4 tied with Captain America.
Dr Pepper is with Thor.
You saw the impressions we got on that.
So we're doing a lot of things in the large-format to show value.
It can be delivered in more ways than price off.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Lastly I guess the Core 4 x Canada Dry 7UP I guess specifically the reactions you saw with some of the activity you had in the quarter versus your expectations coming in and do you still have the optimism you had a quarter ago in terms of the improvement in 7UP specifically and then kind of your outlook for when Sunkist and A&amp;W might turn the corner quarter as well? Yes no we look at our Core 4 as a total and it's up one.
So we're just very very happy with that.
7UP we're still very bullish on 7UP.
We mentioned earlier kind of what we've been seeing with Canada Dry that runway's long there also.
With the summer coming up Q3 I think you'll see our Core 4 still doing well because some of the hot activity a year ago our Core 4 wasn't involved in.
So we're happy with that.
Sunkist we've got lots of plans behind Sunkist.
We've got great expectations for it.
It's a brand we believe in and we've got the bottling system behind it and some activity we're going to see through the summer that's going to give us some dividends.
Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.
A couple of questions on cash return if I could follow up on some of the commentary.
First it looks like year-to-date you've purchased about $325 million.
The guidance of course is $400 million to $500 million.
That implies at minimum you're likely trending to be at the high end.
But Marty do you see any flexibility for increasing that amount? We have authority by our Board to do more than this.
So yes we can should we so choose.
Okay.
And then on the dividend increase you mentioned it's the first step to potential increases over time.
Can we maybe imply that those increases would be ahead of earnings growth given your cash flow profile? Well I think clearly our cash flow generation will probably be a larger consideration than simply the earnings growth over time.
We need a sustainable cash flow improvement of course to fund the dividend.
But clearly early on now you're right.
We have more cash flow capacity.
We're almost on a dollar basis we can -- we're simply self-funding future increases out of shares we're buying back.
We did buy back 5.7 million shares in the quarter we are down to about 217 million shares outstanding presently.
And as we continue to buy back shares the total dollar commitment to the dividend gets offset by any raises in the dividend.
I think what we're trying to communicate is we understand that many of our shareholders view the yield as a strong component of total return.
And we're cognizant of that and we want to try to raise it over time to provide them with a requisite level of return consistent with our business the peer groups we're in and some other data point.
And yes we have the ability to do so.
Is there a target payout or anything or is it too early? Not at this point.
Maybe one day we will we'll express that as a policy but I think it's too early.
Got it.
And then if I could ask we spent a lot of time in 2010 talking about Crush but you haven't mentioned it at all.
Can you maybe talk about how Crush obviously it's got some tough laps how that's doing? And then also the dynamics between Sunkist and Crush? Yes I mean we're still very pleased with the Crush performance.
We've got again activity in the third quarter with retail retail execution on Crush.
So we're very pleased with it.
To your point I mean it had some unbelievable costs to come against.
Whenever you compare it with Sun Drop -- I mean with Sunkist we knew that we were going to have some cannibalization on Sunkist.
And actually it wasn't high as we thought it would be.
But you have to look at the overall category with Crush and Sun Drop or Sunkist both in there.
We have really expanded that category.
And if you look at the Crush right now up 21% last year for the first half and basically flat now.
So it's kind of hard not to like numbers like that.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I guess starting with the pricing environment Larry you've been very consistent describing it as rational.
There's obviously been some debate about that over the last week or so.
How would you compare kind of what you're seeing in July to what you saw at the beginning of the summer in the first half? Any change in -- I mean obviously you're going for more pricing but would you just describe the environment as more disciplined or pretty similar to where it was in the first half? Well I think it's pretty similar is what I have say Mark.
I think we'll see it more disciplined as some of the pricing comes -- it takes hold at the end of July 1st of August.
Seeing a lot more with packaging not just 12- or 24-packs stacked out there.
We're seeing activity with 2 liters and 1/2 liter PET different-sized can packages which I think is very good for us and good for the industry and the category that we get more choices out there.
So I think the pricing's going to be rational.
I mean if you look at what we're seeing with commodities I mean it has to be.
And I think the biggest challenge for everybody is delivering that value to the consumer.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then a few questions on brand Larry Snapple Sun Drop and Dr Pepper can you talk a little bit about your outlook for Snapple sequentially pretty similar to the first quarter but a much easier compare.
How are you feeling about the condition of that brand and the outlook for growth there? Now we're looking at Snapple discontinues.
I mean the premium since we converted to 6-pack we're looking at that as continuing to grow.
We're seeing household penetration.
We're seeing more activity in retailers.
We're getting more space.
So we're just very very pleased with what we're seeing on Snapple.
And I expect it to come close again to a double-digit growth this year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then I might have missed it but on Sun Drop what are you seeing on the repeat side of things how are you feeling that how's that's playing out? Very good.
Very good.
And that's why I said we've got more activity coming into place for the back half.
It's one of those things where you take a brand that was very regional and take it national.
One of the most important things is stay behind the retail execution get it top of mind close at hand and have patience.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Great.
And then Dr Pepper in the state of Texas it's had some problems.
I think it's declining and DP 10 should help.
But could you just talk a little bit about the brand in that particular state what you think is going on to what extent it's a larger consumer issue to what extent you think it's a brand issue speak to its performance there? Well to your point I mean it's one of our largest markets.
I don't think as I talked with the guys out here I don't think we really have any concern.
I think some of it's just timing.
When you look at what happened last year with some of the pricing there was tremendous volume growth to Texas.
So we got to kind of lap those numbers.
At this point we really don't have a concern on that Mark.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Just want to follow up a little bit on a couple of the questions on the pricing and then related to the guidance because as you talked about sort of funding the extra marketing spending in the back half of the year you talked about more pricing.
And I guess is that more pricing than you had built in your last guidance because the marketing spending is up from the last guidance.
But the pricing -- again so are you seeing the ability to take more pricing in the market now than you would have thought 3 months ago? Because again that's kind of not necessarily what I think the rest of us are feeling like here.
John it's Marty.
Our answer is yes.
And that's what I said in my remarks.
It was probably an incremental 0.5 point or so in the back half I think we lapped at 2.5 and now we're looking at -- when we look across our portfolio both the CSDs and the non-carbs and put it together you'll see a number about 3.
And so in that incremental improvement then and I apologize if I missed it before it sounds like you may be indicating that's mostly coming on the non-carb side.
Those are a little bit larger.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Gurkin with Davenport.
LLC</strong> I wanted to talk about the consumer a little more.
Do you think there is a growing risk as a consumer is switching to tap water from any beverage choice? I was kind of curious of your opinion on that trend.
No as we kind of watch the economy and the unemployment levels there's always going to be an impact on the consumer.
I mean in the past they've traded down to CSDs value juices and you're right tap water.
But traffic overall is looking up.
I think we just have to stay very focused as I said a moment ago of showing that we can deliver value without just strictly price off.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then secondly any stab at how we should think about cost in 2012 versus '11? Hi it's Marty.
With respect to -- I assume you mean commodity cost? LLC</strong> Right.
So for balance of this year we've got pretty good visibility 3 to 6 months out clearly less so into 2012.
We'll be putting on some more 2012 cover here probably over the next couple of months.
So we feel pretty good about the next 3 and 6 months and that's why we're staying with our 7% to 9% 2011 increase.
But it's really too early to share too many details yet for 2012.
The next question comes from the line of Damian Witkowski with Gabelli.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to go back Larry on your comment on the consumer.
And you've said it before that it's not the consumer is necessarily getting worse it's just that they're not getting as better as you hoped.
And I think this was kind of addressed but I just want to make sure I understood that.
Is it the fact that you just simply look out there and say "Well gallon of gasoline is up over $1 versus a year ago and unemployment is still above 9%." Is that what gives you pause or is this something that you're actually seeing cracks somewhere in your channels that give you the more cautious tone on the consumer? We didn't see as much decline with gas going up compared to what it did in 2008 Damian.
So it's not as much of that.
It's just that as we laid out our plans we thought we would see more improvement than what we did.
As everybody can tell I mean I think in the entire industry none of us thought commodities would hit us where they did.
So that kind of -- there were wrenches in the gears there that I think we've done a great job of managing through.
So the consumer will always be a top of mind for me.
As I mentioned they haven't gotten worse but I just thought it would be a little better by now.
And I think we still have room for improvement.
Inc.</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just Mexico you had a great first half in terms of volume help from currency.
But the operating income is still kind of is lagging and I'm just trying to figure out if this is a -- if 2011 is sort of a transition year for Mexico and we should look at it going up in terms of operating margins going forward? Or is it a structural change and we're sort of looking at depressed operating margins there for the foreseeable future? And then sort of any changes in the distribution thinking there? Pepsi just announced something and I'm just curious if you have any thoughts.
I'll let Marty kind of go through some points on this for you.
But you're right I mean this is a -- we turned Mexico over to reporting into Jim Johnston our President.
We're relooking how we go to market.
It's a restructure a rebuild year.
And we remain very bullish on Mexico.
I mean we've just got to get it set up right.
And I keep up with what other people have done in Mexico but that really doesn't change how I look at our strategy and I'll let Marty kind of hit some of the points we're doing down there.
Well the good news in Mexico got just completely swallowed up by inflation.
In fact if you just look at the margins for that segment almost 700 basis points of decline in the quarter due to mostly commodities in the 500 basis point range and almost 200 in fuel which really just completely smothered about 200 basis points of gain they would have that in the margin from all the good things including the increases in some of their key brands.
Peafiel up 6% Clamato was up 29% Squirt was up 10% in a difficult environment.
They actually -- but for the cost increase that they could not control they actually did very well in our judgment for the quarter.
Inc.</strong> And is Mexico an actual cash flow drain Marty on your cash flows? No actually just the opposite.
We were actually surprised.
The combination of some of the things I said including -- I can't tell you how much RCI they've done.
They've done a lot.
And as a result they actually showed us a little more cash in the quarter than I actually thought they could generate.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Marty I think you said you have now $217 million basic shares outstanding that's as of when? As of today.
You'll see that on the number on the face of the 10-Q when we file it.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Cooper with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Two questions.
First of all on Dr Pepper foodservice you guys mentioned that the distribution gains certainly got you some benefit but can you break out what was distribution versus existing valve? You mean break out? LLC</strong> The growth so you had 4% growth.
What contributed from distribution or existing valve? Yes let me see if I can find it.
I think about -- on the distribution side it was probably about 70% of that growth and then the rest was same-store growth.
LLC</strong> And then just to continue on the pricing side of it I think in your last call you indicated that juice -- I'm sorry non-carbs were getting you guys at 150 basis points of pricing for the overall company.
So that would imply that your CSD pricing in the second half is going to be up in the 2% range is that right? That's right.
I don't recall if we broke it down last quarter but for CSDs yes about 2% for balance.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kieley with Deutsche Bank.
I was wondering if you could just quickly is the second half pricing on CSD already in place nationally? And then Larry for the second half of that pricing it looks like you're staying pretty flexible on the promotional reinvestment.
But if passing the pricing through proves more challenging than you're expecting I guess philosophically which way will you lean in terms of pricing versus growing your volume and your market share objectives? Well that's -- you have to look at the total mix whenever you make those type of decisions.
Everything we're seeing right now tells us that our strategy is right on.
The pricing that we've got put out for the summer we haven't had that much pushback from our customers.
I think a lot of that is due to the promotional activity we're putting out there that's besides price off.
But we have absolutely no intention of backing away from our pricing.
I think we've got to get our pricing at the right levels with the input costs we have.
And then it just makes it that much more solid for us in 2012.
Okay.
And then on brand Dr Pepper across the 3 bottling systems is there any meaningful difference in volume performance? Very similar.
Very similar especially lapping the activity that was last year.
Okay.
And then lastly the company stayed very disciplined with an organic strategy.
But when you look at the growth in categories that you're not in like vitamin waters and sports and energy how do you think about the possibility of participating there versus the cost of getting in those categories? Or is that a priority at all right now? Like I said before we've got such a runway with the brands we have right now a long runway ahead of us.
We're going to stay focused there.
We never stop looking at them.
But one of the key points of our strategy is that we pursue profitable volume channels and categories.
And so as I look at all of them you take some categories that are growing tremendously right now you got to look and say is there profit there also? Is it kind of volume that's sustainable? So we want to stay very focused on what we have right now.
We constantly look at others.
We do a lot of things with some allied brands that we distribute so that we can see where the growths are.
And we have a lot of different categories that we use up and down the street because it's profitable in those channels.
And your final question comes from Steve Powers with Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to go back to the comments you made around the dynamics for the laps you keep full year EPS guidance despite the higher inflation you're dealing with the weaker volumes and now the incremental marketing.
You mentioned obviously the incremental pricing you've been able to take but that doesn't seem like it's enough.
So I'm wondering just how much productivity has helped you.
Is there a way you could quantify that? Obviously you got a formal productivity office initiatives you got the RCI.
And then the cumulative effect of those you can quantify that.
And also maybe help us how much is kind of structural savings versus things you're maybe doing to get yourself through this year that may have to come back for the business on an ongoing basis? Okay Steve look I'll get a little more granular with you okay.
You talk about manufacturing productivity.
Probably in this quarter I'm going to guess in terms of margin we probably picked up I don't know maybe 50 basis points of overall productivity.
Some of that we would have done without RCI.
Some of it includes RCI.
Obviously we expect that to improve.
You were on the project.
I think you know there's some trajectory here.
And so we know we've got some benefits coming in there.
That helps us continue to stay within our range of guidance.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Any sense for just how -- to go back to your bullish tone earlier on the call Marty how much ahead of your run rate is I mean 50 basis points it's good.
But what were you expecting and any sense for how big it can get over time? I read your report.
You're even more bullish than I am.
Look I'd say this a lot.
I don't think we really know completely.
And that I think it's the beauty of -- and everybody I encountered on this journey myself has always done better than they originally thought.
And my comments today simply go to we set a goal we put a financial goal out there over a long-enough period to allow us to really get ingrained in this.
And I've only been looking at results now for 6 months even a little less than 6 months I think in terms of when we really got started in the first quarter.
And what I see so far tells me we're getting more done sooner and that's what makes me bullish.
Nothing we're doing is short-term believe me.
We're not interested in that.
We're not interested in doing things short-term for the next 3 months or the quarter.
We truthfully we don't worry about that.
There's no reason for us to worry about that get too focused with that.
What we're doing is making changes that have to be sustainable which is why as I said in my remarks the RCI team right now is going back double-backing everything we've done.
Are the changes sustainable? Are the processes documented? Do people know what they're doing? Are they working as we in fact architected them to work during the Kaizen? It's very very very important.
Otherwise none of this stuff will sustain itself.
And that's critical.
So we probably have some upside in our numbers balance of the year that help maybe close the gap on some of your math.
Okay.
Well I want to thank everybody for joining us on the call today.
And for your continued interest in the Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relations.
Carolyn you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Carolyn and good morning everyone.
Let me start by saying how pleased I am by our performance and accomplishments this quarter notwithstanding the challenging economic environment and continued input cost inflation.
The combination of price mix and productivity is allowing us to partially offset these cost increases while still providing value to our consumers and our retail partners.
For the quarter bottler case sales were down 1% lapping 2% growth in the prior year.
We once again posted industry-leading growth in CSDs with volume flat in the quarter.
Year-to-date bottler case sales were flat in line with our expectations given the higher-than-normal levels of pricing.
Dr Pepper volume was flat in the quarter lapping 2% growth last year.
Dr Pepper Fountain volume grew 4% on new distribution gains and Dr Pepper TEN added almost 1 million cases.
Combined our Core 4 Sun Drop and Crush brands were flat.
Canada Dry continued its trend of double-digit growth while Sun Drop added 2 million incremental cases on continued distribution gains.
Snapple was up 2% lapping 10% growth in the prior year with continued distribution gains in both 6-pack glass and 64-ounce PET.
Our juice portfolio experienced larger relative price increases particularly Mott's as the price of apple juice concentrate doubled this year.
With mid-single-digit pricing Hawaiian Punch volume was down 10% while Mott's declined 6% on double-digit pricing.
Net sales for both brands increased in the quarter with Mott's up 4%.
Hawaiian Punch net sales increased 5% from the combination of pricing and increased single-serve package mix.
While raising prices of these rates is never desirable these results are consistent with our goal of achieving profitable volume growth.
For the quarter currency neutral net sales grew 4%.
Price mix added 3 points to growth while deferred revenue recognition and repatriated cases under the Coke licensing agreement added a point to growth.
Segment operating profit on a currency-neutral basis increased 7% or $21 million.
Included in last year's results were $15 million of strike-related costs.
Sales improvements the benefit of price increases and productivity improvement from RCI were able to significantly offset the headwinds of cost inflation which was almost $60 million in the quarter.
Marketing investments in the quarter were lower than a year ago but are up $13 million year-to-date.
We expect further increases in the fourth quarter to support Dr Pepper TEN 7UP and other initiatives resulting in full-year marketing of $20 million to $25 million.
For the quarter diluted earnings per share grew 18% to $0.71.
Now moving on to innovation.
I'm thrilled with the level of excitement and energy the national launch of Dr Pepper TEN is bringing to the Dr Pepper trademark.
As I mentioned earlier Dr Pepper TEN BCS volume was almost 1 million cases with concentrate volume higher as our bottling partners built their inventories.
And this was ahead of the national media launch.
Our tongue-in-cheek It's Not for Women media campaign is generating huge press coverage online buzz and social activity with over 136 million impressions to date.
We're seeing strong engagement with our target consumer 25 to 34-year-old males with 4x the average number of posts and comments on Facebook and Twitter.
We're also leveraging our great association with college football to drive huge consumer awareness and trial behind this great new product as well as the entire Dr Pepper trademark.
Looking ahead let me highlight some of our fourth quarter 2011 and trimester 1 2012 innovation and activation plans that will continue to increase awareness and relevance of our brands.
In the fourth quarter we'll drive strong bottler and retail momentum behind 7UP with our new Be 7UP advertising campaign featuring popular singer songwriter and current judge on the hit series The Voice Cee Lo Green.
7UP and the Hispanic Core 4 are partnering with crossover artist Carlos Santana and sponsoring the Latin Grammys the #1-rated Hispanic award show of the year.
Consumers will have a chance to win a VIP party with Santana and tickets to the awards show in Las Vegas.
Local activation will include Latin Grammy street parties and acoustic sessions in 5 markets.
We'll spread holiday cheer with limited time offers 7UP Mixed Berry Antioxidant Canada Dry cranberry and Schweppes black cherry and we'll provide consumers with party solutions with our combined CSD and mixer programs in select retailers.
Moving to Snapple.
We've partnered with a Grammy award-winning band Maroon 5 to bring consumers  'Tea Will Be Loved'.
This limited time flavor is available on shelves now and supports the charity Feeding America.
And as part of this collaboration Snapple and Maroon 5 are donating almost 2 million meals to help fight hunger.
Half and Half is the second fastest growing tea segment and consumers want a diet offering.
So we're introducing diet Snapple Half and Half lemonade iced tea with natural flavors and only 5 calories.
This great tasting tea will be available later this year with media and programming beginning in January 2012.
And we'll keep the energy behind Dr Pepper TEN going in the first quarter as we partner with one of country music's hottest artists Blake Shelton to lead the manliest ACMAs ever.
With that let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through our results and the 2011 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
Before I cover corporate items and our guidance I want to be sure that everyone understands the impact that cost inflation and volatility in certain commodity prices had on our third quarter results as reflected in our gross margins which were 280 basis points lower this year.
First higher overall input cost inflation increased cost of goods sold by almost $60 million and reduced the year-over-year gross margin by 370 basis points.
Next this higher inflation also required us to record a $4 million LIFO inventory charge as this method of accounting currently expenses these costs instead of capturing them in the inventory.
This drove a further reduction in the gross margin comparison of 20 basis point as there was no LIFO reserve addition last year in the quarter.
And finally the reduction in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter caused us to record $11 million of unrealized mark-to-market losses on commodity hedges $9 million of which is in cost of goods sold and the rest is in SG&amp;A.
This reduction in COGS compares to a $4 million unrealized mark-to-market gain last year resulting in a further gross margin reduction of 80 basis points.
These items all taken together reduced year-over-year gross margins by 470 basis points.
Just a reminder that these unrealized mark-to-market losses on commodity derivatives are included in corporate expenses and will be included in segment results when the contract settles.
Now moving to below the line items.
Corporate costs were $82 million for the quarter compared to $63 million last year.
Without mark-to-market impacts in both years corporate costs were $71 million compared to $67 million last year.
We expect the corporate costs in the fourth quarter including unrealized mark-to-market impacts to be around $75 million.
Net interest expense was $29 million $2 million below last year and a good run rate for the fourth quarter.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 34.7% and included $5 million of Pepsi and Coke transaction-related tax benefits.
This was about 130 basis points lower than our Q3 expectations due primarily to certain higher tax credits that result from lower levels of capital spending.
Moving on to cash flow.
Year-to-date cash from operating activities was $580 million including $43 million of cash taxes paid on the Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements.
Remember that the largest portion of taxes on these transactions $535 million will be paid in the first quarter of 2012.
Capital spending was $148 million compared to $170 million last year.
This brings free cash flow adjusted for the Pepsi and Coke taxes to $475 million as compared to net income of $440 million.
We continue to focus on working capital and CapEx management and our cash conversion cycle has been improved by 6 days well ahead of our goal of a 3-day improvement.
Through September of this year total distributions to our shareholders were $608 million $425 million in share repurchases and $183 million in dividends.
For the year we continue to expect net sales to grow in the 3% to 5% range.
Our guidance assumes balance of the year pricing in the 3% range with full year volume flat.
Also included in our net sales guidance is about 2 points of benefit from the Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements and foreign exchange.
Full-year earnings per share are still expected to be in the $2.70 to $2.78 range.
With continued volatility in the commodity markets and the forward prices for our unhedged positions we now expect packaging and ingredients to increase total cost of goods at the top end of our 7% to 9% range on a constant volume mix basis.
We continue to expect transportation cost included in SG&amp;A to be up about $35 million.
As Larry mentioned we now expect marketing investments to be up $20 million to $25 million for the year to support key innovation planks and to remind consumers of the value of our brand.
This is particularly important given rising prices and increased consumer purchasing pressure.
As a reminder year-to-date marketing investments through the third quarter were up $13 million.
Our EPS guidance also assumes a full-year tax rate of approximately 35% which includes an $18 million one-time benefit related to the Pepsi and Coke transactions.
In terms of cash flow capital spending is now projected to be approximately 4% of net sales as RCI is beginning to provide improved capital productivity.
Finally we remain on track to repurchase approximately $500 million of our common stock in 2011 subject to market conditions.
We continue to make excellent progress behind our developing rapid continuous improvement capabilities.
We're eliminating ways in all aspects of the business in the selling process in marketing in promotional execution in delivery in manufacturing and in back-office functions.
We are now focused on implementing visual management tools to ensure alignment of improvement goals within every team throughout the organization.
We're also replicating achievements across different locations and ensuring consistency of process.
With the strong senior leadership engagement and cross-functional team participation we're well ahead of the internal targets we set for ourselves.
In fact across our entire system we've increased selling time increased our speed to market in cold drink placements and in innovation taken 6 days sales out of inventories closed 7 warehouses and significantly reduced space in 2 more and improved our cash flow through capital avoidance.
With these early successes we believe we're well on our way to achieving at least $150 million of cash productivity benefits through 2013.
With that let me turn the call back to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
Our teams remain committed to executing our focused strategy.
We're building per-capita consumption and gaining distribution in core packages with 23 cold drink placements -- 22 000 cold drink placements and 23 000 new fountain valves year-to-date.
We're driving priority brand execution in the cola system with tie-in rates up double-digit.
We're turning around our business in Mexico and seeing margin trend improvement.
And we continue to deliver above-category trends in CSDs teas and shelf-stable juices.
We're committed to always delivering value to our customers and ensuring we're investing wisely in this business for long-term sustainable growth.
We're winning with RCI with increasing levels of activity and engagement and delivering cash productivity savings.
And finally we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders with a view of providing very attractive shareholder returns.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty I'm having a little bit of trouble just reconciling fourth quarter based on your full-year guidance.
Your net sales growth guidance of 3% to 5% for the full year implies that Q4 if you take the mid-point of that maybe flattish to up slightly in terms of sales.
So I'm just wondering is there any reason to think that the sales will be much weaker in fourth quarter? And then on the other hand if I try to look at your earnings guidance it actually implies a pretty nice pickup in terms of growth.
So I'm just trying to reconcile your sales guidance and then just taking down to earnings guidance what it implies for Q4.
Well I won't comment specifically on an earnings number for Q4.
But again as I said in my prepared remarks full year up 3% to 5%.
We've not been more specific in terms of the sales range.
We did say volume flat pricing up 3%.
You'll need -- everybody needs to be careful on cost of goods.
As I've said we're now going to be at the upper-end of that year-over-year increase in cost.
You do the math in Q3 it was about 9%.
It was actually greater in Q2 almost 11% which we thought back then would happen.
So you need to factor in that full increase in your Q4 models.
Not sure what else I can really help you with to get you to your number.
Those are I think are the key factors that should drive your models.
Research Division</strong> Are there anything below the line that's going to give you more of an benefit in Q4? Taxes again you'll need to take the full-year tax rate back up to 35%.
As I've said interest expense run rate this quarter pretty good for next quarter and marketing.
Now also remember marketing now down this quarter will be up from 13 to some number that puts us in the $20 million to $25 million range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Larry just in terms of what you're seeing as it relates to elasticity from the price increases that you're taking maybe you can help us understand the trends that you're seeing maybe comparing CSD versus non-carbs? Yes.
I'll start with the non-carbs.
Like I said I mean we haven't seen when we took such large increases on juices especially with apple juice concentrate doubling.
But it's starting to kind of level-off.
The volume has been hit.
But if you notice whenever I mention in my prepared remarks that our net sales were up so we're getting it in the right position.
On CSDs for the third quarter we were still lapping in the beginning of third quarter so very aggressive pricing on CSDs.
So there's a large difference between where we were back at $5 in July.
And looking at a 24-pack now probably more an average of $7 somewhere in that timeframe.
We're seeing the consumer looking at different packages.
We're doing much more with our PET doing different things with 12 pack 18 packs 20 packs 0.5-liter PET.
So we're trying to get where the big price difference doesn't just stand out as much and it looks like it's really starting to work for us.
So we're encouraged by that.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I guess just on housekeeping I apologize if I missed it.
But I think taxes came in Marty about 100 basis points.
I think more than 100 basis points lower in the quarter than you guided to last quarter.
And it sounds like advertising's a little bit down.
It's supposed to be up and has been reduced for the full year in terms of the -- your increase.
What were the drivers there of those changes? Steve I'm sorry the first part of your question go to CapEx? LLC.
Research Division</strong> No I'm sorry taxes.
I think taxes you got -- implied kind of 36% tax rate in Q3 or came in below 35%? Yes.
As I've said in my prepared remarks believe it or not the benefit actually comes from lower capital spending due to a certain tax credit we get on domestic manufacturing profits that's higher the higher the profits are and therefore the less depreciation you have in that tax calculation which is driven by capital spending and particularly now with bonus depreciation in place actually benefits that tax credit.
So spending less capital raises that certain tax credit.
And as you saw in our financials we've spent less capital.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And on the advertising? On the marketing spend as we said we're down.
And most of that's due to timing so that we're sure we're all lining our pull activities with our execution and activations in the field.
That's the real reason we've not really postponed or canceled any marketing plans.
And I think everybody on this call knows that we've pulled back a little bit.
Going into this year we spent -- we increased marketing $85 million.
$85 million.
Two years ago when we began focusing on building our brands and when you factor in this year's full-year increase it's going to be over $100 million which for a company our size is not such a small increase.
I think another thing too Steve you've heard us talk about how we've really went in and started looking at our return on margin investment.
We went to a lot more local instead of so much national.
It's given us more flexibility where we're not having to lock through the year.
We can be nimble with it we can move it.
And we're really getting in where we can tie it regionally to the activation in the customer for the consumer.
So that's probably the biggest driver I would look at.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If you look -- I mean given that your competitors are signaling some pretty significant step-ups in U.S.
marketing events since next year how much is tied to just wait and seeing what develops? And I know it's early stages but how are you thinking about marketing plans for next year in that context? I mean should we expect...
Yes we're in the process right now of putting those together.
And like we've said since we went public we will spend on our brands.
We will build and enhance our leading brands.
I keep hearing that there's going to be more spending.
That excites me.
I mean it's great for our category.
We'll get more activity out there as the tide rises all the ships rise with it.
So it's not something that really has a concern for us.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a similar kind of step-up again next year wouldn't -- we shouldn't be surprised by that? We're just going to look at it right now.
It depends on how our programs go together.
What we want to do is get more for the buck more bang for the buck there.
That's why we're doing the marketing return on investment.
But we will say we will do what we need to do out there in 2012.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on -- going back to pricing in packaged beverages your release implies that this kind of 5% sales growth was driven mainly by pricing.
But you've factored in 4 points of volume growth another point from FX.
It appears really there wasn't much prices.
Is it what I've seen there just -- but materially positive rate offset by a materially negative mix? Steve this is Marty.
I don't think so.
I mean with -- they had that level of pricing in the packaged beverage segment.
So I'm not sure the numbers you're referring to.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
More generally then I'm just looking at the net sales up 5 sales volume up 4.
All right and you've got the impact.
So remember packaged beverages has pricing.
They also have the affect of the repatriated brands that came from the Coke system because those are now DSD cases with a higher net sales value.
So on a dollar basis that's also driving part of the increase.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Still I'll follow-up.
I'll follow -- I'm still not getting the math there but -- okay and I guess just lastly on packaged beverages is there -- it seems that I got caught off-guard a bit by Snapple decelerating from the growth rate we saw in Q2 Q3.
You talked about gaining distribution -- there's been a distribution on that brand.
But any sense for what -- and the comp was slightly higher but the deceleration was pretty material.
Is sell-through just slowing that much? We're very pleased because it's lapping 10% last year in the third quarter.
And like I said in my prepared remarks we've got more products coming out right now with the cherry tea and also with our Half and Half coming out.
So the plans we have in place for Snapple we were not concerned at all with our Q3 being 2%.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Yes wanted to follow up on the marketing side.
And in terms of looking at the change in timing here how much of that is simply sort of -- going back to Steve's question looking at sort of the underlying category growth rate what have you because it seems now as though you're potentially losing share in CSDs which hadn't been the case before.
And can you talk a little bit about sort of with this change in spending for this year do we want to plow some of that forward into next year? So I guess the question is is it sort of a change and now we're working off a lower base? Or is it again just sort of pushing this into the next couple of quarters seeing how pricing is going and how the competitive environment goes? Again I understand you guys are up nicely over where you were 2 years ago but the market share dynamics seem to be a little bit different now.
It's Marty.
Let me take part and Larry may or may not add to that.
I mean first so what you've touched in your shared comments if we look at what the company's reported this quarter with us being flat in CSDs and everybody else being down it looks like we still performed relatively well.
I continue to remind everybody that when it comes to marketing spend we've got a big internal effort and have had a big internal effort on the quality or the ROI from that spend.
And that as I've said previously to a number of you has allowed us to reallocate marketing and actually look at some of the spendings that has not been so effective converting a lot of national spend to local spend which is more -- which is cheaper just costs less.
And so I want to continue to remind everybody that when we think about spending increases and whether or not that does or does not add or subtract from growth and share gain implicit in that is that somehow all the base spend is effective or directed properly.
And I think we've discovered that we've had a chance internally to reallocate money to more effective programs.
And we look at them all very closely John.
I think what I give you an example of before was we've not had any spend on A&amp;W for a lot of years.
We've put money behind A&amp;W and it performed just the same as it did before.
So we can look at that and say "That money is better spent somewhere else." So we do that on a -- well actually on a weekly basis looking where it's at.
And Marty meets with the marketing team once a month basically saying "We know what worked what didn't".
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at the raw materials guidance out for the fourth quarter and I guess as we look at this it's sort of tough to plan for the mark-to-market stuff.
In your guidance for the fourth quarter is there any sort of mark-to-market impact there? And do you have any advice in terms of how we should sort of model that out? Because most other companies actually end up excluding a lot of the mark-to-market things that you guys actually included in this quarter.
John it's Marty.
If I could help you model it I'd probably be a commodities trader.
Needless to say yes we do include it in our full results.
Right now our guidance has no impact.
I did look yesterday I think we were to mark-to-market as of yesterday we had maybe have a couple million dollar positive impact but that's as of yesterday.
So right now our guidance assumes that number.
There's no mark-to-market in the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi.
Research Division</strong> My first question just following up on John's question on the I think gross margin in the fourth quarter.
Is it fair to say with the benefits of pricing now all having flown through the GAAP or the delta in the gross margin the gross margin pressure in the fourth quarter should be sequentially less than we saw in the third quarter? It might be -- on a percentage basis it might be a little.
It will be a little less if you do the math.
So you need to model that.
And the other thing I would tell you is as I've said we are on the LIFO inventory method and I said we recorded $4 million this quarter.
And there could be a similar adjustment for addition to the LIFO reserve next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay because as we look at the guidance or the implied guidance if you will for the fourth quarter specifically there is a big range there on an $0.08 range.
And I'm trying to figure out kind of what the variables are.
It sounds like you've really drilled-in on the cost.
You've got your pricing in and I'm trying to figure out what the variables are that might through the quarter lead you took to come in at the high-end versus the low-end.
Is it really all about how Dr Pepper TEN does in the marketplace? Is about the competitive environment? Can you give us any direction there? Well yes.
I mean I think the uncertainty always will be top line related for the most part what happens to volume particularly or the price volume trade-off behavior of the consumer.
And our commodity costs are fairly well known now through the balance of this year.
And obviously SG&amp;A plus -- or again marketing going up shouldn't surprise anybody so -- but there are a lot of variables that affect that top line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is on Sun Drop.
Kind of I know you talked about the continued distribution gains here in the third quarter but where are we sort of inning wise? Are we towards the end of your distribution potential for that brand? And how is that trending sort of market share wise relative to your going in expectations? Yes.
No we're not -- we're just really getting started.
I mean right now on grocery our ACV is about 92% and on convenience 56%.
Like we've said before when we put this program together it's a 3-year initial that we locked-in solid.
So I would -- and then at the end of 3 we're not stopping there.
We're very happy with what we're seeing it do.
We've got some markets that are just really performing well.
So if I was looking at innings I'd say we're probably at the top of the third.
Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask about Dr Pepper TEN a little bit.
Like TEN Crush and Sun Drop we knew that they were highly incremental to your portfolio.
Dr Pepper TEN could be more cannibalistic than the others.
Could you give us some context on what you saw on some of your test markets before deciding to roll out nationally? And then what you're seeing now after rolling it out? Yes it's still very early from the national rollout.
We launched it 10/10 where we're really saying that's the date to go.
But our results from the test market and I think this is why a lot of our partners wanted us to move this thing forward from 2012 was that in those test markets and they were very diverse and trying to get in the high per cap low per cap and medium per cap.
Where we had Dr Pepper TEN we showed growth in Pepper and Diet Pepper.
And I mean those are the most encouraging numbers you'll ever look at.
Now as I've said we're very pleased with what we're seeing going forward since 10/10.
Not enough data to really lay it out complete.
But we'll probably have a little bit of an idea in a couple of weeks after we get October kind of closed up.
But everything we're seeing everything we're hearing not only from bottling partners but customers and consumers they are thrilled to death with it.
We're bringing people into the Dr Pepper trademark that had left for whether it's non-carbs whatever.
They're coming back in because of the great taste the bold taste and the 10 calories.
Research Division</strong> And to make sure I understand what you said in those test markets where Dr Pepper TEN existed Dr Pepper Regular also accelerated? Is that what you said? Yes.
That's accurate.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And second question just on capitalization for the last couple of years you've repatriated some brands you've -- there's been some RCI initiatives.
You've launched some new brands.
Where are you on capitalization? How do you feel about it? And then should we get a return to volume growth how should we be thinking about the price volume dynamic on profit? What was the first part of that question? This is Marty.
Research Division</strong> On capitalization.
You're talking about capital? Research Division</strong> Capacity.
Capacity.
Oh capacity.
There is no real issues in capacity.
In fact it's possible over time we will add lines.
But what RCI is doing for us it's freeing up a lot of space more that's in our plans.
And so I would not expect any real significant capital spending to support volume growth.
Right.
And we're getting to where not only will there be inventories but a lot of ours had been on the changeovers.
That's what's bringing down the inventories.
We don't have to run as long runs and also makes the productivity efficiency and the capacity greater on that line.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Cooper with Consumer Edge.
LLC</strong> Just wanting to the get an update on -- your fountain volumes were 4 and you're obviously adding valves.
And when you look at 2012 are you still adding fountain valves at McDonald's from that agreement or has that ended at this point? No those are already completed at the end of last year.
But our team like I said we've hit an incremental order this year I think 23 000 valves.
And we keep very aggressive targets every year on these and the guys just continue to close them.
So we're very pleased with that.
Plus we're seeing in the -- for those fountain traffic it's up mainly driven by QSR which is a very very positive for us telling us that the consumer is -- traffic's a little better spend's a little better.
But yes we will continue that momentum through 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Larry on -- I was hoping we could step back.
It's really a follow-on I guess to John's question and trying to get a state of the union on the carbonated portfolio.
Because while it continues to do better than the category overall the relative performance has really not been as good as it was last year and in the prior year.
So could you talk a little bit more about where you think the portfolio stands? And then I had a couple of follow-ups specifically on Crush and the core Dr Pepper trademark.
We're very pleased with how the portfolio stands right now.
If you kind of go down through it I mean with what we've been able to repatriate we're getting those in place.
You see the numbers that we're getting on our Canada Dry brand out there and it continues to grow double-digit.
We've got basically with the introduction of Crush Sunkist took a little bit of a hit.
But we're starting to see Sunkist improve with some great plans for 2012.
You heard me talk about what we're doing with 7UP in Q4 with Cee Lo Green.
We're very pleased with we're seeing right now and also what we have planned for 2012.
We'll never say that it's not tough out there right now.
I mean it's a tough economic environment.
But I think we're doing all the right things and we got the right things in place to go forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then as we think about Crush specifically can you talk about the path to seeing that brand stabilize on a sequential basis? Year-on-year it's declining.
But as you think about getting that sequential stability where do you think that -- when you think that might happen and what do you think is involved in achieving that? Well I think -- I think we will see it a lot more stable in 2012 across the entire flavored category there.
What I'd mentioned about what we're doing with Sunkist Crush had 2 fantastic years lapping some very very big numbers.
We have no issues.
We're very pleased with what our partners are doing out there with Crush and the plans for next year.
And like I mentioned a while ago is kind of the tides come up everybody rises with it.
The ads has does not a lot Crush Sunkist.
So I think actually when you look at the flavored category we were accelerating it and that's 55% of the category.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then finally on the brands here Dr Pepper improved even if you back out the benefit of Dr Pepper TEN late in the quarter it did improve sequentially.
Can you talk a little bit more about that improvement the role of Fountain whether it actually returned to a positive number in the state of Texas? Trying to get a better feel for what's going on excluding the DP TEN.
I think the biggest component you would look at there Mark is what we're doing with our strategy of increasing per caps.
Where we went out and we identified each location we're going to go -- going away from national marketing to local marketing getting the cold drink equipment and getting the fountain equipment in.
So our low-per-cap markets are doing very well.
As I mentioned a moment ago we still had some tough numbers to lap in Q3 from July some very low pricing.
And so we're looking at it right now saying we're pleased with the performance of Dr Pepper and very encouraged with what Dr Pepper TEN will do for us going forward.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And Texas specifically sequentially how's the brand doing? Texas is still a little soft but I mean that's our biggest market.
Had some of the hottest pricing.
I mean there were some 388 numbers down here last year.
So that was pretty aggressive.
But what we're seeing going forward we're very pleased with.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then finally Marty just housekeeping here.
That $20 million to $25 million increase in marketing spend for the year can you give us the year-to-date number? Is it somewhere in the kind of 5-to-10 range? In terms of percentage increase? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No you're saying -- I think you're saying $20 million to $25 million increase in marketing spend for the year.
For the year correct with $13 million of that increase already year-to-date.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> This is Michael Lavery for Carolyn.
You said that the contract volume was up double digits in the quarter.
Is that likely to keep up? And what did that add about a point to total volume growth? No so the contract business which was up and on a revenue basis in the P&amp;T segment about 2 points.
We would not expect that to continue.
And as we've said before that business while helping us with the sales volume really drops no real significant profitability to us.
It is more operating efficiencies capacity.
Research Division</strong> So are you moving away from it? Is the something that might decline or would it..
No we readjusted it a couple of years ago kind of finished it up last year and made sure we had the right ones in there and -- but it's a small percentage of our total volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on Sun Drop it looks like that added maybe about 0.5 point to total volume.
How does that compare to your expectations for the run rate on that? Well I don't know the exact number it added.
But it's right on track where we want it to be.
I mean we're very very pleased with it.
Research Division</strong> And when you had given the ACV for that brand are those numbers -- I mean 92% in groceries is obviously fairly high.
How much upside do you see from that and where is this now? Say what now? Research Division</strong> For the 92% in grocery ACV I mean how much higher can that go? Well we're happy with the 92%.
Our focus is going to be on convenience and gas up and down the street.
You've heard me say before I want it  -- we're doing all this spend on the marketing.
We got it top of mind.
I want to have it close at hand.
So when people are at work play and dining they can buy one and when they go to the supermarket they've got one on their way for them.
Research Division</strong> Okay sounds good.
And then just lastly on pricing I think this maybe is following up on Steve's question a little bit.
I just want to understand in packed beverages it looks like you've got the 4 points of volume growth and then the repatriation adds even more to that and a little bit from currency.
So it does look like it implies price mix is negative.
But what are the things that would make that -- it sounds like you're getting the pricing so is mix that big of a hit or is there a contract volume part of that? Let's do this on a revenue basis okay? Three points pricing 2 points the contract business the repatriated brands probably 0.5 point after 1 in terms of how you round it okay? And that should account -- that's 5.5% to 6% so a little decline a little bit of a decline in all other business.
Research Division</strong> So the volume number that you gave the 4% includes the contract and the repatriation impact? All volumes and all the percentage I just gave you on a revenue basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays Capital.
Just wanted to confirm that you still intended to refinance the upcoming $400 million maturity that comes due in December.
And also as you sort of think about managing your maturity profile and your average duration do you look to do something sort of in the shorter to intermediate term in terms of issuance or potentially longer term? The answer is yes.
We are working on that refinancing right now.
We fully intend to refinance that $400 million.
I cannot disclose at this point the tenor that we're thinking about in terms of duration.
I just can't talk about that at this point.
That's helpful.
But just broadly speaking how do you sort of view managing the maturity profile overall? We try to blend that.
Maturity profile is driven by a couple of things.
First of all eliminating any refinancing risks thereby by not having too much debt coming due in any one window or short window which is why we did the tender last year started to take down that big 1.2 billion trunks that we had.
I think you probably expect there's no reason for us to go out very long on the curve.
We have some 2038s out there that were placed by Cadbury when they spun us.
Unlikely we're going to do anything like that and again a part of that is swap to float.
So the all-in rate on that is not too great.
So I think you can sort of think about what I would characterize as medium term.
Your next question comes from the line of Carlos LaBoy with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Larry on Mexico why not generate cash from the sale of an underperforming and sub-skill business here? And if the decision is to keep it for the long-haul what can you tell us about the plan that maybe gets these trends in volume and revenues reversed? Well as you can see Carlos I mean our Mexico businesses continues to get stronger.
We're very encouraged with what we're seeing down there.
When you look at the -- you hear Marty and I talk about RCI.
Mexico is -- I was starting to say probably not probably they are leading our organization in Kaizens and projects and productivity improvements.
We look at it every day.
I mean we're very encouraged with it.
We're encouraged with our team.
We see a lot of opportunities.
We've got growth in all of our brands down there our scores' up almost 8% Tennessee Elsa up 4% Clamato is up 25%.
I think we're just kind of at the beginning of what we can really do.
I've not really had anybody come in and want to buy it or do anything.
So otherwise I have to look at it if they did.
But also as you can tell we probably don't need a whole lot of extra cash.
Research Division</strong> That business is not losing share of volumes and share of revenues? No.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Larry I wanted to follow-up on Dr Pepper TEN given your enthusiasm there.
What percent of Dr Pepper volume did the brand reach in your test markets? And is that a reasonable proxy for the total U.S.
with the full national rollout? Yes it's kind of what we use as a benchmark.
Our test markets were just I think a little bit about 5% of total trademark.
And that's very encouraging whenever you test market to the regular and diet group.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the brand obviously garners very strong trial in the test markets.
Can you discuss or give us some quantification the repeat rates on the brand? Right.
We're doing the same trial in the other markets.
That's why we ran the test markets was to get the findings on how to go out.
And what we're seeing on repeat.
I mean it's just very very encouraging.
It's tongue-in-cheek when we say it's just for men and 10 bold manly calories.
We're seeing across the board people excited about the brand buying the brand consuming the brand.
And I think we've just kind of scratched the surface of where this can go because moms are even picking it up for children to put back in the home because there's only 10 calories there when there were not carbonated softdrinks there before.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Marty I know you don't want to give specific guidance for next year.
But can you at least discuss conceptually the level of commodity cost pressure you expect in 2012 relative to 2011? Is it a significant drop-off from the high single-digit rate of increase we saw this year? Are you still expecting significant pressure next year? Let me -- I'll give you the color that I think I can give you.
It's not going to prove any specific numbers for next year.
Okay so this year it's 9%.
And I think everybody knows that we manage our hedging program within certain minimum maximums by commodity.
So that says we are not nor do we have our intent to be fully hedged 9 or 12 months out.
That's not the way we view the world.
What I would tell you is that right now our first quarter I would call reasonably covered.
You can interpret that as more than 50% for key commodities a little less than Q2 and lesser amounts in Q3 and Q4.
I can tell you that much of that cover for the important commodities.
For us that's aluminum and corn.
PET rounds out the big 3.
I would say much of that cover was put on more recently.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then can you talk about the pace of share repurchases as we move throughout 2012? And you've got the refinancing here short-term as well as some of the cash taxes under the bottling deals.
So I just wanted to get an update on what kind of pace we should expect in terms of repurchases.
The tax payment in the first quarter will have no impact on next year's pace because in our guidance this year of $500 million and with the refinancing of the debt in the fourth quarter we end the year with more than enough cash to make that payment.
So in essence it's coming out of this year's cash flow.
So when you put that aside what it will be is a function of how you view the free cash flow generation number for next year and subtract out our dividends and the balance we would expect to deploy to our share repurchase program.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Farmer with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I only have one question at this point and just wanted to come back to Dr Pepper TEN.
Do you see any other low-calorie or no-calorie brand extension opportunities for the portfolio? So essentially anything else out there in the pipeline that you can give us some color on? Yes we're going to -- we're constantly looking at that.
Our R&amp;D team is always seeing what they can come up with that's better for you and with the great taste of all of our brands.
We want to stay very focused on Dr Pepper TEN right now.
So that gives them time to look at the learnings from it.
I wouldn't -- I don't think there's anything immediately in the pipeline that can be because it's a great platform.
But we want to make sure that we do Dr Pepper TEN right before we put another one out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And actually just a real quick follow-up.
This is already asked on Snapple in terms of the volume deceleration.
But if you look at the ACV for the 64-ounce bottle I think you had said in the last call it was in the high 30s.
Where does it stand now? And was that a contributor to the volume growth deceleration for Snapple? Absolutely.
It's up to 53%.
It's just been a home run for our Snapple team.
We're still out there.
We have plenty of runway left.
But also where we do have it we're seeing great repeat.
So it's a great package for us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just so nice distribution wins for the 64-ounce bottle going from high-30s to mid-50s.
That's a nice I guess tailwind from that perspective.
To get to plus 2% volume growth in aggregate what was the major headwinds that caused that then? What was the offset? Really no headwinds.
I mean if you look at the total PET category it was a little softer.
I think also we saw growth in our 6-pack.
So if you look at lapping that 10% from a year ago that was the biggest contributor right there.
Your final question comes from the line of Damian Witkowski with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Marty do you have the actual number of shares outstanding currently as of yesterday or today this year? Yes I believe it is 214.4 million.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on the marketing cost side year-over-year how much did you benefit in the third quarter dollar-wise? It was less than a year ago.
So I'm just wondering what the difference is.
At a year-over-year basis we were down about $13 million year-over-year in the quarter.
Inc.</strong> And then just in the third quarter? And you still think you're going to be up 25 20 to 25 for this year? Let me back up.
We were down $4 million in the third quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
You're up $13 million year-to-date.
And then Larry just a...
Did you say down $13 million? Inc.</strong> No up $13 million year-to-date.
Okay.
That's okay yes I apologize up $13 million down year-over-year in the quarter 4.
Inc.</strong> Larry on the consumer just the state of the consumer maybe by channel and geography it sounds like QSR was a nice benefit and the third quarter traffic was positive.
Are there any channels that are really doing worse than you expected maybe even 3 month ago as well as products? No I don't think worse than expected.
I mean we're seeing a little uptick in QSR in convenient and gas.
We've got some of the convenient gas guys.
They're very positive.
They'd like to see it stronger they like to see the construction back and everything.
But we're seeing off of a new base some growth some traffic increases some ticket range going up.
Some of them are even -- one of the larger changes adding several hundred stores.
So they wouldn't do that if they didn't feel good about it.
I think the biggest one is large format.
We're still through the year have been struggling with the large-format some of the pricing from a year ago with one of our largest retailers.
That's where the biggest sticker shock is whenever you look at going back a year ago and there were prices out there from $3.88 to $5.
Today they're $6.98 to $7.18.
It takes a little while for the consumer to get over that.
So that's why we've done so much more with $6.12 and $18 pack PET in the 0.5 liter 1 liter 1.5 liter 2 liter.
And it's helping us get through that tough spot right there.
Inc.</strong> And are you seeing any difference in execution blue versus red system? Nope 2 great executors.
That was our final question.
I'll turn the floor back over to you for closing remarks.
Thank you.
Well thank you so much for joining the call today and for your continued interest in Dr Pepper Snapple Group and go Rangers.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relations.
Carolyn you may begin.
Thank you Kelly and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Carolyn and good morning everyone.
Before I review our fourth quarter results and share our 2012 priorities I'd like to take a few minutes to recap a few of the great wins our team had in 2011.
2011 certainly poised significant challenges for our industry.
The macroeconomic environment remained weak as input cost inflation drove price increases across consumer staples further straining consumers' discretionary spending.
Despite these conditions our results proved resilient.
Once again showcasing the strength of our brands and the dedicated focus of our teams as they execute against our strategy.
We increased the distribution on availability of our core SKUs in both grocery and convenience with CSDs up 8 points in grocery and up 2 points in convenience where it's much harder to penetrate with limited space.
Snapple and Mott's also gained 2 points in grocery.
As part of our license agreement with Coke and Pepsi we repatriated approximately 15 million cases back into our company-owned distribution system and outperformed the internal targets we set for these brands.
As I've said many times the alignment of these brands in our system gives us leverage with retailers and allows us to run national programming in accounts where we were not able to do so previously.
We're excited about the opportunities that lie ahead for these brands.
We increased immediate consumption availability and drove sample indications with over 43 000 new fountain valves and 25 000 incremental cold drink placements.
Our Coke and Pepsi bottling partners continue to drive strong priority brand execution with display tie-in rates on regular Dr Pepper up close to 2% across both systems.
And with strong sponsorship from our executive leadership team rapid continuous improvement or RCI as we call it is gaining traction across the entire organization helping us drive significant value internally and with our customers.
We launched Sun Drop nationally and partnered with MTV to develop a compelling marketing campaign that speaks directly to the millennial consumer.
Our campaign featuring Maggie the Sun Drop girl attracted close to 9 million YouTube viewers in 2011.
Using breakthrough flavor and sweetener technology we introduced Dr Pepper TEN our product with the same taste and mouth feel as regular Dr Pepper but with only 10 calories per serving and our tongue in cheek "It's Not for Women" campaign generated over 230 million media impressions.
We delivered value and convenience to our consumers with new package offerings such as Snapple 64-ounce take home and Hawaiian Punch 10-ounce singles.
And while others pull back on their brand investments we continue to invest behind our brands engaging and connecting with our consumers to drive long-term growth all while returning almost $775 million to our shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends.
Now let's move on to results.
For the quarter bottler case sales declined 2% lapping 1% growth in the prior year on 4 points of pricing.
Dr Pepper grew 2% on the national launch of Dr Pepper TEN and continued growth in Fountain foodservice lapping 3% growth from the prior-year period.
Our core Fountain brands which are Core 4 plus Sun Drop declined by 4% and together with Crush the total decline was 6%.
Sun Drop added nearly 2 million incremental cases in the quarter and Canada Dry grew 6% on top of 8% growth in the prior year.
Both Hawaiian Punch and Mott's declined double digits on larger relative price increases that were implemented in the second half of the year.
Snapple grew 10% for the quarter and continued to outperform the industry proving that this brand is not slowing down.
For the year bottler case sales declined 1% on 3% pricing.
Dr Pepper grew 40 basis points as we lapped McDonald installs in the prior-year grew local Fountain availabilities and launched Dr Pepper TEN.
Combined our Core 5 [ph] and Crush brands declined 1%.
Sun Drop added 9 million incremental cases and Canada Dry posted double-digit growth for the second consecutive year.
Mott's and Hawaiian Punch declined single digits while Snapple grew 7% fueled by our new take home 64-ounce PET package and continued middle-of-the-country expansion.
On a currency neutral basis our net sales increased 4% for the quarter reflecting 4 points of pricing and 2 points from repatriated brands and flavor mix partially offset by lower volume.
Segment and operating profit increased 2% for the quarter with revenue growth partially offset by higher packaging and ingredient costs and the previously disclosed provision of the $18 million related to certain legal matters.
For the full year segment operating profit increased 1% as net sales growth of 4% was partially offset by higher packaging ingredients and transportation costs the legal provision and incremental costs associated with the repatriation of our brands.
As I mentioned earlier we have continued to invest behind our brands over the past several years and this year was no exception.
We increased our market investment by $15 million driving over $100 million of incremental investment behind our well-loved brands over the last 3 years.
EPS excluding certain items was $0.82 for the quarter and $2.79 for the full year.
A 16% increase over last year and a solid finish to a challenging year.
We are entering 2012 stronger than ever which gives me great confidence that we can continue to execute against our strategy and continue to deliver strong shareholder returns.
We will continue to build our brands with strong activation behind Dr Pepper TEN and Sun Drop as well as the rest of our core brands.
We remain committed to invest in our brands and we will leverage and refine our marketing return on investment disciplines to ensure we are getting the best return for every dollar we spend.
Growing per caps remains our single largest opportunity.
We will continue to expand the availability of our products and take home immediate consumption and Fountain with at least 25 000 incremental Fountain valves and 20 000 to 30 000 new cold drink machine placements.
We'll capitalize on our recent wins in local markets including our Snapple middle-of-the-country growth strategy and 14 Canada Dry expansion markets and apply those learnings to additional markets as we continue to focus on gaining distribution and availability in these key low per cap markets and we will continue to put strong focus on execution excellence.
While Marty will say that we are still in the early stages of the RCI journey I am thrilled with the level of execution and executive sponsorship and engagement that we have across the organization behind our developing capabilities.
We experienced great wins in 2011 but the runway is long and I'm confident with our great brands and RCI underpinning everything we do we will continue to drive value for our customers and consumers while improving productivity and returns.
You just heard me say that our 2012 plans were stronger than ever and our first trimester reflects just that.
We kicked off the new year with a focus on our diet portfolio reminding consumers that they don't need to sacrifice great taste for calories.
Dr Pepper is one-of-a-kind.
There is no other beverage like it and Dr Pepper's new always one-of-a-kind campaign celebrates the uniqueness of all Dr Pepper drinkers.
Blake Shelton one of country music's hottest artists will prove that Dr Pepper TEN is a guy's guy drink at 2012 ACMAs and we're giving our consumers a chance to see the performance live.
We're engaging the Hispanic consumer by partnering with Lucha Libre a popular wrestling association with a strong Mexican heritage to drive awareness and trial of Dr Pepper TEN.
Facebook has 160 million active monthly users in the United States and over half of them log in daily.
So we'll grab their attention with our Core 5 [ph] Facebook credits program [ph].
This program offers Facebook credits that can be redeemed for virtual goods on especially labeled Core 5 [ph] 20-ounce bottles.
Millennials have a passion for music so Sunkist and Sun Drop are partnering with the Billboard Music Awards to offer these consumers a chance to win a VIP trip package for 4 to the show in Las Vegas.
And we're not stopping there.
We know that flavored CSDs continue to grow now holding a 51.5% share of the category.
So we're launching Sunkist grape and Sunkist strawberry offering our consumers a variety of flavors to enjoy.
Half 'n Half is the second fastest growing segment in the tea category and there is no national diet offering.
So we launched Snapple Diet Half 'n Half lemonade iced tea with only 5 calories per serving and made from the best stuff on earth.
New Snapple Diet Half 'n Half will be supported with a new advertising campaign a national FSI and strong online and social media programming.
With plans as strong as these it should come as no surprise that our 2012 marketing expenses will be up approximately $10 million to $12 million in the first quarter.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through some of our below-the-line items and 2012 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
As I did last quarter before I cover corporate and other financial items I'd like to briefly outline the impact that both cost inflation and volatility in certain commodity prices had on our gross margins for the quarter.
Higher input costs increased cost of goods sold by approximately $50 million reducing gross margin by 360 basis points year-over-year.
This higher inflation also required us to record a $5 million LIFO inventory provision as compared to a $3 million provision in the prior year.
We also recorded $7 million of unrealized mark-to-market losses on commodity hedges in cost of goods driven by reductions in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter.
This compares to a $3 million unrealized mark-to-market gain last year.
As a reminder unrealized mark-to-market losses on commodity derivatives are included in corporate expenses and will be included in segment results when the contract settle.
All together these items reduced fourth quarter year-over-year gross margins by 440 basis points.
Positive pricing was the principal factor that allowed us to somewhat offset these headwinds and limit the gross margin decline to about 200 basis points.
Now moving to below-the-line items.
Corporate costs were $76 million for the quarter compared to $67 million last year.
Without mark-to-market impacts in both years and certain other onetime impacts in 2010 corporate costs were $69 million compared to $75 million last year.
Net interest expense was $28 million $5 million below last year.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 32.5% and included $5 million of Pepsi and Coke-related tax benefits.
This was a little better than our previously communicated fourth quarter expectation.
Moving on to cash flow.
For the year cash from operating activities was $760 million including $54 million of cash taxes paid on the Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements.
We also paid out $25 million in the fourth quarter to terminate an interest rate derivative used to hedge our fourth quarter debt refinancing.
As a reminder the largest portion of taxes on the Pepsi and Coke licensing deals will be paid in 2012 with approximately $508 million in the first quarter and $23 million in the second quarter.
For the year capital spending was $215 million down $31 million from last year and below our full year guidance partially due to timing but also reflecting some of the early benefits from RCI.
We remain very committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders as we further demonstrated that last week with our announcement of a 6.3% increase to our quarterly dividend rate.
In 2011 total distributions to our shareholders were $773 million; $522 million in share repurchases and $251 million in dividends.
As Larry said RCI is gaining traction across our entire organization.
We are extremely pleased with the progress we made in 2011 behind our developing RCI capabilities.
With strong senior leadership engagement and cross-functional team participation we're eliminating waste in all aspects of the business freeing up critical resources to focus on building our brands and growing per caps.
In our first 10 months of practicing and learning RCI and with the participation over 1 200 of our people in 92 Kaizen events we were able to increase selling time increase our speed to market in cold drink placements speed innovation take 8 days sales out of inventories close 7 warehouses and significantly reduced space in 2 more.
We implemented over 250 safety improvements improved our cash flow through capital avoidance and achieved $57 million of annualized cash productivity.
When we began RCI early last year we set out to engage the organization and began a long journey towards creating a real continuous improvement mindset.
This is not a productivity improvement program with a defined-end goal.
Rather this is about creating a sustainable business model of continuous improvement underpinned by a mindset of relentless focus on providing value to our customers and consumers.
In fact as we get better at it we will involve customers and bottling partners so that we can strengthen the entire value stream.
Based on our early results I remain extremely confident that we'll achieve at least $115 million of cash productivity over the first 3 years of this journey.
Moving on to 2012 full year guidance.
As Larry said we have strong momentum in the business and despite a challenging macroenvironment we remained focused on executing our strategy to build our brands grow consumption and develop a continuous improvement mindset.
We believe our 2012 plans should enable us to grow net sales near the low-end of our 3% to 5% long-term growth range.
We based this growth expectation on a view that net pricing will be up about 2% to 2.5% with a 0.5 point or so of volume increase.
Considering our hedged positions and current market prices for our unhedged positions we expect packaging and ingredients to increase total cost of goods sold by 2% to 3% on a constant volume mix basis.
We're also expecting higher transportation costs both in terms of fuel costs for our company-owned fleet as well as higher lane rates from our common carriers.
This is expected to add about $13 million to our cost base in 2012.
Below the segment operating profit line corporate costs will increase by approximately $8 million primarily driven by increased ABA fees to continue to support industry initiatives.
Our net interest expense will be around 4.5% on our $2.7 billion of debt.
This is an increase of $8 million over 2011 as we refinanced low-floating rate debt last November.
Our full year tax rate is expected to be approximately 37% and you should view this as our normal rate now that we've lapped the onetime tax benefits from the Coke and Pepsi transactions.
Finally we expect capital spending to be about 4% of net sales and we expect to repurchase approximately $350 million to $375 million of our common stock in 2012 subject to market conditions.
For the full year we expect diluted earnings per share excluding the impact of commodity-related mark-to-market gains and losses to be in the range of $2.90 to $2.98.
While we will of course continue to identify these mark-to-market impacts for you they will go longer be included in our core EPS guidance.
Now let me highlight a couple of things that will impact quarterly phasing and help you update your models.
First as we've been expecting Mott's and Hawaiian Punch volumes will be challenging for the first half of the year as the brand cycle price increases taken in the second half of 2011.
Second as you know concentrate sales are weaker in the first quarter as bottlers cycle through their annual December volume.
Third while our cost of goods sold guidance is up 2% to 3% for the full year a large portion of the packaging and ingredients inflation together with fuel cost inflation were approximately $35 million in total occurs in the first quarter.
Our 2012 guidance also includes a few other considerations.
Reported segment SG&amp;A will be favorably impacted by the absence of the $18 million litigation item recorded in the fourth quarter this year in the packaged beverages segment.
And based on current expectations foreign currencies is expected to be a slight headwind to net sales and profit growth for the year.
Hopefully these points of clarification are helpful to you.
With that let me turn the call back to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
Our 2011 results and 2012 plans are once -- once again demonstrate our teams are executing against our focused strategy.
We're gaining distribution in core packages and driving trial with new fountain valves and cold drink placements.
We're bringing new users to the franchise with exciting new product technology like our TEN platform and with new packaging on existing products like our multi-serve Snapple Premium 64-ounce PET.
We're committed to delivering value to our customers while ensuring we're investing wisely in this business for the long-term sustainable growth.
We had great wins with RCI in 2011 and strong engagement across the organization.
But the runway is long and our teams are committed to making RCI a sustainable competitive advantage.
And finally we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders with a view of providing very attractive shareholder returns.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Steve Powers from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> It sounded like your Q4 marketing spend was only up about $2 million year-over-year versus I think you had said $7 million to $12 million coming into the quarter and that was the guidance versus your Q2 guidance.
Especially with competitors have announced in terms of brand reinvestment plans why should we be comfortable with that trend? I know you said -- I think you said up $10 million to $12 million in Q1 that's a good start.
But a will you hit that number and then b I don't think you said the full year.
Is there -- what's the plan beyond that? I certainly wouldn't look at that as a trend Steve.
Like we said in Q1 we're coming in $10 million $12 million more.
And also I think you got to take into consideration the return on market investment initiative we've been putting in place.
That we're making sure that we're getting more bang for our buck spending more smartly spending more on local instead of national going after the low per cap markets spending heavily on the Hispanic markets.
So it's a little hard to look at that and say that's a trend.
Steve it's Marty.
Let me just a couple of things.
Number one yeah we spent a little less in Q4 than our guidance and some of that was we have a unique program we think on Sun Drop with MTV.
It's pay-for-volume sort of program and those volumes were down a little bit in the quarter.
But what I'd tell you is as we continue to say we are spending on everything that we want to and can execute on.
And our spending up in Q1 reflects that and also reflects the fact that Q1 last year was probably our low -- I know our lowest marketing spend quarter in Q2 is our highest.
So we're spending what we want to spend on marketing.
ROI is causing us to redirect spend.
We've talked before about shifting higher cost marketing dollars that are spent on national programs into both local programs and social media marketing and all in we'll still spend 7.5% of our -- roughly 7.5% of our sales on marketing.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching if I could to the topline given the difficult volume trends that we are seeing outside of the brand Dr Pepper and Snapple can you have scheduled a little bit more comfortable with the 3% top line growth next year? I think you said pricing will be up 2% to 2.5% with a 0.5 or so volume.
Can you talk about how that breaks down CSDs versus non-carbs and maybe specifically how do I burn Dr Pepper versus the Core 4 versus the non-carb portfolio? Steve it's Marty.
Our -- roughly 3% guidance for net on the top line as I said 2% to 2.5% in pricing.
And if we think about that for a moment like everybody we took our concentrate price increase January 1 so that's in the market along with all the other sellers of concentrate.
And if we look at the pricing we took last year and just consider the rollover the continuation of those pricing levels into 2012 you get just a little more than 2 points of pricing.
So actually nothing has to happen from here to cause that number to change.
And when we assume like we're hearing everybody say that pricing is expected to remain rational in the market place where you see no data or evidence to suggest anything different.
The 0.5 point -- we've got a 0.5 point about of expected volume growth and as we said we know we are cycling in the first half of the year some tough comps because of price increases in our Warehouse Direct business for both Mott's and Hawaiian Punch but we get to the second half of the year we actually cycle the impact that we saw this year when we all took higher pricing and volumes took a hit.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
With all your initiatives you got in the Core 4 you expect that portfolio to grow or maybe it's Core 5 [ph] or Core 6 [ph] now but can that portfolio grow this sheer volume or is it going to be a drag on the total portfolio? I don't think it's going to be a drag.
We're looking at being flat up maybe 0.5%.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So in line with the overall company.
Correct.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just lastly now I'll stop.
SG&amp;A expense control this quarter was a lot better than we had expected.
Can you talk about what's going on there and how much of that can carry over into fiscal '12? Yes and of course I assume Steve we're eliminating the $18 million of litigation that's included in SG&amp;A in the reported results.
And so yes SG&amp;A was down by $16 million without that.
I would say we had fairly good performance across almost all categories of spending.
We've been lapping a couple of headwinds as you said.
Marketing up $1 million or so I think a little bit of a couple million dollars had been a mark-to-market.
And underlying inflation in the business salaries wages healthcare et cetera probably worth $10 million or $11 million.
So against that we had some favorability as that's helped somewhat overlapping some fees we paid last year that -- at Coke and Pepsi and some other things and that helped us field down IT costs down.
I look at this and say when we're done because I know everybody wants to talk about how much is RCI benefiting us.
I'd put that number in the $4 million to $5 million range year-over-year just for the fourth quarter reminding everybody that we really started 10 months ago February 10 months 2011.
And so many of the things we worked on during the year are only really beginning to bear fruit.
And that's the way I would characterize the quarter's SG&amp;A performance.
Your next question is coming from Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Larry you mentioned the marketing increase in Q1 of '12.
Did you give the full year number also? We did not.
It's basically what we're kind of planning right now it's going to be up slightly but we just look at it as trying to manage it flat with what I talked about that with our return on market investment.
How we're moving to the social media more of the local over national.
So it's -- there's an increase in there it's probably maybe about equivalent to what's in the first quarter but basically looking at it saying we'll take all of it in Q1 and then stay pretty flat the rest of the way up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how large are these efficiencies you're seeing.
And sorry to harp on this but just given the enthusiasm for the TEN products and market share I see accelerated a bit for your business and the big increase obviously coming from competitors in terms of spending in the U.
S.
I'm surprised you're not on more even with efficiencies.
So can you just give us some type of quantification for how much efficiency you thing you're getting? Well the efficiencies across the board on all these things but I would -- to your question I get very excited when I see that the competition's spending more in marketing.
I mean that's good for our industry.
We haven't stopped spending.
We keep increasing.
We've increased $100 million over the last 3 years and they're -- my partner's out there also.
And so with our agreements in our priority brand I mean I think it's good for the entire industry.
When the tide rises all the ships rises with it.
I have no concern there at all.
Look at our plans for 2012 as I've said in my prepared remarks.
I don't think I've ever been more confident what we can do in 2012.
The groundwork we've done the last 3 to 4 years and what we've been able to do with RCI underpinning the plans that we have we're very excited about it.
And then you look at how we've been shifting the platforms.
I mean our focus is low per caps and to do low per caps you have to have local marketing.
And so some of that marketing will be in the way of local media some of it will be local activation.
So we'll stay very focused on that and to Marty's point we will spend what we need and we will spend what we'll return we can activate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Marty thanks for the comment on RCI quantification in Q4.
Can you give us some sense of how much incremental benefit you're expecting from RCI in 2012 relative to 2011 or at least help us frame the magnitude? Well I would tell you that it's just a lot of opportunity.
I -- you look at what we did in 2011 and if we probably did nothing more we could probably put $10 million to $15 million of improve in cost into operating results.
I'll also tell you that we did 92 improvement projects this year and I think the calendar this year is to do more than 150.
And I would just tell you that there is more opportunity in -- available to us than I think we even realize and that would be common with other people that I think have done this before in other industries and other companies.
So we are very early at it.
I know the balance sheet improvements are very visible.
You see our inventories are well down and service levels to our customers are up and as I said we're operating with less warehouses less touches and moving of inventory.
We probably reduced -- people tell me it could be upwards of hundreds of thousands of miles of transportation.
And so there's just a lot of opportunity.
I wouldn't -- I know you all want to model the numbers for next year we could carryover the benefit I suggested.
How much more we can get is yet to be determined.
But I want to remind everybody this is about improving value to our customers.
I know I'm sounding like a broken record when you do that and you get rid of all the waste you get improvement.
And as I said we're not too far away from actually involving some of our customers in this process.
We will help them improve.
It'll improve our relationships with them.
We've already had suppliers involved with us and they've helped us improve and we've helped them improve.
And like I said this is not a program for 2 or 3 years that we will then declare some success at the end.
So I hope that's helpful.
Research Division</strong> It is thank you.
And then last Larry in Dr Pepper TEN we've done some survey work that indicates repeat rates rolling in the high-20s for the brand which is a little bit lower than a typical staples launch.
So can you just give us a sense of your view on repeat rates and given the scatter data sales have decelerated a bit the last couple of months.
I just wanted to get your commentary on staying power of that brand and the repeat rates that you're seeing.
Yes I mean -- and I look at it to our plan.
We're not seeing the deceleration and how we planned it.
The biggest thing is that the repeat that we're seeing is above our expectations.
We had a good long test on it the test markets.
I can tell you this the brand as sort a percentage is staying right along with what we saw in the test markets.
It's one of those items that you probably heard me say before or something that we have to change in this industry that is sometimes we have don't have patience.
And we've got lots of patience on this brand.
We're seeing some very very strong execution.
Our shipments are up very good our bottler case sales continue to grow.
Our grocery ACV is at 92% our convenience is over 60% now.
We have very strong brand impressions.
But what we have planned for 2012 I mean with Blake and all the different things coming in we will continue to push that in the numbers.
It's one of the reasons we look at TEN.
That we looked and said we're going to start doing the Core 4 TEN because the numbers are there that make us very encouraged.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you give any sense for the range of repeat rates that you're seeing? No it varies by market.
I can tell you that we've got some markets that the performance is almost mind-boggling in Texas Oklahoma Salt Lake City Little Rock Arkansas I mean there are some numbers out there that people probably wouldn't believe me if I told them what that were but we're still going after in the lower per caps that's where our focus going to be that's going to help us in lower per caps with Dr Pepper TEN.
But we're very pleased with what we've had so far in the launch.
Your next question is coming from Mark Swartzberg of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess a follow-up to Dara's question and a couple others.
Dr Pepper as you look at that trademark it kind of had a mixed '11 and ended with strength.
Do you think that knowing what you know about Dr Pepper TEN and the other initiatives you have in the pipeline are you looking for growth for that brand this year? Absolutely.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then your pricing view for North America this year you're saying 2% to 2.5% you've taken some pricing in the fourth quarter.
Is that 2% to 2.5% you -- really a function of what's already been taken along with any assumptions regarding mix? Or do you think there's a little more to be taken now that Super Bowl has passed? Well of course we'll watch what's going out there Mark.
As I said the pricing is very rational very disciplined.
Marty explained that we do have a couple of points carryover so that does leave some room for more pricing.
Mix is always kind of -- it's one that we manage very closely with our revenue management.
How can we switch the mix to the right packages.
But never taking our eye off of delivering value for our customer and our consumer.
So yes is there a chance for probably more pricing? Maybe a little bit more but the carryover is a big portion of it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it And then Marty on commodities I may have missed it but can you give us an update about how well you're hedged and we have the rate you're looking for but level of confidence if you will given how the actual markets might play out over the year? Yes we are more fully hedged going into 2012 than we were this time last year.
And probably the 2 keys for us of course aluminum and corn.
Without giving you the numbers I would say our coverage on aluminum is probably double.
And our cover on corn is probably 20% higher than it was last year.
So we feel pretty good about where we are and particularly where we are relative to the competitive set.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It seems -- I know it's pretty early but just assuming the markets for those specific commodities and other key commodities stay where they are are you thinking -- can you give us any thoughts on how '13 might shake out? I know it's very early but assuming these markets stay where they are knowing what your hedges are in fact can you find yourself on a flat to down commodity situation next year? So it's very early to talk about 2013.
And we do have some cover already into -- but not a lot you would normally -- we'd normally not have a lot in 2013 at the beginning of 2012.
So we've got an approach to how we think about putting on our hedges timing time of the year depending upon the nature of the underlying commodity.
We think we've thought this through and that's how we'll execute the program.
And it did result in us picking up some coverage as I just said going into in 2012 as compared to where we were a year ago.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then I don't know if you can -- how far you can go on this Larry but obviously Pepsi is talking differently about their view of their bottling assets over the kind of intermediate term and there is some confusion out there about whether if at all either in the Pepsi system or the Coke system you're eligible for a scenario where in a refranchising you get a refranchising payment.
When you look at those contracts that you have is there anything that prevents you from being in a situation you were a couple of years ago when they decided to take the bottling assets in-house? Well one Mark I'll give you 2 points.
I'm not going to speculate on that.
But 2 points towards your question is one we have a change in control in all of our contracts; and number two I've never charged the bottler to transfer a product in my life.
Your next question is coming from Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can I start with first a housekeeping question and question what's the tender of the share repurchase going to be? I mean are you going to wait to sort of pay the taxes in the first quarter and then accelerate the purchase after that? Or is it going to be spread pretty evenly throughout the year? We haven't disclosed that Bill.
I -- there may be a little few more shares bought back in the second half of the year but it's all by market.
It's -- I would make 2 larger distinctions in the model for that.
Okay great that's helpful.
And then I know it's really early and the beginning to the year but are there signs that the consumption trends are starting to improve a little bit.
I mean you look some at the convenience store data and it looks like it's starting to really accelerate.
I mean are you seeing that on the immediate consumption side at all or is that just sort of a low anomaly? No we definitely are that's one of the things that gives us the confidence and you've heard us on our press release say we're cautiously optimistic.
We're seeing -- you'd heard me talk about in the third quarter that we were seeing traffic up in QSR traffic up in convenient and gas.
That trend is continuing plus now the ring the spend is increasing the spend per ticket.
That encourages us greatly.
And as we watch our numbers here with our cold drink and up and down the street we're seeing a change there.
So we're seeing that start to move in the right direction and it encourages us tremendously for 2012.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
How do you desegregate whether from some real macro improvements and real consumption gains? Well like I said the trend we watch is -- it's a combination of both.
But whenever you get the traffic people are starting to feel a little better about the economy and then whenever you start seeing that each one of those rings is starting to increase.
That they've kind of moved away from strictly 100% value to more of what is convenient and something that they really want to have and enjoy.
Your final question this morning is coming from Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> A lot of housekeeping actually.
Could you just repeat your goal for CapEx as a percent of sales? I think it compares to a 3.6% rate this year am I correct on that? Hey Caroline it's Marty good morning.
I said about 4%.
We were lower this year but as I said in my prepared remarks some of the lower spending this year was timing between the fourth quarter and 2012.
So we should be at about 4%.
I think maybe long-term expectation we could probably operate on a little less than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you didn't -- I mean what was your guidance for full year share repurchases? $350 million did I hear that right? $350 million to $375 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And under what conditions could you see that going up? I'm trying to understand if you feel you're underleveraged right now? No it's not about leverage at all.
It's about returning free cash to our shareholders after our dividend and we expect to fully deploy that and keep some level of operating cash on hand and we do pay attention to market conditions.
We do not put and have not have the program on any sort of autopilot as I refer to it.
We will be buyers in the market.
I -- we've already had -- we had a program in place beginning of the year so a 10b-5 program that could trade through the windows.
So we've already deployed $75 million in the market so far.
I don't know what's executed under that because we're sort of blind to that right now but I hope we've picked up a lot of shares here in the first 6 weeks of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> So again in terms of your leverage which looks very low are you comfortable at your current levels or do you see any -- or would you ever leverage up to -- buy back shares? No Caroline our debt leverage is where we've targeted to be and where we want it to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Then I just want to confirm.
Did I hear you say that you thought RCI could be around $25 million in savings this year? In 2012? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I said if we carryover everything we did in 2011 probably 10% to 15% and we'll see.
But we're going in essence double the activity in 2012.
But I've not put a number on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the mix did you indicate what mixes for the guidance for '12 for mix? No.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it will be positive or negative? It will be about flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just I think that is everything actually.
But again the tone of business going into the first quarter we heard very warm weather.
Do you think if you could factor out the weather that you still see this better tone of business or is that limited to C stores? I wish I could factor out weather I probably wouldn't be selling Dr Pepper but I'd look at it say Caroline that still for Q1 as an industry we're still lapping some very aggressive pricing from the back half of last year.
So I think we're going to continue to see numbers more like fourth quarter maybe a -- some improvement but it's still lapping some unprecedented price increases that were taken in trimester 3.
So I think we're going to have our challenges in the first trimester but very excited about what we're going to be able to do in the second trimester and third trimester because we're finally getting pricing where it should be and then we can start building everyone has had a go to be spending more money more marketing more activity and that helps drive the volume for us.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple more.
In the first quarter obviously you're going to spend a lot more money you've got more of a negative volume from the pricing going up.
Number one did pricing go up more in the first quarter than it was up in the fourth quarter or was it all carryover? That's the first question.
It's carryover from the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And when in the fourth quarter was the pricing increased? It's actually taken in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no incremental.
And then are you indicating you could have kind of flat earnings in the first quarter or down? I think if you work your numbers on kind of some of the things that we've given you.
We've been very clear first quarter is our challenge mainly driven by commodities.
The biggest piece for us to overcome on the commodities is Q1.
And but still you've heard me say this twice I don't operate too much on quarters.
I mean I'm very -- you've heard our numbers for the year and I'm very very confident on our 2012 numbers.
But we're doing the commodities and then a lot of marketing in the first quarter.
So I'll just kind of let your model kind of show where that's at.
Research Division</strong> No problem.
I just wanted to have my expectations in the right place.
That was more the idea.
So Marty if I may just go back CapEx came in below expectations this year.
The 4% sounds like that's the high-end of what you think you'll spend for '12? I think that's fair.
Right now that's our view we'll spend 4%.
I don't have any reason we will spend more than 4% but that's our expectation right now.
Your final question is coming from John Faucher from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow-up on as I look at your guidance and sort of factor in the higher tax rate year-over-year that implies a big swing in the operating profit trend from if you strip out the Coke and Pepsi payments down about 4.5% 5% over the last couple of years to up sort of middle single-digits at the low end and may be more of a sort of high single-digit.
So can you talk about the factors that get you either the low-end or the high-end of that range? In particular going back to the question about the competitive spending levels if you see that start to come in and put a little pressure on market share do you have that flexibility you think to say okay yes we're not just increasing marketing spending in the first quarter year-over-year but sort of taking it forward from that as well? And I guess that leads to the second question which is a little bit of a clarification on the raw materials guidance because I think you guys guided sort of the impact of the raw materials on COGS.
Is there a sort of COGS other than raw materials number in there as well or is that all sort of one if that makes any sense? John it's Marty.
Let me try and take pieces of those questions.
I think the first part of your question was sort of the operating profit structure if you will in terms of looking at -- I'm trying to create some sort of baseline going into 2012.
The way we -- so let's inspect first 2011 as the baseline.
Because 2011 is a tough year to look at because of the cost inflation.
But if you actually take out we've done this take out just a handful of things that I think we'd all agree are non-comparable items and I'll let a while if you know the legal matter we had this year and the Williamson strike last year or the significant change in mark-to-market results year-over-year.
The Pepsi and Coke transactions both -- it increased revenue amortization this year that'll be flat line now going forward into 2012 as well as the fees we paid to those transactions a year ago.
If you do all that actually margins are down 100 basis points.
Coincidently they're down 100 basis points on a reported basis but to be sure back in those items you sort of get the same answer.
Interesting point here is that when you now take commodities and higher fuel costs at a pricing this year that would have predicted 150 basis point decline for the year but the decline was only 100.
So it was actually 50 basis points of improvement underlying everything else and I wish I could tell you exactly where it was.
If I went not segment mix there's no -- it's not about having more of our business in concentrate.
Actually there's a slight even headwind there because segment mix actually a little less concentrate and a little more LRB this year but still probably not enough to move the needle significantly.
So we actually have some underlying operating improvements.
Whether it is mix due to having for example higher sales of Snapple which is a relatively good good margin sale for us or whether it's just efficiency and improvement is actually a nice data point as a trend and hopefully we can continue that into 2012.
So that's the operating income piece.
On your COGS question we set 2% to 3% would cover everything.
That's total COGS.
Not just...
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then sort of how you think about the flexibility sort of high end versus low end again because we're all in sort of new territory here with Pepsi's and outspending.
Just how do you -- what decision points do you think you make across the year to say okay it is more understanding the rising tide analogy but what causes you to look at this and say okay we need to respond to this with more marketing dollars of our own and I'll stop there? Yes.
No I think at any time if we saw that we would respond.
I mean that's one of things we've done but we don't really feel we're going to need to.
Everything we're looking at and the plans we've seen especially the first trimester's already put to bed the second trimester we're working on it now everything is telling us that we've got the right plan in place.
That's one of the beauties of RCI and why Marty and I keep saying it is not a cost-reduction.
RCI is for growth.
We're going to grow this business with what we can do on RCI.
And so it always makes more things available for us to do.
But I think like I said I'm excited about seeing more spend coming in to the industry and I think we're all going to benefit from it.
So I feel very confident John.
Research Division</strong> In sort of keeping with that then so I guess I'm not quite done yet does the extra spend as a bottler as well as a concentrate company and as someone who's brands are bottled and distributed by Pepsi as well as Coke does this give the retailers a view that maybe they're going to put more support behind this category? Or can you talk about how the retailers are viewing this reinvestment cycle that we're seeing? We are we're the seeing retailer invest he understands that it's doing a lot of -- drives a lot of traffic.
We're seeing our display activity up.
I think another piece John that kind of helps us as you tie to the increased marketing spend that the industry has been talking about.
We truly benefit from that with our relationships with our partners.
With priority brand on Dr Pepper those displays are out there on both sides and Dr Pepper and Diet Dr Pepper are there with them.
So just a lot of things that are playing to our benefit this year.
Well I think that was our last call so I want to thank everybody for joining us today and especially for your continued interest in Dr Pepper Snapple.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relation.
Carolyn you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Carolyn and good morning everyone.
As I'm sure you saw in this morning's earnings press release our results for the first quarter came in consistent with our expectations.
Our brands continued to perform well in the marketplace this quarter despite the fact that our pricing is up across both our CSD and juice portfolios.
We grew both volume and dollar share in our CSD and Tea categories and outperformed the industry.
Our teams continue to make our brands top of mind and close at hand for consumers.
And with the traction building on RCI everyday I am confident that we will achieve our expectations for the year.
For the quarter bottler case sales were flat on 4 points of price/mix lapping 1% growth in the prior year.
CSDs grew 2% led by our flagship Dr Pepper which also grew 2% driven primarily by Dr Pepper TEN which we launched nationally in Q4 of 2011 and continued growth in our Fountain business.
Our Core 5 which are our Core 4 plus Sun Drop grew 3% in the quarter fueled by the continued strength of Canada Dry and mid single-digit increases in A&amp;W and Sunkist.
7UP grew 1%.
These increases were partially offset by a double-digit decline in Sun Drop as we cycled the national launch in the first quarter of 2011.
Together with Crush these brands grew 1% for the quarter.
As expected both Hawaiian Punch and Mott's declined double digits on larger relative price increases than were implemented in mid-2011.
We would expect these trends for Hawaiian Punch and Mott's to continue in the second quarter.
Once again Snapple continued its momentum posting a 5% increase while lapping 10% growth in the prior year.
I'm proud to say that Snapple continued to outperform the category while providing value to our consumers with new flavor and package innovation.
Our other brands increased 5% fueled by growth in our Hispanic portfolio including Peafiel Clamato and Squirt from our CSD value strategy and 2-liters and 20-ounce on brands such as RC Cola Tahitian Treat Cactus Cooler and Nehi.
We also saw growth in our allied brands most significantly VitaCoco and Neuro.
On a currency-neutral basis our net sales increased 3% for the quarter reflecting 4 points of price/mix partially offset by lower branded sales volume and a reclassification of certain customer transportation allowances from SG&amp;A expenses.
Segment operating profit decreased 3% for the quarter with sales growth and productivity improvements more than offset by $31 million of higher packaging and ingredient cost other operating cost inflation and the higher market investments of $8 million.
Reported earnings per share were $0.48 for the quarter a 4% decline versus prior year.
As I look to our plans for the second trimester I am confident that our activation lineup and new products will engage our target consumers and increase awareness of our brands.
Once again Dr Pepper is teaming up with the hottest movie this summer The Avengers.
And just like Dr Pepper The Avengers are all one of a kind.
We're running a national co-branded TV and radio campaign reaching over 90 million of our target consumers.
We'll have promotional packaging and collectible cans for take-home consumption coupled with an x mark program for immediate consumption.
Guy Fieri the celebrity face of summer grilling is partnering with Dr Pepper to give consumers his own exclusive cooking tips and recipes featuring Dr Pepper as a key ingredient.
Consumers will also have an opportunity to win a live grilling experience with Guy himself.
We're engaging the Hispanic consumer by sponsoring the PJ Awards the #1 Hispanic awards show for the third consecutive year.
We're offering our consumers a chance to win a trip to Miami attend a private Pitbull concert and we'll also give them an opportunity to attend private PJ VIP parties where they can meet and greet artists from the awards show.
7UP will be integrated into the hit show Survivor and our message in a bottle in-store merchandising and display activity will feature our entire Core 5 brand portfolio.
Sunkist will partner with the U.S.A.
Dream Team to headline our Core 5 summer basketball program.
We'll offer promotional packaging and collectible cans featuring former Olympians fully supported with national media.
Our Core 5 20-ounce Facebook credits program is on fire driving growth in our immediate consumption business.
And now several of our brand pages have over 1 million Facebook fans so we're extending this program throughout the summer.
And we're not stopping there.
We brought news to the Tea category with our national launch of Snapple Diet Half 'n Half lemonade iced tea.
And now we're bringing more news to the category with our launch of Snapple Lightly Sweetened Teas.
Snapple will also partner with America's Got Talent on an under-the-cap program that will give consumers a chance to win a VIP trip to see the talent finale.
America's Got Talent is the #1 show during the summer selling season and Snapple will get over 855 million media impressions throughout the season.
With that let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through some of our below-the-line items and our thoughts on our second quarter.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
Before I cover corporate and other financial items I'd like to briefly review the major items impacting our gross margins which declined 180 basis points in the quarter.
Consistent with the guidance we provided on our fourth quarter call the largest portion of our packaging and ingredients inflation was expected to occur in the first quarter.
Net of pricing this reduced gross margins by 140 basis points.
Other manufacturing cost increases including higher depreciation reduced gross margins by another 50 basis points.
Changes in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter caused us to record $6 million of unrealized mark-to-market gains on commodity hedges approximately $5 million of which is in cost of goods and the rest in SG&amp;A.
This compares to a $2 million unrealized mark-to-market gain last year all recorded in SG&amp;A.
This favorable comparison improved gross margins by about 30 basis points.
As a reminder unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on commodity derivatives are included in corporate expenses and will be included in segment results when the contracts settle.
Additionally as you saw in this morning's press release we are now excluding these impacts from our core EPS result and our full year EPS guidance is now stated on this basis.
Now moving to below-the-line items.
Corporate costs were $65 million for the quarter compared to $67 million last year.
Without mark-to-market impacts in both years corporate costs were $71 million compared to $69 million last year.
Net interest expense was $32 million $6 million above last year as we refinanced a low floating rate debt last November.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 37.4% and in line with our full year expectation now that we've lapped the onetime benefit in 2011 from the Coke and Pepsi agreement.
Cash from operating activities was a use of cash of $325 million after paying $508 million of taxes on the Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements.
As a reminder we'll make a $23 million tax payment related to the Pepsi and Coke agreement in the second quarter.
Capital spending in the quarter was $51 million and we returned $153 million to our shareholders with $85 million in share repurchases and $68 million in dividends.
On February 8 we raised our quarterly dividend 6.3% to $0.34 per share from $0.32 per share.
We repurchased 2.2 million shares in the first quarter and now have 211.8 million shares outstanding.
Now in the beginning of its second year rapid continuous improvement or RCI as we call it continues to gain momentum across our entire organization and I continue to be very encouraged by the progress we've made to develop a sustainable continuous improvement mindset at Dr Pepper.
As you've heard me say RCI is not a cost-reduction program rather RCI is about creating a sustainable business model of continuous improvement underpinned by a mindset of relentless focus on providing value to our customers and consumers and eliminating everything else.
The result is of course improvement in cash flow and earnings over time.
Since we began our efforts in February of last year we've engaged more than 1 900 of our people in 156 Kaizen improvement events and identified $77 million of annualized cash productivity.
Our RCI efforts are focused on improving safety quality delivery productivity and growth and we're achieving results against each of these planks.
We're emphasizing the importance of safety and making Dr Pepper a safer workplace with the identification and implementation of 350 improvements.
We're improving quality and delivery for our customers by providing fresher product and reducing out of stocks all while taking 7 days out of inventories.
Inventories on a FIFO basis when compared to March of last year are down $29 million.
We're beginning to realize cost savings from the closure of 8 warehouses and reductions in outside storage totaling over 1.2 million less square feet of space.
And fewer miles are being driven transporting products between location and we're driving growth with more time spent in the selling process.
Year 1 was about getting the organization engaged and we had some great wins at our Warehouse Direct and LAB businesses as well as in a number of other areas including marketing innovation and certain administrative functions.
This year we're focusing much more of our RCI resources on our DSD business and we're kicking it off with 5S workplace Kaizen events across each of our DSD facilities.
For those of you that are unfamiliar with the 5S's of Lean they are sort set in order shine standardize and sustain and are founded on the principle that a well-organized workplace increases and improves both productivity and safety.
We completed our DSD pilot in Miami earlier this month and we just completed a 5S event in our Plano R&amp;D facility last week.
The improvements we've identified thus far combined with the enthusiasm of our senior leadership and employees who'll be working on 150 improvement projects in 2012 gives me confidence that we'll achieve our goal of at least $150 million of cash productivity over the first 3 years of this endless journey.
Moving on to 2012 full year guidance.
As you saw in today's press release we continue to believe that we can achieve net sales growth near the low end of our 3% to 5% long-term range and full year core earnings per share in the $2.90 to $2.98 range.
Despite high gas prices we are pleased to see some early signs of improvement in the macroeconomic environment in the U.S.
with sequential improvements in QSR traffic and immediate consumption trends.
Against this backdrop we continue to expect net pricing to be up about 2% to 2.5% for the full year with around 0.5 point of volume increase.
Consistent with our last update considering our hedged positions and current market prices for our unhedged positions we expect packaging and ingredients to increase total cost of goods sold by 2% to 3% on a constant volume mix basis.
While our outlook for commodities remains unchanged if current trends hold we could see this outlook improve in the latter part of the year and we will provide an update on our next earnings call.
We continue to expect certain higher costs affecting transportation both in terms of fuel cost for our company-owned fleet as well as higher lane rates from our common carrier.
This is expected to increase SG&amp;A by $13 million in 2012 of which $3 million occurred in the first quarter.
Our net interest expense will be around 4.5% on our $2.7 billion of debt an increase of $11 million over last year.
And finally we continue to expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 37%.
In terms of cash flow capital spending is expected to be approximately 4% of net sales and we remain on track to repurchase approximately 350 million to 375 million of our common stock in 2012 subject to market conditions.
For modeling purposes let me highlight a couple of things that will impact quarterly phasing.
As occurred in the first quarter Mott's and Hawaiian Punch volumes will continue to be challenged through the second quarter as these brands cycle price increases taken in the second half of 2011.
Contract volume should grow at rates similar to this quarter as a result of growth in the energy category.
We expect commodity to be up slightly on a constant volume mix basis compared to Q2 last year with the comparisons improving in the second half of this year.
And finally as a reminder Q2 was our highest quarter of marketing spend in 2011 and we can expect it to be up slightly in 2012.
Hopefully these points of clarification are helpful to you.
With that let me turn the call back to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
We're executing our focused strategy and it's continuing to pay dividends with share gains in both CSDs and Teas.
We're committed to always delivering value to our customers and ensuring we're investing wisely in this business for long-term sustainable growth.
With strong leadership engagement and enthusiasm across the organization we're winning with RCI and delivering results for our customers and on our financial performance.
And finally we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders with a view of providing very attractive shareholder returns.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Steve Powers with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So as you laid out in your opening remarks commodities and transportation costs were tough in the quarter.
Elasticity was severe on the non-carb said.
But on the other hand weather was good.
I think there might have been an extra selling day with the leap year and you underspent your targets a bit on advertising again.
So I think that the key question that this quarter has raised is whether you can consistently deliver external [ph] expectations on both volume and EPS at the same time.
Last quarter earnings were a bit better than expected but volume's lighter.
This quarter volumes were better at least on the CSD side yet earnings came in a bit light but I appreciate that external expectations may well have been higher than your own internal forecast.
But especially in the context of RCI should we now expect DPS to be able to deliver on both metrics more consistently? And what lies ahead to give you confidence that you can over the balance of 2012 and beyond? Okay Steve.
Good summation.
Let me take it from the top.
This -- first of all this quarter was not a surprise in terms of probably the biggest factor affecting the bottom line which was commodities and therefore had the impact that we thought it would have.
I've given guidance on my overall view of commodity inflation for the balance of the year with a little footnote that says we'll take a look at current trends which are favorable and tell you what that means next quarter.
I mean I'll also add just to help all of you model this year as long as we're talking about gross margin that for the full year our expectation is we will be at last year's full year rate of gross margin or even slightly higher.
So even though we're down this quarter you could sort of think about that trend for balance of the year.
In terms of volume look the weather did what it did.
We're not going to quantify nor can we the effect of the weather.
I think we should take great comfort in the performance of our CSDs weather notwithstanding.
Core 5 grew.
Yes Sun Drop declined but remember we're lapping the introduction a year ago.
We pointed the volume declined but if you think about a product introduction you think about promotional pricing if all of you look at your own Nielsens and you look at Sun Drop and you look at Q1 this year versus last year you'll see price/mix up 20% so again lapping promotional activity.
Mott's and Hawaiian Punch as expected we took some fairly large price increases last year.
Everybody knows juice concentrate for Mott's was our Achilles' heel last year to a significant degree in commodity inflation.
It doubled last year.
Going into this year it also had increased and it's one of the areas that we're seeing softening in.
So we'll see how that translates into our activities around Mott's for the balance of this year.
And again Q2 we expect that to happen.
But if we look at where we are with those brands and our major customers we feel really good about how those brands can perform in the second half.
The marketing spend I tell everybody we continue to tell everybody up $8 million.
Maybe we're $2 million shy.
We continue to equate -- overly equate in our view the effectiveness of the spend versus the total spend.
We were drawing conclusions on effectiveness from total spend.
We could talk ad nauseam about what we're doing in social media what technology is doing to the cohorts by many of these brands and what the spend rate is to get effectiveness.
And if you look at GRPs they're up like 63% 64% as a measure of our people getting the message around our brand.
RCI I continue to be thrilled by it and yes we measured $77 million cash productivity.
The balance sheet components just jump out at you.
Cash flow this quarter if you take out the tax payments was significantly better than last year in the first quarter.
We probably had $5 million at best I can measure of the year-over-year cost improvement from RCI.
And I believe if we did nothing else and just implemented what we've identified already we can probably add another $10 million to $15 million to that balance of the year.
So I don't if I've missed any of the areas you identified but taken together we feel pretty good about balance of this year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean I guess I hear that and I hear the excitement and -- but I also see the results with not just this quarter but last couple of years and acknowledging the environment.
But it's been hard to grow both the top line the bottom line thus far for DPS and I'm just trying to get a sense for what's going to change.
It sounds like the answer to some extent is commodities and maybe that's the wrong read.
But if I look at the commodity outlook that you got and maybe getting a little bit better is that insurance policy? Or is that potential upside? No.
It should be upside.
And I think Steve this question comes up a lot in this space about profitability over time.
And if you go back to 2009 when the industry picked up a lot of commodity relief coming out of 2008 and so that was favorable and that lifted earnings for everybody as you recall.
It didn't get competed away.
And then we saw the increase in commodities and everybody took price.
And everybody knows the category's elastic and everybody anticipated that it would result in a decline in volumes.
And the pricing environment's been rational and we get some relief on commodities.
We'd expect -- we expect that to go to the bottom line.
And I'd like add too Steve.
If you'd look at it I mean we'll be 40 years old next month.
And a lot of the prior year was a lot of our foundation spending and I think we're really starting to see the benefits from the investments we've made.
We've increased marketing over $100 million.
I mean we will spend where we can get results from our brands and what we spend.
So we're very confident.
We feel very good about this year and I'm just thrilled to death with our CSD numbers for first quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Just I guess on the CSD point Larry just building on that.
And Dr Pepper TEN any comments around what that contributed in the quarter would be great.
But it looks to us at least it's like grocery ACV for DP TEN on the base 2-liter and the 12-pack cans kind of the SKU is only about 60% with single-serve 20-ounce only about 30% and that's essentially the same levels that we saw in the month immediately following launch.
So first how do those numbers compare with the cold drink channel? And then more generally is there -- is distribution on DP TEN where you want it to be? Can it be broadened from today's rate et cetera? Yes.
I don't know where your numbers come from Steve.
We've got grocery ACV at 93%.
Convenient and gas were at -- right at 60%.
Our trial rate is at 10%.
It's way above the target we set for it.
Our repeat is right -- repeat rate is right where we had planned it to be.
We've got a lot of strong brand impressions out there with it.
So I would say on Dr Pepper TEN it is doing exactly -- doing actually more than what we had planned and we're very happy with it.
And the test we're running on the Core 5 TEN is exceeding our expectations.
So we're very happy with that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- my numbers are Nielsen and maybe it's that I'm looking at all track channel ACV for the SKU.
You're maybe just citing grocery.
Is that a possibility? I've got grocery at 93% convenience at 59%.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just want to follow up on the CSD piece.
And you guys talked a little bit about the timing of concentrate shipments.
And I guess there was a little bit of a load in the fourth quarter but it's difficult to see how that played out given some of the repatriation et cetera.
So if I look at the CSD volumes up a couple of hundred basis points concentrate shipment volumes down 300 I mean that's a pretty wide gap.
Can you talk with us about how that's going to progress over time and sort of how much the lost concentrate volume contributed to the gross margin decline? And I guess sort of going forward in terms of looking at the second quarter with Mott's and Hawaiian Punch down it seems like that should have had a positive gross margin mix impact.
Did we see that in the first quarter? And should we model that in for the second quarter? Okay John.
So the movements around these items I guess in gross margin is your question.
So let's go back to concentrate volumes.
As happens every year we do get bottlers that buy ahead of the price increase.
And if we try to think about that's always going to happen so we're always going to have a little bit of a gap between BCS and shipments when you go to Q1 of every year.
If I had to put a number on what I think the impact was between Q4 and Q1 on volume it could be upwards of 1% in terms of the impact and the buy.
And now last year in the fourth quarter while the concentrate segment may have benefited from that in terms of volume over the prior year last year as you know we were continuing to lap the Coke deal and the loss of those concentrate cases to the concentrate segment the brand that came back into our distribution business.
Mix I mean the Hawaiian -- I mean the size of those brands themselves on mix itself and in the margin is not so great.
I don't think it's a surprise Hawaiian Punch for example is not a very high -- and as the dollar case.
So it's impacts on revenues are probably less than they are on volume of course.
Probably another factor of mix which you didn't raise the contract business.
So we need to pay attention to some of this product we make for others.
Everybody knows we do some manufacturing from some of the energy companies.
That category has been growing.
Our view of just the impact of the higher volumes in contract on a year-over-year basis reduced gross margins by between 30 and 40 basis points.
So that's a factor that probably didn't get modeled at the level all of you tend to run numbers at.
So I'll leave that with you because that business is expected to continue to grow as best that we see into Q2.
I think I've covered most of what I can cover.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean again you talked a little bit about the annual increases and you said that happens every year.
So I guess I'm trying to figure out what was different this year aside from the repatriation because that still doesn't get me to as big of a gap between concentrate and volumes as you guys showed in the quarter.
Well the only thing I'll add is and which I can add is that when I said it had a -- maybe a 1% shipment volume impact in Q1 is our best year of trying to look at prior year trends associated with the purchase of concentrate before the year-ago price increase and capture what we think the incremental purchases were by our bottling partners.
That's how it's measured because you're -- we're always going to have some activity.
Your next question comes from the line of a Brett Cooper with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I was just wondering if you guys could give us a timeframe when you're going to make a decision on rolling out the other TEN products nationally.
We haven't come up with a time yet.
We're still running the test in 4 or 5 markets.
Right now unless we have results like we saw on Dr Pepper TEN we can always pull it forward.
But right now we're looking at it being more of a 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> First just a clarification.
On your comment that you gained share in CSD is it a retail metric? Or is it a bottler case sales metric? It's on Nielsen.
Research Division</strong> On Nielsen okay.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the sort of the gross margin outlook Marty you've talked about ending the year or for the full year margins kind of being flattish versus last year which obviously implies a pretty nice improvement as you get into the back half of the year it seems like we have to rely on pricing still sort of staying positive to see the benefit of commodity relief.
So may we just talk about the competitive environment and sort of your thought on -- at both the consumer level and at the competitive level where the industry can actually hold on to the pricing that we've seen so far? Let me -- I'll take a part of this and Larry may want to make some comments from an industry perspective.
Our pricing guidance for the balance of the year to be 2% 2.5% for the full year for the most part is simply rollover pricing from last year.
So it's not really based on any more upward pricing actions.
So we don't have to do anything.
We just have to sustain that.
And of course on our margin guidance -- and again I'm not -- I don't want to talk without any mark-to-market impact info here.
So last year we had a fairly dramatic mark-to-market loss.
So up -- flat to maybe up slightly for full year speaks to the enormous amount of inflation in Q1.
I said up -- inflation up slightly.
I think everybody should know that most of the increase we've said was going to be in Q1 and the environment continues to tell us that our expectation should hold.
And as I said we may get even a little more upside from here but I won't say anything about that until next quarter.
Yes.
And Judy also on the -- what we're seeing out in the trade makes us continue to be more optimistic.
I mean we're seeing more confidence in the consumer out there.
Our C&amp;G traffic continues to grow.
Our volume is up in the convenient and gas.
We're seeing trips up.
We're seeing the spend up.
QSR is up.
So we're very optimistic on how we're seeing these trends improve with unemployment in March coming in better.
Seeing the overall number of trips in supermarket convenient gas QSR growing in mid single-digit numbers are very encouraging to us.
When we see the pricing and the promotional activity and trade again I'll sound like a broken record it's very disciplined.
It's very rational and I think we've all learned some lessons from what pricing will really drive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Larry just going back to commodity is there a way you can just give us a dollar amount in Q1 that's just the commodity impact in Q1? Yes.
It was $31 million.
$31 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> On the SG&amp;A line if I kind take out the advertising spend it looks like SG&amp;A year-over-year in the consolidated numbers actually came down.
And I was little bit surprised because I think there was quite a bit of transportation inflation as well.
So I guess the first question is that $31 million commodity impact you referenced was that just cost of goods sold inflation? Or did that include some of the diesel and transportation? And then maybe more granularly how does that sort of SG&amp;A number x the advertising trend for the year? Because it seems pretty solid in terms of taking cost out.
Well first of all let's -- the $31 million of commodity inflation is not in SG&amp;A.
That's all in cost of goods.
And in terms of cost headwinds in transportation for fuel for example this is where our early RCI activities beat that back.
Most of that savings I said occurred in the quarter was in transportation.
So even though fuel was up $3 million we were able to more than offset it with savings.
And I'll remind you we're still looking at that fuel to be up but we're also continuing to anticipate we'll get some good RCI savings.
So we feel comfortable about the SG&amp;A line and you're right to take marketing out because that will move around quarter-to-quarter.
We like our SG&amp;A cost performance.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And what's driving that though? So it's $8 million of advertising and $3 million of fuel inflation.
So effectively you take $11 million out of the $553 million and then you're down like 2% or 3% on SG&amp;A with inflation.
Don't forget -- don't -- okay a point of clarification.
Don't forget that this reclassification of certain customer allowances this year is now reflected in sales as a reduction of sales.
And last year that was included in SG&amp;A of about $6.5 million for the quarter.
So it affected the trend you're looking at and of course it also on the net sales line reduced our dollar sales growth number by 0.5 point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And then in terms of advertising support I mean year 2 on Sun Drop I mean I think there was quite a bit of a stepped up spending in last year against the brand.
Is that going to be redeployed? Or do you think there's still sort of the strategy that continue to go off at that base from last year? No.
We'll continue to grow on that.
You've got to remember too our agreement with MTV on that is most of the marketing is done by MTV and they do all the promotional the marketing and what we do on pack.
So we will continue to push on Sun Drop very happy with the results.
Like Marty mentioned earlier I mean we've seen a decrease in volume but if you look at the dollar price/mix we're up 20%.
And so it's right where we'd like to see it and continue to build off of it.
Research Division</strong> So -- and how sticky has distribution been? Have there been any losses on the distribution side? No none at all.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk a little more if we could about the carbonated performance.
Nice improvement there in the quarter both on the fourth quarter and on last year.
You talked about share.
What do you think happened in the category? How do you think the category performed versus year ago or versus recent quarters? Well the category was still weak Mark.
I think everybody can see that but it -- I see it improving.
It's a little spotty right now how it moves up and down by a 4-week period but I think it's encouraging to see where it's moving to.
I think if we can start -- what I mentioned earlier what we're seeing in convenient and gas more traffic.
We're seeing our single-serve grow.
We're seeing our convenient gas business grow.
And soon it should be getting to where the 2-liter and the 12-pack which are still a little soft in large format.
As of those trips into those stores keep picking up we should see those starting to come back.
So I think that's one of the things that makes me optimistic about where will see's CSDs go the rest of the year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I'm trying to understand a little bit more of what's driving the share improvement you've had here in the quarter.
You've called out the brand Dr Pepper and a couple of your other large brands.
As we try to think about what's going on underneath the hood so to speak and Dr Pepper TEN is a component here can you talk a little more about what's going on to drive this improvement in these carbonated brands? And to be honest one of the things I'm especially interested in is the role of the company-owned 2-liter and 20-ounce promotions.
I think those are kind of $0.99 a $1 starting this year and to what extent that's a material contributor to the pickup here.
Larry.
I think one of the things we'd look at as we break it down -- I mean if we go across all of our 10 platforms we're seeing a great percent of total trademark across all 6 of them including Dr Pepper.
As we pull them out we're still seeing the core business grow.
So that tells us we've got a lot of strength there.
I think point #2 Mark would be I think we're just -- we really got some superior retail execution going out there.
We're really focusing on points of interruption especially in large format.
And as Marty mentioned we're just now getting into DSD with RCI and we're going to be freeing up more time for our people to be there out there selling.
Another one is all the investments we've made in marketing.
I mean as we increased that over the last 3 years over $100 million we're starting to see it pay dividends for us.
We've got good marketing working.
I mean we went from national to a lot of -- to local marketing.
That local marketing is helping us in low per-cap markets where we're really driving some growth.
And so we're just seeing all of the things that we've put together in our strategy the changes we've made starting to pay dividends for us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And can you speak a little more to the role that -- I don't even know if it's significant but you've got this company-owned 2-liter and 20-ounce less prominent brands.
But are they a big contributor to this pickup in volume overall? It's small but it is positive for us.
In some of our locations it's a big increase.
But we're seeing that the value strategy with the prepriced 2-liters are really working well for us.
Like I've mentioned in my prepared remarks I mean the brands of RCE Nehi Cactus Cooler Tahitian Treat they're working well.
It's -- a lot of those brands are very regional so they'll have a larger impact of volume in a regional setting but it's marginal when you roll it up into the total company.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And do you -- I may have missed this but do you give us a price/mix number for your bottler case sales either on carbonated or on a total portfolio basis at the bottler case level? No.
No.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So was it positive? Can you give us that? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It was positive? If you can give us that? Or it is positive? It is positive.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just one point of clarification and a question.
Just on -- first the clarification.
On the marketing spend $8 million in the first quarter and I think you were planning on $10 million to $12 million originally.
So is your marketing just rephased? Or is the total full year marketing budget still the same and you're just going to spend it in different parts of the year? Or have you found more productivity on the marketing line? Bryan it's Marty.
The answer is full year expectation should be up about $10 million.
Don't forget that when we get to Q4 we're going to lap the $10 million we spent a year ago on the Dr Pepper TEN launch okay? So unless we decide to do something else that's not in our plans right now that'll be a favorable comparison for us just in terms of the spend because we're going to lap that $10 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then on cash flow if I look at cash from operations and I pull out the tax payment it's cash from operations is up north of -- or came in at north of $150 million for the quarter.
Am I looking at that right? You might be.
I look at it a little differently.
And if you just take all the tax payments out in -- so just take taxes out sort of neutralize for taxes in both years -- this year was the Coke and Pepsi.
That was a unique payment.
But if you take the timing of tax payments out in both years you should be up about $96 million as I recall these numbers and $73 million of that $96 million came from working capital improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so I mean it's a pretty significant increase in improvement in working capital and in cash flow.
Is there anything specific? Is that -- as we kind of trend that out over the balance of the year I mean is that a trend? Like...
Well I wouldn't.
Look RCI I mean this is -- I just told all of you that I've talked to about RCI and Lean.
And the early implementations of Lean it's mostly about cash flow because a lot of it in manufacturing companies is around inventories.
We're operating with higher service levels to our customers $29 million -- and less inventory at $29 million.
It's 6.6 million cases across our PB and LAB businesses.
And you got to compare to March because of course the business is seasonal.
Obviously that's a big cash flow contributor.
I think we'll continue to take -- I mean if you're modeling you I presume will model on days of inventory or inventory turnover.
We took 7 or so days out.
We'd expect that number to continue to grow.
So our internal expectations are that we'll turn inventories even faster as we move through the year and that's going to be a big contributor.
On the operating line -- and then of course there's capital spending below the operating line which as we said this morning is 4%.
It came in a little lower this year than a year ago.
And when you free up 1.2 million square feet of warehouse space it tells you something about what your future capital needs may or may not be when it comes to things like warehouses for example.
So we expect an improving cash flow story.
That's in our expectations.
Research Division</strong> And the effect that we're -- so just to be clear the effect that we've seen so far we've seen in the first quarter is really just the work that you've done on the warehouse side.
It doesn't -- you were not even seeing the effect of what you're doing on your DSD business.
Is that correct? Correct.
When I look at RCI as I said in my prepared remarks most of last year was spent in our Warehouse Direct business here and across our entire LAB business principally on the Mexican part of that segment.
Nobody's commented on LAB but you see it just continues to over time improve top line and bottom line.
And we would attribute RCI and just the passion of the team in Mexico in terms of what they've done in all aspects.
We really haven't done much in DSD.
This is where we're devoting quite a bit of effort in taking our learnings from the other parts of the business to DSD.
And DSD is where most of cost is of course and we're just getting started.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Brendan Metrano for Bonnie.
Marty you mentioned that gross margins would most likely be at least flat year-over-year.
How can -- how should we think about the operating leverage the SG&amp;A line? And why wouldn't operating margins be up year-over-year? And could you maybe talk about some of the factors that would go into that and the sequencing? Well I haven't said anything about what could happen [indiscernible] expect to get some positive leverage.
You guys [indiscernible] to think about the marketing which we're looking full year the marketing to be up $10 billion (sic) [$10 million].
We are going to have to deal with higher fuel as I said and hopefully get that -- we're going to get the savings that I identified.
So we very likely should and could get leverage.
Your next question comes from the line of Dara  Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Larry on gas and convenience in the U.S.
you touched on this a couple of times but I was hoping you could discuss in more detail how sustainable do you think the improving trends were from Q1.
It sounds like you view it as more of a sustainable consumer rebound than something that was more weather driven.
And also just wanted to check on gas and convenience trends so far in April and how that compares versus Q1.
Yes.
We're seeing the same going forward as we come out of Q1.
Yes I think sometimes as people talk about the weather I don't anybody mentioned all the tornadoes we've had everywhere across the entire Midwest that are -- have just really been devastating.
That kind of affects our progress too but we were still able to grow even through that where we have some locations that we completely lost the entire trade in some of them.
So I don't put a lot of time on weather.
I tease my guys when they give me a weather report.
If I wanted weather reports I'd hire weathermen instead of sales guys.
But I think we've done well there.
We're starting also to see gas prices come down a little bit not where we want them but they've kind of leveled off.
They're coming down some.
But I think as I -- when I'm out in the trade and with our customers we didn't really see that much of an impact when the gas did get to $4.
The consumer was still positive and we saw traffic increases.
If you remember back in '08 when that happened they didn't go in the account -- into the store.
They filled up at the pump and left.
So we're seeing the traffic increase.
We're seeing the ring increase and it's very positive.
Then we'd look at some of the things we're doing to help drive that.
With what we've been able to do on Facebook with our 20-ounce program that has been tremendously successful.
And that's why I said in my prepared remarks we'll continue that through the summer to keep driving that very profitable channel and that very profitable package.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then it seems like the demand elasticity remains very high on the non-carb side of the portfolio despite pricing being in place for a few quarters now.
It sounds like you're not expecting much improvement in Q2.
So I just want to get your thoughts around when you'd expect to see demand elasticity moderate on the non-carb side.
Yes.
I think from our last call we've told everybody we took our pricing midyear last year.
So we knew that our WD business would be a challenge through the first half of the year.
We -- in our plans we see it turning around in the second half.
And to -- Marty mentioned a moment ago too that we saw at the beginning of the year another increase in apple juice concentrate on top of the doubling in cost last year.
But now we're starting to see it come down a little bit so that could be a very positive factor for us.
I think whenever you look at the apple juice it's just not Mott's.
I mean it affected the entire category.
Everybody had to take pricing on that.
And I think we'll see much better results in the back half and it'll build all the way through the back half of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Damian Witkowski with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> A question.
It's nice to see the growth in the quarter.
What's driving that? Is it your lower per-cap states or higher per-cap states? Just wondering if there's no difference.
I think it's a combination of everything Damian.
I mean we're seeing great results in low per-cap great results on our Hispanic strategy.
Our regional and our local marketing programs we're going out and doing very specific -- account-specific marketing instead of just a national.
Across the top line it's paying off for us.
TEN is doing a great job for us and again I got to go back to our teams on just improving retail execution getting the points of interruption out in the accounts and then staying very focused on our single-serve growth.
Inc.</strong> And then if you look at your Hawaiian Punch and Mott's business -- and obviously you've had double-digit pricing that you did last year.
So you're lapping that.
But I -- and you just made a comment that everyone in the industry is taking pricing.
I mean people are just trading out of the category? Or are you losing share to private label up? It's not as much share.
I think we've lost some out of the category.
I think everybody has.
I think we're starting to see them come back in.
I'm very excited about the programs and some of the innovation I see we have for the back half of the year.
A lot of that innovation is going to be more into packaging and how we'd go out and did our retail execution.
We're going to have a lot of palette displays going out.
We've come up with a lot of different ways to pack out to get the point of interruptions in our juice the same as we do with our CSD.
So I really like the plans that I've seen our WD business led by Aly Noormohamed for the back of the year.
Inc.</strong> And then cold equipment placement I mean what's the -- did I miss it? Or how many are you...
Well I didn't mention that.
We're still on track yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then Marty your interest expense for the full year comment you say it was at -- going to be up $11 million year-over-year? Correct.
Inc.</strong> So was it -- I mean you already had $6 million.
Yes.
Okay.
And then just remind me.
On natural gas how big of an impact does that have? I mean price is just coming down.
It's not a huge impact.
Your final question comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to juice do you think that this price dislocation could have alienated customers that have been gone to something else? What are they drinking instead? That's my first question.
Well I think what we're seeing is our loyal consumer the mom is going to buy Mott's no matter what.
But I think some that were more in as switchers as we call them I think it went to other juice.
We're seeing a pickup in juice drinks instead of 100% juice.
But I think as we watch what happened in the first quarter the forecast we have for Q2 what we're seeing for trade I really feel that we're getting them back.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because there is a lot of new activity from Coke and Pepsi [indiscernible] and juice drinks.
So I'm just wondering if that's going to affect that longer term.
I think that a lot of people they experiment.
Try Them.
But Mott's is designed for 100% mom.
Moms are our consumer there and we don't see moms switching that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Also I don't want to belabor this and maybe we have [indiscernible] time but I still don't really understand the 2% CSD volume growth and the 3% shipment decline in beverage concentrate.
I haven't been able to -- even if there's minus 1 point from reclass and 1 point timing it's still not where we need it to be.
I picked up my other comment about thinking through impact.
The concentrate business for Q1 the reclass [indiscernible] coming out of net sales this year [indiscernible].
So that's basically just a $1 comparison factor [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> So it's the non-carbs down 7% that's driving the shipments down 3% largely.
If you look at our shipment volume our shipment volume is down 1% in total case volume.
And of course those brands are...
Research Division</strong> No.
I'm actually just looking at beverage concentrate which I thought was really largely CSDs.
Caroline if I help you offline right because the non-carbs are not in CSD.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then just lastly Larry you have something quite optimistic about the consumer in C&amp;G and all that stuff.
I mean is this -- in other words is April looking as good as or better than March? Yes.
We're just saying we don't see that much change.
I mean we've been watching Caroline for last the last 3 months just steady gradual increases there.
We don't see that changing.
We see a slight uptick and it just kind of works each month which is what's making us encouraged.
We're not seeing any dips in there.
All right.
Thank you.
And I'd like to thank everybody for joining us on the call today and for your continued interest in Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relations.
Carolyn you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with the cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance can differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Caroline and good morning everyone.
As you may have seen in this morning's press release we once again delivered results in line with our long-term strategy.
Our brands continue to perform well in the quarter despite an unstable macro-environment.
We grew both volume and dollar share in CSDs outperforming the industry.
We made solid progress against our goals to increase distribution on availability and we continue to invest behind our well-loved brands ensuring that we always bring value to our consumers and our customers.
For the quarter bottler case sales declined 1% on 4 percentage points of price/mix as we continue to experience volume declines in our Hawaiian Punch and Mott's brands as we had expected.
CSD volumes were flat for the quarter.
Our flagship Dr Pepper brand grew 1% led by Dr Pepper TEN which we launched nationally in Q4 and our Dr Pepper Fountain business also continued to grow.
Our Core 5 brands grew 1% in the quarter even though we were lapping the successful launch of Sun Drop a year ago.
As expected both Hawaiian Punch and Mott's declined on a larger relative price increases that were implemented in mid-2011.
While Hawaiian Punch declined double digits Mott's declined 2% this quarter a sequential improvement from the first quarter.
Snapple volume grew 1% as we lap 8% growth in the prior year fueled by a limited time offering product.
We have made solid gains against our distribution of availability goals for this brand and since it's launch in the first quarter our Diet Half 'n Half has become one of our top 5 selling SKUs.
Our 64-ounce take-home package continues to perform well while providing value for our consumers.
The balance of our portfolio decreased 1% with a high single-digit decline in Crush partially offset by strength in our Clamato business resulting from our Hispanic marketing efforts.
Moving to our financial results on a currency-neutral basis our net sales increased 4% for the quarter primarily reflecting 4 points of price and mix.
Segment operating profit increased 3% for the quarter with sales growth and productivity improvements more than offset by higher packaging and ingredient cost.
Plant field operating cost increases higher-margin investment of $9 million to support the long-term health of our brands and an $8 million pre-separation related capital lease adjustment.
Reported earnings per share were $0.83 for the quarter versus $0.77 in the prior year.
Core earnings per share which exclude the impact of mark-to-market losses in both years and several other items affecting comparability in the current year were $0.85 for the quarter versus $0.78 in the prior year.
As I've said many times increasing the per capita consumption of our brands to increase awareness and availability remains DPS' single largest opportunity and I am thrilled with the progress we've made through the first half of 2012.
We've increased the availability of our core CSDs Snapple and Mott's juice SKUs in both grocery and convenience.
In grocery we gain 0.5 point of ACV distribution across our core CSDs.
While Snapple and Mott's juice are up 6 and 2 percentage points respectively.
We've also made great progress in convenience where the space is much more limited and harder to win.
With ACV gains of almost 7 points of Snapple and over 0.5 point in our core CSDs.
In Fountain we're expanding single-serve availability and creating new sampling occasions with 18 000 net new valves across both local and national accounts including wins in [indiscernible] Jersey Mike's Firehouse Subs and SUBWAY.
We're penetrating low per capita markets combining local media with strong retail activation.
Our Dr Pepper coastal program targets markets such as Seattle Baltimore and New York.
Year-to-date our display tie-in rates in these markets have increased by 3 percentage points and we will also increase our average number of items.
Our Snapple middle-of-the-country expansion markets continue to outperform the rest of the country.
With focused execution behind our innovation year-to-date volume in these markets grew by 20% with per caps up almost one serving.
I am extremely proud to see our people leading the charge to develop a sustainable continuous improvement mindset at DPS.
Since we began RCI 16 months ago we've engaged more than 2 400 of our people in 160 Kaizen improvement events and identified $94 million of annualized cash productivity initiatives which are being implemented.
The runway here is long and the journey is endless.
I firmly believe RCI holds incredible potential and can be a game changer for this business.
Moving on to marketing.
We'll engage our target consumers and increase the awareness of our brands with summer and third trimester activation plans that are stronger than ever.
Guy Fieri the celebrity face of summer grilling is firing up the grills and giving Dr Pepper consumers exclusive cooking tips and recipes featuring Dr Pepper as a key ingredient.
Sunkist and our Core 5 brands have teamed up with U.S.A.
basketball to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the 1992 Olympic Dream Team.
Collectible cans feature members of the Dream Team including NBA legends Magic Johnson and Larry Bird.
And we're giving fans the chance to win a trip to Barcelona the city where the team won the gold medal.
Dr Pepper continues its role as a major supporter of college football for the 17th year.
We just kicked off our successful Dr Pepper tuition giveaway program which offer students a chance to win $2 500 in tuition each week by submitting videos on the Dr Pepper website or Facebook page.
Throughout the football season Dr Pepper will showcase contestants' stories at halftime to build excitement leading up to the championship game.
7UP is partnering with successful crossover artist Enrique Iglesias and sponsoring the Latin Grammys the #1 rated Hispanic awards show of the year.
Consumers will have a chance to win a private performance with Enrique and tickets to the awards show in Las Vegas.
Local activation will include Latin Grammy street parties and private sessions.
And these are just a few of the great things we have planned.
With that let me turn the call over to Marty to provide further information on our financial results and our full year guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
Reported net sales for the quarter were up 2% which included 4% of combined net pricing and mix offset by currency translation and volume.
Gross margins were 57.7% this year compared to 58.2% last year.
Consistent with the comments we provided in our first quarter call packaging and ingredients remained inflationary albeit at much lower levels than in the first quarter reducing gross margins by about 80 basis points.
This was partially offset by positive price/mix which limited the gross margin decline to about 50 basis points.
From a housekeeping perspective we recorded $7 million of unrealized mark-to-market losses on commodity hedges with approximately $5 million included in cost of goods sold and the rest in SG&amp;A.
This had no impact on the year-over-year gross margin rate comparison as we recorded a similar loss in the second quarter of last year.
As a reminder we are now excluding unrealized mark-to-market impacts from our core EPS results and our full year EPS guidance is now stated on this basis.
SG&amp;A expenses for the quarter excluding depreciation increased only $1 million and as a percentage of sales declined from 37.9% last year to 36.9% this year.
We are very pleased with this cost performance given that marketing increased $9 million and we incurred higher field operating costs.
Productivity gains much of which is from RCI provided some offset to these cost increases.
Furthermore currency reduced SG&amp;A expenses by $7 million.
Depreciation expense increased this quarter by $8 million $2 million of which is included in cost of goods due to a pre-separation related capital lease adjustment.
This has been excluded from our core EPS.
Reported operating income of $300 million which has been reduced by the depreciation adjustment I just mentioned and $7 million of mark-to-market losses which were similar in amount to last year represented 18.5% of sales this year compared to 18.3% last year.
Moving below the operating line net interest expense was $30 million $2 million above last year as we refinanced low floating rate debt at the end of last year.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 34.3% which is below our full year guidance of 37%.
This includes a $4 million Canadian deferred tax benefit as a result of a recent tax law change in Canada.
This benefit has been excluded from our core EPS.
In the quarter we also recorded benefits from the favorable settlement of some tax contingencies which were already considered in our full year guidance.
For the 6 months cash from operating activities was a use of $41 million as we paid $531 million of taxes on the Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements.
Excluding the tax payments related to these licensing agreements in both years cash from operating activities increased by $197 million.
Capital spending year-to-date was $89 million and we returned $293 million to our shareholders with $152 million in share repurchases and $141 million in dividends.
Inventories at the end of this year's second quarter were $58 million lower than at the same time last year and on a day sales basis improved by 8 days.
This is the most visible and tangible evidence of the success of our supply chain-related RCI initiatives.
With that as a segue let me add a few comments related to RCI.
In addition to reducing inventory by 8 days we've also closed 10 warehouses significantly reduced miles traveled and implemented over 500 safety improvements.
And very importantly we've improved customer service levels.
The progress we've made thus far gives me great confidence that we'll achieve our goal of at least $150 million of cash productivity over the first 3 years.
This year we're focusing many of our RCI resources on our DSD business whereas previously most of our efforts were focused on our Warehouse Direct business.
We're making great early progress.
As Larry said the organization is broadly engaged.
We have a full calendar of improvement activities and we're beginning to demonstrate meaningful financial results.
Moving on to 2012 full year guidance.
Despite a challenging macroeconomic environment including an uncertain and somewhat unpredictable consumer we continue to believe that we can achieve net sales growth near the low end of our 3% to 5% long-term range and full year core earnings per share in the $2.90 to $2.98 range.
The pricing environment remains as rational as we've seen it in recent years.
Against this backdrop we continue to expect net pricing to be up about 2% to 2.5% for the full year with volume up 0.5%.
As a reminder we've now fully cycled the Mott's and Hawaiian Punch price increases that were taken in the second half of last year.
So we do expect the volume comparisons to improve.
Let's talk commodities and cost of goods inflation for a moment.
PET and to a lesser extent aluminum and apple juice concentrate all have shown positive trends since last quarter.
And while corn prices have recently spiked we were already pretty well hedged for this year.
And if it weren't for the spring freeze in the Northeast Apple growing regions I would have been guiding our cost of goods inflation assumption down to about 1.2% this year.
But because of this condition in the apple market we'll have to stay with the guidance of about 2% at the low end of our previous 2% to 3% range.
Consistent with our prior communications net interest expense will be around 4.5% on our $2.7 billion of debt.
We expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 37%.
Capital spending is expected to be approximately 4% of net sales and we remain committed to returning all excess cash to our shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases over time.
For modeling purposes let me highlight a couple of things that will impact quarterly phasing.
We expect commodities excluding mark-to-market gains and losses to be flat on a constant volume mix basis compared to Q3 last year with higher cost in the fourth quarter related to apples.
And finally with the strong activity Larry highlighted and heavier media rotations marketing spend is expected to be up at least $10 million to $15 million in the third quarter with lower spending in the fourth quarter as we will lap the national launch of Dr Pepper TEN.
Hopefully these points of clarification are helpful to you as you update your models.
With that let me turn the call back to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the line for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
Our results in the second quarter once again demonstrate that our teams are executing against our focused strategy and we're winning with distribution gains in key packages and channels.
And we're driving trial with expanded Fountain availability.
We remain committed to always delivering value to our consumers while ensuring that we're investing wisely in this business and in our brands to drive long-term sustainable growth.
We're winning with RCI with increasing levels of activity and engagement across our entire business and delivering results for our customers and improvements on our financial performance.
And finally we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders over time with a view of providing very attractive shareholder returns.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Larry just in terms of the consumer environment you've talked about the uncertain and unpredictable consumer.
So maybe if you can just give us your assessment of what you're seeing as you sit there today some of the channel mix dynamics that you're noticing.
And then as you think about the volume outlook for the balance of the year the sequential improvement.
How much of that is really just the non-carbs improving as you're lapping the pricing as opposed to sort of CSD also getting better? Right right.
There's a lot of them there Judy.
First of all the consumer.
We continue to be cautiously optimistic as we watch the U.S.
economy.
But we're also -- a lot of the things we're hearing from others is that they're seeing it slowdown.
None of our trends are showing that.
We're staying pretty steady in large format.
We're seeing continued growth in small format especially convenient and gas with our single-serve in our Fountain business.
So I would say we're staying cautiously optimistic on that.
As you look at kind of going forward on what we're doing with our volumes and everything you're correct with the lapping the large price increases.
We'll be seeing better volume coming in from the non-carbs especially Mott's that had the highest increase and then we're seeing a lot more activity with Hawaiian Punch.
But we continue to see our CSDs will continue to come in because we'll be cycling Dr Pepper TEN.
We've got a lot of good activity out there as we continue with our coastal and the center-of-the-country Snapple programs.
And the team just feels very very enthusiastic about how we'll be able to continue this current track.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Marty just in terms of guidance so commodities coming down to the low end of your prior guidance.
The earnings guidance aren't changing.
So is that just offset by marketing spending step-up? How are you sort of reconciling kind of the different components as you think about guidance? Okay Judy.
I think unfortunately as I said with respect to -- let's take it piece by piece.
No real change on the top line.
Cost of goods actually would've been more favorable but for the unfortunate situation we had in terms of an apple freeze and the run-up on apple prices which of course affects Mott's apple juice.
We have taken up our view a little bit on some expenses related to industry-related issues.
There's a lot of discussion a lot of things happening in some of those cost that we share with the rest of the industry participants.
We've taken up a little bit in our view in the balance of the year.
Full year marketing could be upwards of $15 million for the year.
And as I said in my remarks with the phasing of that such that more so Q3 and then lapping Dr Pepper TEN last year with some favorability there.
So I don't really think much has really changed.
There's nothing sort of in results this quarter that tells us and our view of the forecast that we ought to make any change to what is an $0.08 range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just following up on commodity.
So if you sort of think about maybe 2013 is the apple juice concentrate pricing issue sort of -- that flows into 2013 and how much are you covered on the other component for 2013 at this point? Okay.
So to be clear for everybody the comment relative to apples is not really a juice concentrate factor.
It's a whole apple factor as it relates to the manufacture of apple sauce.
I think most of you know actually we procure most of our apple juice concentrate like many people do from other regions outside the U.S.
most notably China.
So that's not a juice issue.
That's an apple sauce issue.
In terms of -- let me just talk little bit about sort of about commodities I covered off on where we were on corn this year and so we're pretty good shape this year.
It's a little early to talk about commodities for next year.
I would say we have layered in already some hedging on some of the key items.
At not huge numbers but reasonable numbers at this stage in 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> So just a point of clarification.
I might have missed this in response to Judy's question.
But your expectation for marketing in advertising for the year.
Is it going? Because it was higher in the second quarter than we thought it would be.
Is it going up for the year as well? On a full year basis? Research Division</strong> On a full year basis yes.
On a full year basis I said Mark will be up about $15 million.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the second question.
Just I guess more specifically to the consumer environment.
Can you talk at all about how consumer behavior in the convenience store channel and how the convenience store channel has performed maybe more recently? Yes we're still -- as I just mentioned a moment ago we're cautiously optimistic with the consumer.
We're still showing growth in our small format and convenience and gas.
Our Single-serve business is doing well in bottling can and Fountain.
But our Snapple business is just really expanding.
We're getting a lot out with the Dr Pepper TEN and our 20-ounce programs that we have out there.
So we're cautiously optimistic there but we are also always aware of listening to other people talk about seeing weakness.
We want watch that closely and make sure that the consumer doesn't start listening to it also and believing it.
But we feel we have the plans in place to continue our momentum and so we feel very comfortable where we're at right now.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In reading through press release we see the volume declines on Sun Drop as we cycle the launch and Crush is down year-over-year as well and we're obviously a little bit further out from the launch of that.
As you look at Dr Pepper TEN and sort of lapping that launch period what are the key things that you think you need to execute on to avoid having sort of volumes down in the second year? Because that's obviously been a big drag on some of these growth brands that come in.
You get some excitement you get some decent volumes in the first year but you probably had a little bit tougher time I think sort of sustaining that volume growth going forward.
Right.
That's a good question John.
I think our plans on Dr Pepper TEN are completely different than what we've done before.
If you look at what we've been doing with the TEN we've told everybody you've got to be patient.
It's something that we look at long-term that we're going to stay behind build it.
We're even testing some more TEN products to increase that platform.
So we're looking at this will be a long term.
It's always tough to lap a launch because of just that initial pipeline fill.
But the plans we have in place on TEN have us very confident.
And then also our Core 5 I mean our entire portfolio is growing.
We're seeing a 1% growth for the quarter.
We're seeing a lot of activity behind Sunkist.
We're going to continue that.
We've got great plans with our partners on Crush.
So we feel like we've got a great third trimester program going there.
And Sun Drop is another one that -- we're going to be patient on it.
We're going to stay behind it.
We've made some tweaks to it.
We're going to get a little more involved with MTV and we look forward to have a sustainable program out there that'll just have continued growth for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Cooper with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
First one on CSD pricing.
Do you expect to take or see industry take price in the second half this year? I think we might see some pricing after Labor Day.
LLC</strong> And then on your concentrate business year-to-date.
I think if I have this right your pricing is up I guess 100 to 150 basis points I think more than you took to bottlers.
Can you just talk about sort of what you're doing in reducing discounts and whether that's sustainable in the second half or should we expect that to reverse out? I don't think that's -- first of all I mean I think we've talked about our concentrate price increase before being a little higher than the number you quoted.
And yes out of that money of course we fund marketing and brand programs with our bottlers and the effect on discounts is as much about programs we're either putting in place in adding to or adjustments we're making to existing programs.
And sometimes we talk about this issue of discount [indiscernible] simply not spending either everything we've targeted to spend or in some cases actually decided we need to spend more.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Marty maybe the credit to RCI you end of the quarter with more cash than what I at least think might be operationally necessary long-term.
Maybe by about $150 million $175 million or so.
I guess first off is that a fair read on how much cash you need to kind of maintain an operational buffer? And then second assuming the business continue to generate cash for the balance of the year.
How do you expect that cash to be used? Acknowledging higher CapEx probably in the second half.
Should we expect an accelerated pace of buybacks? And I guess is there any chance of interim dividend raise? Steve I would say we've I think for cash flow modeling purposes whether we said it or not I think $100-plus million in terms of operating cash flow on your balance sheet is probably as good as any number.
Yes we are ahead in terms of cash flow generation from our own view earlier in the year.
I can't say enough about RCI in terms of its improvement on the balance sheet.
I just threw a metric at you that I looked at the other day.
If you look at days and inventories down 8 days and that's  why I covered it Steve and I'll get back to the cash deployment.
But it's $58 million it's 8 days.
If you actually go back and look at some periods long before we started RCI long before last year and you looked at inventory turns from the business and apply those turns without improvement to our financials today our inventories would be a little more than $100 million higher today.
So I think -- I just like great productivity there.
So we're generating more cash than we anticipated earlier in the year.
Our strategy remains the same deployment of free cash flow.
We'll go into share repurchase in dividends over time.
Our pace of repurchases was planned to be sort of where we are.
Right or wrong we concluded that given the cash flow profile of the company being somewhat back half skewed versus first half and the need to have made the $531 million in tax payment in our election not to borrow to buyback shares all resulted in us buying in dollar amount.
Fewer shares than if you prorated to $375 million evenly over the year.
Long winded way of saying yes we anticipate and had put more cash than we thought earlier.
We're going to continue to deploy it.
I've said we're sticking with $375 million.
I think that's a good number for you guys to model.
With respect to our dividend we've said earlier that we expect over time to be able to be a company that can continue to raise its dividend and over time that investors can sort of count on.
It is a board matter that our board takes up every year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess on RCI you again said it confidently achievement of the $150 million target.
But just on the inventory alone it seems like you're more the majority of the way there.
Maybe you said it but can you quantify where you think you are against that target and how do you assess has been realized on the cash flow statement versus the income statement? Well Larry said and $94 million I sort of just give you a metric and if you dialed back even further applied simple inventory turns you could argue inventories alone above that.
But I think -- I mean we're well more than halfway.
That's in our tailpipes now 16 months in.
P&amp;L a little more slowly but let me just add this that our ability to hold our SG&amp;A relatively flat in the face of marketing increases some labor cost increases.
I'd say that's a pretty good result.
And if you peel the numbers back this quarter alone probably RCI was I'd say in the $4 million maybe upwards of $5 million range of actual cost improvement in 1 quarter year-over-year.
In essence this time last year we were just getting started.
So there's nothing in that base number that we're lapping.
I think the balance of this year could easily include another $12 million to $15 million.
And I continue to say -- Steve and I give you credit I think you're closer to this than other people in having experienced it.
We're just getting started we're just getting started.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one last sort of housekeeping.
Branded sales volume in the quarter lagged BCS.
For the balance of the year how should we think about those numbers running versus one another in the back half? Basically in line or will it be some normalization? In terms of BCS your question really goes to volume.
So let's go back to this again.
And to I don't know Brian's question earlier.
Our model for this year the low end the 3% recall was sort of viewed as in a more difficult environment than maybe other periods and a less than robust environment.
Only 0 to 0.5 point is all we ever counted on CSDs and our CSDs are flat.
And we acknowledge that Mott's Hawaiian Punch even Snapple I mean not just those brands but those categories are the ones that have always had in our view more growth potential and so we've get over them for pricing.
And some of the retailer response to that we saw from.
I'm not going to comment too much on how it lays out by quarter.
But have our CSDs where they are in this environment we're pretty pleased about.
And the other brands I just mentioned outside we think have some reasonable growth potential for the balance of this year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But is there reason to think that sales volume will lag -- branded sales volume will lag BCS in the second half to kind of catch up from what we've seen in the so first half so far? We'll catch-up.
We have every view we'll catch-up.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on Dr Pepper and DP TEN.
How much did DP TEN contribute to your brand Dr Pepper growth during the quarter? And was that in line with your expectations? And then also can you give us an update on the other TEN products and test markets? And then can you also talk about the breakdown of Dr Pepper brand bottle TEN versus Fountain growth during the quarter? I guess I'm just trying to get an understanding of sort of the underlying health of brand Dr Pepper.
Yes if you look at our TEN we're still very happy with the performance of our Dr Pepper and our Diet Dr Pepper.
Everything on TEN has come in of our expectations.
It's total trademark is coming in as the percent we have planned in that 5% to 6% of trademark.
Again like I mentioned earlier it's one that's we're going to do -- it's a long-term strategy for us we're going to continue to build it.
But we're very pleased with the performance we're seeing in Dr Pepper and Diet Dr Pepper.
As far as the other TEN products still a little early to really go into a lot of detail.
But we're very very encouraged.
We're seeing even actually stronger performance as a percentage of the total trademark on the other TENs.
And so small test market out there still early but everything is very very encouraging to us that we definitely do have something here with a platform on this 10-calorie product.
Breaking down the bottling can and everything and the Dr Pepper TEN our Dr Pepper TEN was of the second quarter probably about 1 million cases of our growth on Dr Pepper which kind of hit Dr Pepper maybe just basically flat with Fountain food service continuing to grow low single-digit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then speaking of Fountain it was up nice up 3%.
And how much of that was driven by incremental valves? And is this sort of a good growth rate or run rate to expect for this [indiscernible]? I think if you look at it it's consistent with what we've been seeing the last quarters of about 50-50.
The guys have got 1 800 incremental valves out there so that's the incremental piece of it.
Then we're seeing increased VPOs out there.
The volume per outlets are looking very good.
So I'd look at it as 50-50 as we go forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just a final question on package beverages and sort of your price/mix in the quarter I might have missed it for your package beverage business.
And then how did the volume breakdown in the quarter between your branded and then the contract manufacturing in terms of that? Okay Bonnie it's Marty good morning.
The trade-off on volume side between contract and branded you're probably looking at contract up about 0.5.
And then branded being down maybe 1.5 almost 1.5.
Sorry give me the rest of that question again.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just the difference between the price/mix from each of those will be helpful.
Okay.
I'll go through it to you again on a reported basis.
In beverage concentrates you're looking at price and mix of upwards of 5 and package beverage is about 4 or 4.4 about 4.4 and LAB about 5.
So the differences is volume.
On a reported basis and then for LAB you'll have deal with outbacks.
Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala from UBS.
Research Division</strong> In the past you've sometimes given us some additional context on where the marketing dollars were going.
We knew there's a launch of 7UP or a rollout of Dr Pepper TEN.
For some of the step up in marketing are you willing to give some context on where you're allocating the funding? I don't know specifically.
I mean Larry rattled off in his prepared remarks a number of initiatives.
Clearly money is going behind Core 5.
Because we always have money behind Dr Pepper and again it's coming out -- coming out football season and that's a big activity for us.
As well as I would say Snapple.
You're going to see -- but you're going to see more activity coming into the holiday season on 7UP and Canada Dry.
That's seasonal we do that.
So I don't -- nothing I don't think anything unusual about where the money is being directed or to what activity it's being directed.
It kind of ties in my remarks earlier where it's the Core 5 with our Dream Team.
Our continued focus on Snapple and then this is the first time we'll have Dr Pepper TEN in the football schedule.
So there's a little extra there.
Research Division</strong> Okay guys.
it doesn't sound like there's any one brand that's disproportionally covers -- not much of it? No not at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then the final thing on the COGS just so I can understand this applesauce situation is this something that's temporary but you now know what the numbers we look like for the next 6 months or is this something that is maybe going to impact COGS a little bit further out.
It's always temporary on whenever you have a harvest that's been hit by an early freeze.
And it will go away next year but we've got to live with it it'll hit us in fourth quarter and most of the first 3 quarters of next year.
So we know the impact.
Our team has been able to put the apples in place and we've also got our price increases already up to the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then with corn pricing.
I know you're covered for the bulk of this year but how should we be thinking about HFCS pricing and such next year? I think it's too early to comment.
We'll be closer to it when we get of the next call.
So I think we to wait about 3 months.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up on Kaumil's question and then back to the top line.
But is it fair to think that this -- it sounds like this apple issue is about a 3-point incremental headwind in the second half if you take the comment about 2% versus 1.2%.
Is it fair to think that basically you're going to have an increase in commodities in the first half knowing what you know right now? About how your hedges roll off and just this kind of 12-month headwind on the apple side? Apple bonds sales unit [ph] have nothing to do per se with hedging.
You do the math on 80 basis points on cost of goods and can you can box the impact of the higher apple prices.
I don't want to lose people on this.
It's get a little complicated in terms of the phasing of the cost through cost of sales it gets a little complicated because we are on the LIFO method.
If you think about it we will buy these apples in the fall.
Many of them will be in the inventory carried into next year.
And so you'd say well you paid more but why is it hitting your COGS this year? Why not next year to sell both finished applesauce and the answer lies in LIFO which expenses inflation currently.
So we're going to pay more for apples.
Even when we don't sell all the applesauce we may have lowest-cost likely to have those cost in our cost of sales this year.
I tell you for your models just stick -- we've obviously put all this in our forecast it's all baked into the 2%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And I know you're not give us the guide on commodities next year but we're all going to update for next year.
It just sounds like knowing what we know today you're going to have an increase in cost of sales in the first half next year? Yes Mark I can't comment now.
We'll have color on it for you much better color I think on the next call.
It's too early for us to comment on that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then Larry on the top line actually real positive when you look over the last year or 2 beyond the Dr Pepper simply Canada Dry and ginger ale which is on-trend consumer-wise.
Is there anything else in your portfolio whether it's root beer or otherwise you think it's just an untapped opportunity that ties into this notion of indulgence and at the same time doing something that's better-for-you or at least perceived to be better-for-you something that could start to replicate the success you had with Canada Dry? I think the biggest thing Mark is we're going to stay focused on our Core 5 our spending on the Core 5.
To your points you go across the entire Core 5.
I mean some of this very positive numbers that we're seeing Sunkist come back.
But whenever we get this TEN platform out there as I mentioned earlier where we're testing it we're seeing tremendous results.
We're seeing a larger percent of the trademark than we saw in Dr Pepper TEN and our core business is growing.
So we're going to stay very focused there.
We're going to stay very focused on our allied brands.
We just continue to grow with VitaCoCo with Neuro and our other partners out there with big bread and with a high drive that had got some really nice numbers coming in.
We're also excited on not just the brands but the channels.
I mean we continue to grow in C&amp;G in our strategy there is working.
If you look at the Q2 volumes from Nielsen I mean the category was up 2.9% and we were up 4.4%.
On a year-to-date basis on volume the category is up 6.2% we were up 7.2%.
So all our programs are working the brand the package the channel.
They're just all coming together in the very excited about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Are you strategically wedded to the applesauce and apple juice business I mean just curious what it does the broader portfolio because sometimes it seems like more of a nuisance than a help? The Mott's a brand is a great brand and we think it's got a lot of legs.
In plays very strong on our better-for-you category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So do you think there's real secular growth drivers for the brand going forward? It had some hiccups we've work through these and I think we'll see it go back to more historical rates of growth.
It's been a fabulous brand for us for many years and with what the problems we had with concentrate I mean as an industry issue not just Mott's.
But whenever it grows you get a COG that 100% increase that's devastating we've got through that.
The apples sauce something that we've dealt with before.
It's always a matter of Mother Nature there early in the spring.
And so we're going to work through this and if you look at a lot of the innovation we talk about I mean in our Mott's brand our Mott's for Tots I mean it's a brand that mom is so loyal to that we'll continue our focus behind it.
We'll continue to spend behind it and we'll just going to kind of work through these bumps in the road right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
I probably know the answer to this but it seems like PepsiCo a lot more active in the foodservice channel.
When they get a new account do you automatically to go in with them like you...
Nothing is automatic.
But if it's a location that we have Dr Pepper in we have a pretty good chance of getting in there.
We work very good as partners and they know what sells good but there's nothing that's given.
Our national account sales team work together and if it make sense we're there.
The final question this morning comes from the line of Damian Witkowski with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to follow up on pricing.
I didn't understand exactly volume pricing was already in the market and then if there is a increase in the second half.
I mean would that be upside to what you were thinking right now and am I think about this wrong? Damian Marty Ellen.
In terms of our full year pricing guidance we don't need to take any further actions to achieve that full year number.
Inc.</strong> So your comment about perhaps the CSD industry taking price in the second half could be upside? It could be.
It could be.
Inc.</strong> I want to step back if you look at your categories and obviously you're about 80% of your volume comes from CSDs and it sounds to me like if you look at your 3% to 5% doubling growth even though you don't break it out between volume and price long term but it sounds to me like probably the growth is going to come mostly from or at least the non-carbs portion of your portfolio is going to grow a lot faster.
Just wondering if that's the case a? And b if you look at some of the faster growing non-carb categories energy which I guess is carb but I mean the energy is one way your participating to some extent with the growth in the industry.
I'm not sure if you're looking at any other categories that you're not in that you feel like maybe 5 years you should be? No that's kind of go back to the previous question.
But on carbs we've been consistent on this with this tough economy right now we're looking at flat to 0.5% and then mid single-digit on our non-carbs so you're correct.
As we get through the tough economic times right here we'll see probably carbs go to 0.5 to 1 and can see the non-carbs grow a little stronger.
Then what else are we looking at? We do play in energy but we plan it very strategically very local it's more up and down the Street where we have a lot higher margin on the product that we're selling.
Then our Allied brands.
I mean we're out here with VitaCoCo seeing tremendous growth with high drive with Neuro and so we're playing the those have it is what could be the next category.
So we are pretty good outlook for these new entrepreneurs to come into to get some distribution.
So we've got a team Damian that's full-time team that looks at everything that's coming out and see if it makes sense strategically to go into our portfolio for distribution.
Inc.</strong> Larry what spurred this question was thinking about Bold House [ph] and what's going on in the refrigerated juice category and a fairly small category $5 billion $6 billion out of retail.
It seems like it's growing its hybrid growth like energy but a have you looked at it? And b if you had why not I mean why not go after either with your own brand expanding or might be acquiring a brand? We've looked at all of Damian like a Bold House [ph] an example 1 of the things we look at is it's refrigerated.
We don't operate in refrigerated.
The cost for us to go in and of shipping change in our entire footprint to have something that small a percent of our mix just doesn't make any sense.
So we like to stay in our arena and fight within the ropes that we understand and we're good at.
Inc.</strong> That make sense.
And then lastly you guys have done a terrific job in a pretty tough environment since going -- being spun out of Cadbury back in May of 2008.
Focusing on your core business and returning excess cash to shareholders through buybacks and dividends and I think if you look at the stock price it's all in the chart and the outperformance is there.
But I'm wondering I mean if you look at your portfolio now do you think that being 80% CSD does it hide the potential future growth for non-CSD and have you actually looked at perhaps spinning off the non-CSD portfolio and you have a separate entity in whatever form? No we're very happy with our portfolio Damian.
Like I said we're going to see more growth there we have a lot of focus.
I think when you look at our CSDs yes we're almost 80% but I think that what stands out for us is that that 80% is flavors.
Flavors are growing.
That category is expanding so we feel we're really in planted in a sweet spot right now.
And if you look at where the population growth is going to come from within Hispanic being 50% their #1 CSDs are flavors that's what we're going to play and see a lot of our long-term growth.
A lot of people I do you see the 3% to 5%.
Our team is very confident with our per cap consumption our Hispanic our coastal markets our Snapple.
Fixing those per cap is our going to continue to do it.
I want to thank everybody for joining the call today.
And for your continued interest to the Dr Pepper Snapple group.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relations.
Carolyn you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Carolyn and good morning everyone.
I'll start this morning by saying that we continue to operate in an unpredictable and uncertain macro environment.
Consumers' wallets continue to be strained making them more cautious as we move closer to the upcoming presidential election.
In this environment providing value to our consumers retailers and bottling partners while ensuring that we drive profitable volume remains key to our strategy.
During the quarter we continued to execute disciplined pricing in the marketplace and we invested in our well-loved brands to ensure long-term sustainable brand health.
And once again Rapid Continuous Improvement produced tangible financial results including improved cash flow which we will return to our shareholders.
For the quarter bottler case sales declined 3% on 4 percentage points of price and mix.
CSD volumes declined 2% in the quarter.
Dr Pepper decreased 1% as declines on our base business were only partially offset by growth from both Dr Pepper TEN and our fountain business.
Our Core 5 brands declined 6% for the quarter as we made conscious decisions not to repeat some aggressive pricing on specific packages in certain channels from the prior year.
Hawaiian Punch declined 14% in the quarter as one of our largest retailers did not pass through our July 2011 price increase to consumers until just after Labor Day in 2011.
Snapple grew 4% for the quarter as our targeted local market expansion strategy continues to ensure that Snapple is enjoyed by consumers across the country.
Diet Half 'n Half Lemonade Iced Tea continues to gain distribution and has quickly become one of the top 4 selling SKUs in our Snapple lineup.
And the initial results from our partnership with America's Got Talent are very encouraging.
Mott's declined 10% in the quarter with juice down 12% as we again made a deliberate decision not to repeat a hot promotion at a large retailer.
Our sauce business declined 6% on price increases we took this quarter to help offset the increased cost of apples resulting from the spring freeze in the Northeast.
Year-to-date bottler case sales declined 1% on 4 percentage points of price and mix.
Our flagship Dr Pepper grew 1% on growth from Dr Pepper TEN and our fountain business.
Our Core 5 brands decreased 1%.
And in line with our expectations both Hawaiian Punch and Mott's posted volume declines of 19% and 10% respectively due to the significant pricing actions we took in mid-2011.
Our Snapple business increased 3% year-to-date.
Moving on to our financial results.
Our volume results clearly demonstrate our commitment to disciplined pricing and I'm happy to say we're seeing positive benefits from our actions on the bottom line.
On a currency neutral basis our net sales were flat for the quarter as 4 percentage points of price/mix were offset by volume declines and unfavorable segment mix specifically the net sales per case difference between our packaged beverage business and our concentrate business.
Segment operating profit increased 4% in the quarter with the benefits of price and mix and RCI productivity improvements partially offset by lower volumes and higher marketing investment of $9 million.
Reported earnings per share were $0.84 for the quarter versus $0.71 in the prior year.
Core earnings per share which excludes commodity-related gains and losses were $0.79 for the quarter versus $0.74 in the prior year.
As I said earlier we continue to invest behind our brands to keep them top of mind with consumers.
I'm pleased to say we have a solid lineup of activity for the fourth quarter that will excite consumers while giving our bottling and retail partners strong programs to execute and drive display activity.
It's game time and Dr Pepper is back owning college football season.
Each week college students of any age can enter to win $2 500 in tuition by submitting videos online to highlight how they can make an impact.
Five lucky students will be selected to compete in the tuition throws at each of the conference championship games and the winners will win $100 000 in tuition each to make their college dreams come true.
Through our multi-year ESPN and FOX partnership this campaign will reach over 100 million consumers generating over 1 billion media impressions.
And with all this excitement around football I'm thrilled to say that we partnered with the Chicago Bears to be the exclusive provider of CSDs and other beverages at Soldier Field.
Various fans are enjoying Dr Pepper and our other flavored brands while cheering on their favorite team.
This partnership is leading the significant brand activation programs in the Chicago area.
We're bringing the treat to Halloween with our Core 5 Halloween-themed 8-ounce cans and 2-liter bottles that will drive incremental displays and points of interruption at retailers across the country while providing mom an alternative solution to candy treats.
We know that music is a lifestyle fashion point for our Hispanic consumer so we're sponsoring the Latin GRAMMYs and partnering with Enrique Iglesias.
We're offering consumers a chance to attend a private performance with Enrique and tickets to the awards show in Las Vegas.
The Latin GRAMMYs has over 11 million viewers and is the #1 Latin music brand.
We'll drive local activation in key Hispanic markets with Latin GRAMMY Street Parties featuring performances by the Latin GRAMMY artists.
And we'll light up the holiday mixer season with our green bottle holiday program driving incremental display and retail activity featuring 7UP and Canada Dry.
But it's not just about creating fun flavorful beverages.
We take our social responsibilities seriously and we continue to look for ways to address the growing issues of obesity in the United States.
So 2 weeks ago in partnership with other beverage companies we announced our participation in a program in Chicago and San Antonio to roll out vending machines that provide calorie counts.
And since the launch of our Let's Play initiative we've provided millions of dollars to help build or fix up 822 playgrounds giving more than 2 million children a great place to play.
I'll close by saying that we're thrilled to see we jumped 6 points in The American Consumer Satisfaction Index this year as DPS led the beverage manufacturers with a score of 87.
With that let me turn the call over to Marty to provide further information on our financial results and our full year guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
Before I begin you'll notice that included in our press release we added reconciliations of net income to core earnings on a line item basis.
Hopefully you will find these schedules helpful when updating your models.
Now financial results.
Reported net sales for the third quarter were flat with last year as we maintained disciplined pricing actions across the company.
Combined product and package net pricing and mix were up 4 points in the quarter roughly 2 points each.
This was offset by 1 point of negative segment mix due to lower sales of finished products.
Sales volumes were down 3% in the quarter as we made decisions not to repeat some pricing and promotional activity that occurred last year with some retailers on specific packages on our Mott's and Core 5 brands.
Gross margins were up 300 basis points in the quarter increasing from 56% last year to 59% this year.
Positive price/mix increased gross margins by approximately 140 basis points.
Consistent with our comments last quarter packaging and ingredients on a constant volume mix basis were essentially flat in the quarter.
However we recorded a $7-million LIFO charge in the quarter driven primarily by the higher cost of apples.
This compares to a $4-million LIFO charge in the prior year resulting in a year-over-year reduction in gross margins of approximately 20 basis points.
Ongoing RCI productivity benefits were the primary factor offsetting this increase.
Changes in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter caused us to record $18 million of unrealized mark-to-market gains on commodity hedges with approximately $15 million in cost of goods and the rest in SG&amp;A.
This compares to an $11-million unrealized mark-to-market loss last year with approximately $9 million in cost of goods.
This favorable comparison improved reported gross margins by about 160 basis points.
SG&amp;A for the quarter excluding depreciation increased by $2 million.
Marketing investments were up $9 million and there were planned cost increases in field sales and service resources as well as transportation cost increases due to higher fuel prices.
These increases were offset by ongoing RCI productivity gains and the change in unrealized gains on commodity hedges of $5 million included in SG&amp;A.
Depreciation expense decreased this quarter by $2 million.
Reported operating income for the quarter was $308 million compared to $261 million last year.
Excluding the impact of mark-to-market gains and losses in both years operating margin represented 19% of sales this year an increase of 120 basis points from 17.8% last year.
Moving below the operating line.
Net interest expense was $31 million $2 million above last year as we previously refinanced some low floating rate debt.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 36.3% below our full year guidance of 37% as we captured some tax planning benefits in the quarter which were already considered in our full year guidance.
Moving on to cash flow.
Year-to-date cash from operating activities was $264 million after $531 million of taxes we paid earlier in the year on the Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements.
Capital spending year-to-date was $143 million compared to $148 million last year.
This brings year-to-date free cash flow adjusted for the taxes on the Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements to $652 million a net income of $459 million.
Leveraging RCI we continue to focus on working capital and CapEx management and our cash conversion cycle has improved by 6 days well ahead of our goal for the year.
Working capital management specifically trade receivables inventories and accounts payable have been a source of $73 million of cash flow this year compared to $38-million outflow last year.
Through September total distributions to our shareholders were $475 million with $262 million in share repurchases and $213 million in dividends.
Before I review our full year guidance let me provide you with a brief update on RCI.
19 months into our continuous improvement journey we couldn't be more proud of our results and the enthusiasm of our people to eliminate waste in every process.
To recap some of our achievements we've seen broad engagement across the entire organization with over 2 800 of our people participating in over 200 Kaizen events occurring across 60 locations.
We have a full calendar of improvement activities and we're beginning to make good progress across our DSD business which is a big part of our RCI focus this year.
We've closed 10 outside warehouses and reduced miles traveled by 1 million miles.
This not only reduces cost but it's also good for the environment.
We've significantly reduced inventory levels and sustained them through the summer selling season while improving customer service levels as we get better at producing products closer to customer order cycles.
We've now identified over $103 million in annualized 12-month cash productivity and we're beginning to demonstrate meaningful improvements in both operating profit and cash flow which you saw in our results this quarter.
With the progress we've made thus far I'm confident that we'll achieve our goal of at least $150 million of cash productivity over the first 3 years of this journey.
Moving on to 2012 full year guidance.
As Larry said the macroeconomic environment remains challenging driving cautious and unpredictable consumer behavior.
We remain focused on executing our strategy to deliver profitable volume while investing in our brands and our business over the long term.
Net sales in the third quarter came in below our earlier expectations but profit did not.
And we continue to invest behind our brands.
You should note that on a year-to-date basis through the 6th of October and as reported by Nielsen our CSD volume share was up 0.3 points notwithstanding the difficult CSD volume environment resulting from both higher price points and a difficult macro environment.
So we believe we're making the right decisions across the portfolio and the channels.
Considering our third quarter results and where we are year-to-date we now expect approximately 2% net sales growth for the year but we are maintaining our full year core EPS guidance range of $2.90 to $2.98.
On a total company basis we expect net pricing and mix to be up about 3% to 4% for the full year consistent with our year-to-date results with sales volumes down 1% to 2%.
For the full year we still expect packaging and ingredients to increase total cost of goods sold by 2% on a constant volume mix basis.
As a reminder cost will be inflationary in the fourth quarter due to the higher cost of apples.
We expect marketing investments to be up $10 million to $15 million for the full year as we execute programs to drive relevance and awareness with our consumers.
This will result in a decrease in the fourth quarter which last year included $10 million for the launch of Dr Pepper TEN.
We continue to experience higher field labor costs including higher health and wellness costs which maybe a little more pronounced in the fourth quarter.
Higher transportation expenses both in terms of fuel cost for our company-owned fleet as well as higher lane rates from our common carriers will add approximately $13 million to our cost base in 2012 with the largest impact occurring in the fourth quarter.
Net interest expense will now be around 4.6% on our $2.7 billion of debt and we continue to expect our full year tax rate to be approximately 37%.
With the productivity benefits we're seeing from RCI we now expect capital spending to be in the 3.5% to 3.75% range on net sales.
And with higher free cash flow we now expect to repurchase approximately $400 million of our common stock subject to market conditions further demonstrating our commitment to return all excess cash to our shareholders over time.
With that let me turn the call back to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with a few thoughts.
As we said repeatedly this morning we remain committed to our strategy of driving profitable volume and sales growth while ensuring return on every dollar we invest.
We remain committed to always delivering value to our consumers while ensuring that we're investing wisely in this business and our brands for the long term.
As we knew it would RCI is delivering tangible results in our financial performance and cash flow improving profitability every quarter and creating a sustainable improved operating platform for the long-term.
And finally we remain committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders as we've demonstrated with our increased share repurchase commitment for the year.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Two questions I guess both related to the soft drinks business which is -- and I apologize if you mentioned this in the prepared remarks.
In terms of looking at the very strong pricing on the concentrate business can you talk a little bit about what drove that? Was that a reduction in the promotional programs that were referred to in the prepared remarks? And then also on the share stuff your shares are up year-to-date but there definitely seems to have been a falloff in the share performance over the past couple of months.
Let's say the past sort of 3 or 4 months it appears as though Pepsi is maybe ceding a less share in the category.
Can you talk a little bit about your share dynamics? And if you have seen a little bit of a falloff here what are the key steps you can do to -- in order to get those back up? So I'll take the share piece and let Marty kind of pick up the piece on the pricing and what you saw there.
But on the share we're very happy with where we're see the shares.
I said in the prepared remarks we're up for the quarter 0.3 points.
We also mentioned that there was some activity last year that we ran that we decided we just were not going to do again this year in some of the large retailers which I think as you see the financial performance was the right decision.
There was a couple of 4-weeks periods that we were a little lighter but we knew that because of the activity.
But I think everybody has seen in the last they're coming back and we feel very confident about going forward.
John it's Marty.
The first part of your question I believe went to pricing in concentrate.
We've not taken any further pricing in concentrate since the beginning-of-year price increase.
Research Division</strong> I guess what I was looking for and I apologize for this but -- hold on a second.
If I look at the gap in beverage concentrates volume versus beverage concentrates revenue what's driving that sort of -- that big gap there? Well if you're looking at volume and revenue you'd be looking at the effect on a per case basis of the price increase from last year.
It would be up because of the price increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And was the promotional I guess -- you discussed the promotional impacts.
Was that having -- was that a benefit this quarter as well when you talk about some of the reduced volume due to not repeating some of the promotions from last year? That would not be on the concentrate side John.
No that would be on our packaged beverages.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So the first question on your Dr Pepper -- the base brands.
So if the overall volume on Dr Pepper was down 1% how much was the base down? The base -- do you mean the total Dr Pepper? Research Division</strong> No.
You said the total Dr Pepper was down 1% but you had growth in Dr Pepper TEN but the declines in the base business so how much would the base be down? The base was down approximately 2%.
Research Division</strong> 2% okay.
And just your sort of general view of the Dr Pepper trademark.
Obviously the overall industry is a little bit soft as pricing went through but you've been investing a lot into the brand marketing.
So when you kind of assess the base branding down around 2% how would you sort of characterize that performance? Do you think there's some cannibalization from Dr -- the DP TEN brands? And as you think about going forward sort of -- what sort of volume expectation do you think that we can see from the base Dr Pepper brand? Well the base Judy was in line with the industry so it didn't really concern us that much.
We're still seeing -- we're still very positive on Dr Pepper TEN.
It's a new brand.
Launches take a long time.
People have to have patience.
You guys have heard me say that before.
But I think we're very happy with the base.
When we look at what we're having with the -- comparing to the industry we're happy.
With what we've got in place for the fourth quarter with football coming up we're very bullish on the brand.
We're already seeing some -- with college football I mean Dr Pepper owns it and so it's really playing great -- paying great benefits for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Larry when you talk about kind of the choppy macro environment just in terms of the industry generally I sort of look at the pricing in the industry and the impact on volume.
It doesn't seem like the elasticity is really that much worse than what we've seen historically.
So when you talk about kind of the choppy macro are there any signs that you're seeing that makes you a little bit more nervous about what's going on with the consumer? Or is this just kind of...
Not at all Judy.
We continue to remain cautiously optimistic about the U.S.
economy.
I think that we might have been -- we haven't seen it go down but I think we might have been expecting a little bit more of an improvement.
I think soon as we get the -- as soon as we get this election over I think we're going to see a lot of different attitudes.
I think there's some fear out there.
We're seeing a little bit of the low-end being challenged out there.
But as we mentioned in our prepared remarks we've got a lot of programs put together right now for the balance of the year to deliver value to those consumers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally just in terms of your pricing guidance -- so I think you said 2% to 2.5% for the full year.
Now it sounds like it's closer to 3% to 4%.
Can you just comment on what's giving you confidence about sort of better pricing going forward? And do you think that that sort of continues into 2013 even in a more moderating commodity environment? Well I think our confidence on it is just that -- as we've seen across the industry the discipline that's out there.
Everybody's been very disciplined.
We're not seeing any knee-jerk reactions which I think are very positive for the industry.
So we feel that being a part of that that we're confident where our pricing will be.
And then in 2013 we're hoping it gets back to where it's a little more normal where we can look at some of the inflation in cost and -- where maybe you get back into 1.5% 2% of pricing.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a question the operating cash flow very strong again this quarter and I think if we kind of strip out the effect of the tax payments in both years it's -- the annualized run rate looks like it's -- or cash from operations running could be somewhere in the -- close to the $900-million level on a normalized basis.
So I guess 2 things.
One the improved performance is it sustainable? And then second is there something that could actually cause it to accelerate further so that the cash productivity actually increasing from this level? And then finally just what you're doing with that cash -- it's great to see the share repurchase increase now but just thoughts on dividend increases versus share repurchase as you think about your cash flow usage going forward.
Okay.
Bryan it's Marty.
Thank you.
Well let me say I wish we could sustain operating cash flow at $900 million but of course we can't create increased cash flow from working capital indefinitely which is why I wanted to call out this morning in my prepared remarks that year-over-year it was over a $100-million change with a big positive contribution this year.
You could see line item by line item where it's coming from.
Our inventories are down.
They've been down through the season which is not traditional in this industry.
That's my way of communicating that lean processes are working but we can't count on working capital to be a source of cash indefinitely.
And I'll remind everybody that we focus on inventories as much for cash flow as we do because of all the attendant costs that go with inventory: warehousing transportation handling costs break shrink.
These are a lot of cost items in the DSD business.
And when you have less inventory those costs go down.
That's a big part of our RCI push in supply chain.
Yes and we're taking up our share repurchases because we have -- we're coming in better than we thought cash-wise and that's been our commitment.
With respect to the allocation of free cash flow between share repurchases and dividends I've told many of you when I've been out on the road that we like our balance now but believe that we have the ability to raise our dividend over time to create a track record as a company that is able to do that.
I cannot speak for the board.
The board will take this subject up in earnest once a year as they do in the early part of 2013.
I would say that we believe that even today we have the ability to take the dividend up even beyond the level of any near-term earnings increase.
And so I will leave you with that.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to I guess Larry and Marty just reopen a question -- a conversation we've had together before about your top line guidance.
As you know we think you're sometimes a bit ambitious with regards to your top line outlook and that risks detracting from the bottom line and cash return progress I think you're making.
So really 2 questions.
First what's the source of the top line disappointment in Q3 relative to where you thought it would be in late July? And does it make you at all rethink that long term that go-forward algorithm because it does seem at least like your revenue guidance for the remainder of this year has shifted materially towards pricing relative to volume which I think you formerly expected to be up a little bit and now it's going to be down 1 to 2.
So just how are you thinking about the top line with respect to -- versus where you were in late July? Yes.
I think from what I said earlier Steve from late July we saw some promotions and some activity from 1 year ago in certain packages and certain retail customers that we decided against that we were not going to repeat those.
So that's what's kind of drove down for the third quarter.
My confidence in where we are on our numbers is that we continue to see the flavors growing in the category and becoming a larger part of the CSD category each year.
And where our brands are positioned we're going to be able to capture that.
We also look at it and say this economy is not going to stay the way it is right now; it's going to improve.
We feel very good on that.
It didn't improve quite as much as we thought.
But I think after the election we'll see things start to turn around and maybe a little more confidence out there and just the biggest piece though is the flavors.
I think if there's another piece besides the flavored CSDs we know we got hit hard with some price increases with Hawaiian Punch and Mott's.
We had a very large retailer that did not take their increases until after Labor Day so basically mid-September.
And so -- well there's going to be upside there just by lapping that type of pricing from a year ago.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess -- and second if I could I guess a question on cash -- going back to the question that Bryan raised.
And more specifically if we think about DPS as a $3 earner with improving working capital and decreasing CapEx needs why shouldn't DPS be a $2 dividend payer at this point? Steve I'm not going to comment on where the level of dividend could be.
It's a board matter.
But as I said we could pay a higher level of dividend than we do today with no further positive change in our business model.
And so the board will certainly take that up.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question going back to beverage concentrate I think the question that John raised.
As you said volumes have been trending down.
They're like 2% year-to-date and that's contrasted against the flattish to slightly positive BCS volume trend in CSDs and in brand Dr Pepper specifically so could you talk about what's driven that disconnect down 2% in concentrate versus the BCS numbers and how you expect those numbers to trend going forward sales volume versus BCS in CSDs? Steve it's Marty.
You have a lot of volatility when you compare the 2 numbers quarter-to-quarter.
So if you go -- if you were to cycle through the year well it's the fourth quarter is traditionally characterized by various bottlers buying ahead if you will of the year-end price increase.
So you'll always have more shipments than BCS in the fourth quarter.
That -- it tends to turn around in the first quarter as you get sell-through on that.
Then you typically though do lag through the summer selling season and then towards the end of the year you turn back around again.
So I think you have to look at the whole cycle and add them all up.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> How do you think about the sort of 3% to 5% sales growth rate over the longer term to -- both for your company and for the industry? Bill it's Marty.
As I've said before and I think Larry just sort of gave all the background.
If you look at the composition of our business roughly 80% CSDs 20% non-carbs and you look at where we're positioned in the flavored category as opposed to colas our long-term view in 80% -- in that 80% of our business those CSDs in sort of a weaker environment is only 0 to 0.5 points of growth.
Now it's been more challenging this year but 0 to 0.5 points.
Maybe upwards of 1 point in a better environment.
As Larry just said in the 20% portion of our business the non-carbs where Mott's and Hawaiian Punch are the lead the brands at least on the top line they've been specifically challenged.
You would not predict those kinds of trends going forward.
So we've just got to lap that.
And -- but longer term you look at the juice category -- I forgot Snapple.
Of course Snapple has been a big growth area.
There is tea -- juice and tea.
If you look at those categories you have no reason to believe that they're not at least mid-single digit if not a little higher growth over the long term.
You do a weighted-average maybe you get 1 point to 1.5 points of overall company volume.
And now you can figure 2 to 2.5 points of price and/or mix and you're within the range.
Do we believe the top end of the range is challenging? Certainly.
But you could easily get there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just in terms of rationality in the marketplace I mean if these volume trends persist do you think everyone's going to kind of stay rational especially as the pricing starts to lap because I think it's kind of uncertain whether or not those elasticity curves still hold? I truly do believe they will.
I think it's -- we went so long without taking any price and there's not too many items that you can see in the grocery channel that have had the pricing -- the flat pricing we've had in CSDs.
The CSDs at the price we have today Bill are still a great value.
And it's our job to show people that's still a value it's still a great taste it's fun it's refreshing.
And I feel very bullish that the pricing will stick.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions for you.
So first Marty with respect to your EPS guidance for the year -- so you're sticking with the $2.90 and $2.98.
But if my math is right that leaves you about a $25-million $30-million band or so in operating profit for the fourth quarter which seems pretty wide.
I was hoping you could kind of walk us through the puts and takes there based on where we are today.
And then if you could comment on what you're seeing -- based on where we are today your COGS inflation for fiscal 2013.
So let me -- I'll cover some of that.
I'm not going to spend too much time trying to model you down all the way down to your numbers and your models.
I simply can't do that.
I gave you the top line guidance for the full year in my prepared remarks COGS up 2%.
And again we would have been better but for the impact of the apple price increase because of the freeze.
I -- we said this number before so I'll give it to you again.
On a full year basis that impact in terms of cost of goods -- and because we're on LIFO we're expensing the cost actually in many cases before we sell the applesauce but that's the way it works.
About $18 million of higher COGS which is in our 2% year-over-year increase.
I would tell you about half of that was in the third quarter.
Expect the other half in the fourth quarter.
I talked in my prepared remarks about SG&amp;A expenses.
We have -- all year have had planned labor costs in our field organization sales and service people who we think are pretty important to helping us drive the business and that's not an area where we cut expenses.
Our industry lobbying fees are up not surprising given the regulatory environment and we talked about that being up $5 million.
And of course marketing in the fourth quarter which will be positive in terms of a year-over-year comparison because we spent a lot more last year when we rolled out Dr Pepper TEN.
The other thing I think -- as I said in my prepared remarks it was $13 million in transportation costs for the full year mostly due to higher fuel costs.
And you can expect about half of that in the fourth quarter.
That's about all I can cover.
Research Division</strong> And then if you wouldn't mind Marty could you comment also on your outlook today for input inflation in COGS for '13? It's too early.
We're still putting our plans together and we'll comment on that when we're prepared to talk about 2013 guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Larry on the Dr Pepper brand and the Dr Pepper trademark can you: a just tell us -- it sounds like you think the brand gets back to growth; and b talk a little bit about kind of what you're seeing that helps you achieve that.
And one thing that the data seems to suggest I'm not sure this is the case is that the Dr Pepper TEN introduction helped late last year helped early this year.
It's not proving quite as beneficial as the year wears on.
So I'm interested in your thoughts in the opportunity for innovation for the brand but again just more fundamentally how you think you're going to get this brand back to growth from a total trademark standpoint.
Right right.
Well like I said earlier Mark on Dr Pepper I mean we are -- for the third quarter it was in line with the industry maybe a little better so we were not that concerned about that.
The programs we have in place right now we'd look at it and say that with football and everything in place Dr Pepper TEN is -- so I think people sometimes look at it and think TEN is like an extension to Dr Pepper.
It's not.
Our TEN is a new platform it's a new launch it's a new brand.
And so those brands take time and they take patience.
We're not seeing a lot of cannibalism on the Dr Pepper from the TEN so that's very encouraging for us but it takes time to educate people and get people understanding what TEN is.
Also whenever you look at our football programs I mean we've got the football programs out and we're including TEN in those also.
And on the Dr Pepper TEN our repeat rates are growing just continue to grow.
They're making us very pleased with what we're seeing come in on those.
And the number of consumers that are coming into TEN that left CSDs.
We get them back into CSDs and whether it's TEN or whatever they pick up we're getting them back into the category.
We're seeing the same thing with our test on our TEN and the Core products.
So we feel we have something there that gives -- makes us very bullish.
As Marty mentioned 80% of our business is CSDs.
That's where we live and die.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So you feel good about that particular brand -- or that DP TEN and...
Dr Pepper and DP TEN yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But I'm still trying to kind of connect the dots here because the trademark -- and I realize the category is tough and the consumer environment is tough but I think you still have a long-term view that the trademark grows.
And I'm just wondering what you're seeing that at least I'm not seeing that gives you that view.
Well there -- I guess I look at it in one -- one quarter doesn't make me change my views.
We've had some tough times.
We're flat year-to-date.
The quarter was a little tougher quarter than normal but we also have a little insight to what we have going with our programs and what's going to happen in the fourth.
Whenever we kind of go through our 2013 guidance we'll give you guys some idea of the programs we have on all of our brands at that time.
But we really have nothing for us to show us to have any type of alarm on our brand Dr Pepper.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then if I could change topics.
The RCI is doing well.
You've taken down the CapEx view for the year.
Should we infer that this improvement in the CapEx view is a sign of kind of the potential for the CapEx as a percentage of sales longer term to be a little lower than what you've guided to in the past? Yes.
I would say Mark you're right.
Now yes.
And we will give you CapEx guidance going forward.
I -- we -- when we went public it was clear the initial CapEx spending truthfully included some investments that you wouldn't expect to continue annually in your CapEx: building out the supply chain IT systems things we've talked about in the past.
I do think we're starting to guide to a level where we ought to be.
I'd be disappointed if we can't sustain it.
I can't commit to it of course.
But clearly when you look at the benefits of RCI and you think about physical capital just simply warehouses we don't need more warehouses.
We might need a real estate department to start selling the empty ones.
But I know -- so I don't know how low it can get.
We're trending lower year-to-date.
It's -- we're running the numbers year-to-date about 3.2 but we still think it's going to be in that range and we're going to be rigorous on capital.
We are going to be really rigorous on capital and that will flow through the discussions Larry and I will be having through this planning season with our operating managers.
And when we come out of that we'll share our views.
Your next question comes from the line of Damian Witkowski with Gabelli &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Looking at volume in CSDs in particular I'm just curious.
Is there in terms of channels sequentially any one that got better or worse whether it be immediate channel or take-home? No I think it's pretty consistent.
We continue to grow in convenient and gas.
We're very happy with our up and down the street.
Our cold drink programs are paying benefits.
I think if you look across the large format I mean we've performed in line or exceeded what the industry did.
That might be where there might be a little more -- you see a little more of the consumer stress.
But once we look at convenient and gas and our quick serve we're very happy.
Our Fountain foodservice continues to grow.
Our 20-ounce continues to grow.
And our guys continue placing more cold drink accounts and equipment out there.
Inc.</strong> Is there a way to actually -- do you think there was any negative effect from package sizes decreasing? And again just -- you can go to some market these days and buy Dr Pepper in a much smaller can.
Is there a way to call that out if that had any negative impact? No.
We want that.
It gives a broad choice in there.
I think some of the smaller packages might have brought some people in that were not buying the product before.
We are predominantly 20-ounce.
But I think now that we have the pack choices out there we're picking up some new users.
So we don't have anything showing us that that had any impact on -- a negative impact.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then if you look at non-carbs and Mott's in particular and Hawaiian Punch you had to take tremendous pricing obviously and some of it didn't get passed along until now but I mean is there any discussion about maybe repackaging that as well in terms of making it a little bit more affordable? Are customers are really trading out of the category altogether because it's too expensive? Or are they going to a private label brand? No.
I think yes there's 2 very different animals there between Hawaiian Punch and Mott's.
Of course with Mott's and then the apple juice the big player there is private label but it always has been.
Like I said in my comments we made some decisions not to copy some promotions we did last year.
And after lapping this pricing there's a positive uptick there no matter what just on the pricing.
But we've also got a lot of great programs put together on it.
Then over to Hawaiian Punch the Hawaiian Punch is the biggest one.
I mean the lap is just now starting so I mean fourth quarter is a positive there.
But we've also done some items with Hawaiian Punch.
Instead of just having the one price point on a gallon out there we've got 32-ounce packages out there.
We've got the 10-ounce that's in a 6-pack and 8-pack.
We have a 12-pack we just did with a shrink wrap that's fairly new into the market and we're seeing great take on that.
So that makes us very bullish on Hawaiian Punch coming back to being the great sweet cheap treat for mom and we've given her several different ways to buy it.
Inc.</strong> And then lastly just on the gross margin the last 160 basis points of benefit I didn't quite catch what was behind that.
I know that pricing and mix were about 140 basis points.
Could you just go over that again? Damian it's the commodity -- the mark-to-market impact on commodity gains and losses.
And I don't know if you've had a chance to go through the whole press release but if you go into the schedules in the back of the press release where we've taken these factors out to get to our core earnings you'll -- and you take a calculator to that page you'll be able to get to the gross margin without that impact.
Inc.</strong> That's perfect.
And then just lastly is it too early to talk about China and apple supply for -- I guess when does pricing get set? In November? Any idea how that's looking for the concentrate -- apple concentrate? It's too early.
Your final question this morning comes from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> All my questions have been answered.
Well thanks for joining us on the call today.
And we continue to be very happy with your interest in Dr Pepper Snapple and we'll see you all next quarter.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Please disconnect at this time and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relations.
Carolyn you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investor Relations page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Carolyn and good morning everyone.
As I'm sure you read in this morning's press release we had a solid finish to 2012 a year marked with economic uncertainty and cautious consumer spending.
And today we announced a 12% increase to our quarterly dividend to $0.38 per share our fifth increase since becoming a public company further demonstrating our commitment to return our excess cash free cash to our shareholders over time.
Before I review results for the quarter let me recap some of our wins in 2012.
Our team once again persevered in a highly competitive environment and executed against our very focused strategy.
We increased distribution and availability on our key brands and packages with CSDs ACV up 0.5 in grocery and up 0.2 in convenience.
In grocery Mott's juice posted a gain of 1.8 points and Snapple gained 4.3 points.
And while shelf space remains tight our Snapple 16-ounce glass package gained 6.7 points in the convenience channel.
We also increased our trial and sampling occasions with just over 45 000 new fountain availabilities and 14 000 net new cold drink equipment placements giving more consumers the opportunity to enjoy our flavorful brands when they are away from home.
We invested behind our well-loved brands with market investments up $21 million or 5% versus 2011.
And our marketing team continues to raise the bar ensuring that our program not only builds awareness and brand equity but also drives consumer purchases.
With a full year support behind Dr Pepper TEN the Dr Pepper trademark grew dollar share by 0.2 in Nielsen channels.
Dr Pepper TEN now holds a 0.3 share of the CSD category and more importantly has brought new and lapsed consumers back to the category.
Through its first year of launch over 55% of Dr Pepper TEN's volume was incremental to the CSD category and it grew Dr Pepper trademark household penetration by 3 million households.
Based on this early success we introduced TEN versions of 7UP Sunkist A&amp;W Canada Dry and RC in select test markets and I'll talk about those results in just a few moments.
We launched Snapple Diet Half 'n Half Lemonade Iced Tea and it quickly became the fourth fastest selling product in the Snapple portfolio.
And we continue to engage our consumers in new and innovative ways.
Our Core 5 Facebook credits program was the first of its kind in the marketplace and we made every consumer of our Core 5 20-ounce bottles a winner by placing Facebook credits under the caps which they can redeem for music games and more.
We partnered with America's Got Talent the #1-rated summer show and gave our consumers a chance to win a VIP trip to see the talent finale.
And we owned the college football season giving deserving students a chance to win $100 000 in tuition to make their college dreams come true.
Rapid Continuous Improvement is becoming the foundation of how we operate and I'm pleased with the level of engagement we're seeing among our employees.
Since launching RCI over 3 000 of our people have participated in over 200 kaizen events and we've identified over $116 million of annualized cash productivity.
And finally we returned $684 million to our shareholders in 2012 with $400 million in share repurchase and $284 million in dividends.
Now moving on to results.
For the quarter bottler case sales were flat on 2 percentage points of price and mix.
Dr Pepper declined 1% as we cycled the national rollout of Dr Pepper TEN in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Our Core 5 brands increased 3% led by an 8% increase in Canada Dry and low single-digit increases in Sunkist and A&amp;W.
7UP was flat and Sun Drop declined.
Hawaiian Punch decreased 8% while Mott's returned to growth posting a 2% increase for the quarter.
Snapple increased 1% in the quarter.
However sales were negatively impacted by Hurricane Sandy in the Northeast Snapple's heartland which we estimate negatively impacted Snapple's growth in the quarter by approximately 3%.
All other brands increased 2% for the quarter led by a 34% increase in Clamato and an 8% in Peafiel which were partially offset by declines in Welch's.
For the full year bottler case sales declined 1% on 4 percentage points of price and mix.
Dr Pepper was flat for the year as growth from Dr Pepper TEN and the fountain business was offset by declines on the base business.
Our Core 5 brands were also flat for the year as gains in Canada Dry were offset by double-digit decline in Sun Drop and declines in 7UP and Sunkist.
Hawaiian Punch decreased 17% and Mott's declined 7% as both brands cycled price increases through the third quarter and the second quarter respectively.
Snapple grew 3% for the year lapping 7% growth on new product and packaging innovation.
All other brands were flat for the year.
On a currency neutral basis our net sales increased 1% for the quarter reflecting 2 percentage points of price mix partially offset by lower volumes.
Segment operating profit increased 5% for the quarter with revenue growth of favorable legal reserve comparison ongoing productivity improvements and lower market investment partially offset by planned labor and benefit increases and a $6 million increase in our LIFO inventory provision primarily to the higher prices we had to pay for apples.
For the year segment operating profit increased 3% as net sales growth of 2% and ongoing productivity improvements were partially offset by higher packaging and ingredient cost planned increases in labor and benefits and a $21 million increase in marketing investments.
Core EPS was $0.82 for the quarter and $2.92 for the year a 2% increase over 2011.
Now let's spend a few moments talking about our 2013 priorities and plans.
It's no surprise consumers are becoming more health conscious every day.
But when purchasing beverages taste still reigns.
That's why we created the TEN platform.
It gives consumers the same great taste and mouthfeel of a regular soft drink but with only 10 calories per 12-ounce serving.
Said another way you can get both.
It's imperative that we bring new and lapsed consumers and excitement back to the CSD category so we're launching TEN versions of 7UP Sunkist A&amp;W Canada Dry and RC nationally this year.
We believe these great-tasting products together with strong marketing and in-store activity will help reenergize the category.
We'll invest heavily behind this critical platform which includes Dr Pepper TEN with brand investments associated with TEN expected to exceed $30 million in 2013.
And we'll engage consumers through all media channels with meaningful equity building communications.
We'll continue to focus investments to develop key low per cap markets behind brands such as Dr Pepper Canada Dry and Snapple.
Execution is the heart of this business.
And through our third-party bottling partners and our own DSD we will strive for excellence gaining incremental displays points of interruption while ensuring that we always have the right product and the right package at the right price.
Growing consumption in single serve remains key to our goal of growing per caps over the long term and we will continue to increase fountain availabilities and make profitable cold drink equipment places -- placements ensuring that consumers can enjoy our flavorful brands at work and at play.
We'll increase our focus on winning with Hispanics capitalizing on their preference for flavor with strong national and local programming and a new feet on the street team dedicated solely to retail execution and local community involvement and activation.
And as I said earlier I'm pleased with our employees' engagement in RCI and I'm very proud of our accomplishments to date.
Marty will tell you more about the next phase in our RCI journey in just a few minutes.
I said earlier that we must reenergize the CSD category and the TEN platform can do just that.
In test markets over 7% of the volume from the Core 4 and RC trademarks came from TEN and 40% of TEN's dollar sales were incremental to the CSD category.
I think you'll agree those are compelling results.
We'll support this critical platform launch with a multiyear marketing program and strong activation in-store.
Our media programming includes national and local TV radio online and out-of-home.
Giving consumers the opportunity to taste these products is key so we'll give away over 1 million cans across the country and have targeted couponing programs to stimulate trial.
Our in-store merchandising and point-of-sale will be supported with shopper programs and our breakthrough graphics will help consumers easily identify and understand the platform.
We know we have a winner here.
What's required is patience because changing consumption habits takes time.
And TEN is not all we have going on.
We're celebrating what makes each one of those a kind with Dr Pepper "/1" campaign showcasing unique individuals and highlighting what makes them one of a kind.
And for the first time the campaign will feature both regular and Diet Dr Pepper.
Dr Pepper once again will be the proud sponsor of ACMAs featuring Luke Bryan and we'll give consumers a chance to win a trip to Las Vegas to walk the red carpet with him.
The program will feature the entire trademark and will help drive incremental displays at retail.
We'll connect with the Hispanic consumer through our partnership with Lucha Libre a popular wrestling association with strong Mexican heritage.
Our Core 5 Facebook credits programs was a success last year driving above-category growth on regular 20-ounce bottles and adding more than 4 million new fans across our brands' Facebook pages.
So we're repeating the program in 2013 but making it even easier for consumers to redeem their credits with new mobile functionality.
We're driving our Diet portfolio too with a national FSI drop and merchandising kits featuring our better-for-you products.
Speaking of better-for-you our real Ginger Canada Dry ads will be airing in the first half helping to drive continued gains on the trademark.
Capitalizing on the success of Snapple Diet Half 'n Half we're launching a regular version nationally and integrating it with our "Win nothing instantly!" under the cap promotion that gives consumers the chance to win no rent or no bills.
And we'll continue to drive distribution and availability of our allied brands such as Vita Coco and Fiji which are leaders in their category allowing us to compete in adjacent and growing categories.
Combined these 2 brands grew 21% in 2012 and there's still plenty of runway there.
I'm sure you can see why I'm excited about 2013.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through some of our financial results and our 2013 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
With respect to financial results reported net sales for the fourth quarter were up approximately 2 points with price and mix up roughly 1 point each while foreign currency added just less than 1 point.
This was partially offset by a 1 point decline in sales volumes with third-party bottlers purchasing less concentrate ahead of our January 1 price increase than they did last year and the effect of lapping certain favorable trade accrual adjustments in our Package Beverages segment last year.
Reported gross margins were up 50 basis points increasing from 58.7% last year to 59.2% this year.
Net pricing increased gross margins by approximately 20 basis points and ongoing RCI productivity benefits improved gross margins by about 40 basis points.
With regard to mark-to-market accounting for commodities we recorded a $1 million unrealized mark-to-market loss in the quarter all of this in SG&amp;A.
This compares to a $7 million unrealized mark-to-market loss last year with approximately $8 million in cost of goods offset by a $1 million gain in SG&amp;A.
The net effect of these items improved reported gross margins by approximately 50 basis points.
The higher cost of apples which we highlighted on our third quarter update together with an increase in our year-end inventory of apples so we can meet future customer demand required us to record an $11 million LIFO charge in the quarter.
This compares to a $5 million charge in the prior year resulting in a year-over-year reduction in gross margins of approximately 40 basis points.
Lower volumes further reduced gross margins by another 20 basis points.
Reported SG&amp;A excluding depreciation increased by $2 million for the quarter.
Planned increases in field sales and service resources were offset by a favorable legal provision comparison.
Marketing investments were lower by $6 million as we cycled the Dr Pepper TEN launch last year.
Moving below the operating line.
Depreciation expense for the quarter declined by $2 million and reported operating income increased by $21 million from $271 million in the prior year to $292 million this year.
Net interest expense was $30 million or $2 million above last year.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 35.4%.
This was better than our previous expectation as we captured some additional state tax benefits.
Moving on to cash flow.
For the year cash from operating activities was $458 million including the $531 million of taxes we paid earlier in the year on the Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements.
Capital spending was $193 million down $22 million from last year.
This brings free cash flow adjusted for the taxes paid on the Pepsi and Coke licensing agreements to $796 million a net income of $629 million providing strong testament to our early RCI win.
More specifically RCI enabled us to achieve a 5-day improvement in our cash conversion cycle for the year.
And trade working capital defined as trade receivables inventories and trade payables was a $63 million source of cash for the year compared to a $56 million use of cash last year.
We remain very committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders over time as we further demonstrated this morning with our announcement of a 12% increase to our quarterly dividend rate.
For the year our total distributions to shareholders were $684 million with $400 million in share repurchases and $284 million in dividends.
Before I review our 2013 guidance let me take a moment to provide you with an update on RCI.
2 years ago we began the journey towards creating a sustainable continuous improvement foundation across the entire organization.
The core of this operating model is rooted in the methodologies of Lean and Six Sigma with a relentless focus on eliminating waste in every process while constantly providing value to our customers and consumers.
And as Larry already shared we've had some great wins during the early phases of this journey with improvements not only in our operational metrics and financial results but more importantly with improved customer service levels.
For the past 2 years we focused on getting the organization engaged.
Through kaizen events we've introduced our people to the concepts tools and resources of RCI.
And through these events they've learned first-hand that breakthrough change is possible and it can be accomplished rapidly.
As we progress to the next phase of our RCI journey we are now beginning to embed our RCI management process.
Led by a practice we're calling goal deployment and supported by a data-driven analytical and very team-oriented problem-solving structure which we're calling the corrective action process we will cultivate a lean mindset in our senior leaders and the entire organization while aligning the business around a common set of metrics.
Heavy emphasis in 2013 will be placed on the core activities within DSD: warehousing delivery merchandising cold drink and certain field marketing activities.
We'll continue with a host of other activities around the company as well.
While we don't spend much time discussing our results in Mexico we're proud of the results they've achieved.
You only have to look at the operating margin trends of our LAB segment over the last few years to get a sense of the value RCI has brought to them.
And finally with the $116 million of cash productivity already achieved I remain confident that we'll achieve at least $150 million of cash productivity over the first 3 years.
Now moving on to 2013 full year guidance.
The macroeconomic environment remains challenging with tax increases and higher health care costs weighing on consumer discretionary spending.
Against this backdrop we remain focused on executing our strategy to build our brands drive execution excellence and continue to develop our RCI capabilities.
We believe our 2013 plans should enable us to grow net sales approximately 3%.
On a total company basis we expect combined price and mix to be up about 2% to 2.5% the majority of which is mix but also includes some carryover pricing from 2012 as well as our January 1 concentrate price increase.
Sales volume growth is expected to be 0.5 to 1 point with greater contribution from our non-carb portfolio.
Moving on to cost of goods.
Considering our hedged positions and current market prices for our unhedged positions we expect packaging and ingredients to increase total cost of goods by approximately 2% on a constant volume mix basis.
Almost half of this increase is due to the higher cost of apples while the remainder is primarily PET corn and paperboard.
While diesel rates are expected to be slightly lower in 2013 this savings is more than offset by higher lane rates from our common carriers and a regulatory change in Mexico which lowered the amount of weight that is allowed per load.
Altogether these changes are expected to add approximately $6 million to our cost base in 2013.
Higher field labor costs including health and welfare will increase total people-related cost by approximately 2.5% or $25 million.
Productivity benefits from RCI will offset a portion of these increases.
And as we've said bringing consumers back to CSDs with great-tasting healthier options is not only critical to us but also to the industry and our retailers.
So brand investments associated with the TEN platform launch are expected to be in excess of $30 million in 2013 and are above the expected contribution of these brands in the year.
The TEN platform may be our most strategically important innovation so we're prepared to invest in it heavily even though this will slow our earnings growth in 2013.
Moving below segment operating profit.
Our net interest expense will be around 4.4% on our $2.7 billion of debt and our full year tax rate is expected to be approximately 37%.
We expect capital spending to be approximately 3.5% of net sales and we expect to repurchase approximately $375 million to $400 million of our common stock in 2013 subject to market condition.
For the full year we expect core earnings per share to be in the $3.04 to $3.12 range.
Before I turn the call back over to Larry let me highlight a couple of phasing items that will help you update your models.
First our cost of goods increases will be fairly consistent across the year with slightly higher impacts in the first and the third quarters.
Second the transportation and field sales cost increases will be spread evenly across the year.
And finally the incremental marketing investments will be front-half loaded to support the Core 4 and RC TEN launch.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
As we move into 2013 nothing is more important than bringing new and lapsed consumers back to the CSD category.
We know we have a winning proposition with our TEN platform.
And with strong marketing plans and retail activation in place we're confident it can help to reinvigorate the category over time.
We're consistently executing against our focused strategy ensuring that we close distribution and availability gaps making our products top of mind and close at hand for consumers.
We remain focused on driving profitable volume and delivering value to our consumers while continuing to invest wisely behind our well-loved brands for the long term.
RCI fundamentals are becoming the foundation of this organization building a long-term sustainable operating platform that will continue to deliver tangible financial savings.
And finally we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time as evidenced by our 12% dividend increase announcement today.
Operator we are ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I just wanted to get a little bit more color in terms of the marketing spending increase behind the TEN platform in 2013.
So is the excess of $30 million incremental to what you're kind of spending on your other brands? Or is there some shift in terms of your spending? And then I guess sort of the broader question as I think about the product you clearly talked about this being a long-term platform that needs some time to build.
So just curious how you sort of think about the phasing of this marketing spending and why you feel so confident that spending this sort of step-up in spending in 2013 is the right strategy for the platform? Yes the $30 million is incremental Judy.
I mean we're getting behind this.
I mean everybody has probably even seen today some of the headlines from the CSPI.
I mean these threats against our industry are not going to go away.
We're not going to sit back and let it bring our volumes down and affect us.
We're behind this.
The $30 million like I said earlier will be across local national radio.
It will be on the social networks.
We'll have a lot of outdoor a lot of in-home.
We're going to go after it aggressively stay behind it and it will phase pretty well through the year.
You'll see the media start probably around March first part of March.
You're going to have a lot higher spend in the first half.
And then as it rolls out and we get the execution if we need to spend more we'll be looking at it and stand behind it because we are truly committed to it.
Judy let me add one more factor and I tried to emphasize it in my script.
That is that our commitment goes to the extent of creating in essence an operating loss on these brands in 2013.
That's what I said.
And as I said we're prepared -- we're so serious about this that we're prepared to as I said slow the trajectory in what maybe would have been high single-digit EPS growth in 2013 to about 5.5 if you use the midpoint of our range.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
I understand the math.
I'm just curious as to is this sort of a onetime rebasing of your marketing spending? Or if these issues persist do you sort of need this kind of an ongoing multiyear investment that limits your earnings growth to kind of this mid-single digit in 2013? No.
Right now we see it as a 1-year event.
Now we're going to have to see how the brands perform in the marketplace.
But this is clearly a onetime step-up.
We would not expect to continue to do this at least right now beyond 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I guess building on the TEN question is it -- obviously it's an interesting innovation but the platform represents a good number of new SKUs and adds complexity to the supply chain.
You'll probably have to displace a number of new products -- a number of existing products on the store shelf.
So how confident are you -- what gives you that confidence that the TEN products will find support from independent bottlers and retailers? Steve I think the biggest thing that's helping us with this the stores that we have put out so far we went in we've got incremental space.
It's one of the requirements.
Our consumers have been asking for something better-for-you.
Our customers have been asking for it we've come in with something.
We've taken it into them.
They are looking the results.
I mean I can just tell you some of the results we've seen early some of the first ones out of the bat.
We had a large convenient chain and a large grocery chain go first.
And they're looking at the first 4 weeks that they were in.
71% of TEN sales are incremental to the LRB category.
91% of the TEN sales were incremental to the CSD category.
When you take numbers like this back out to your bottling partners and our guys in the field and other customers it's not that hard of a sale.
I've been in the trade a lot the last few weeks and I'll tell you what I'm very very pleased with the execution that I've seen in our team and our bottling partners have been able to execute out there.
So it tells us whenever I get reports like this back from major retailers that we've got something here that they're excited about.
And we're not getting rid of any products we're not doing that.
I mean our supply chain is very nimble.
The things we've been able to do with RCI you've been on a couple of projects these guys can produce anything when the customer needs it and we ship it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No I was thinking more on the display side.
I just figured I don't see retailers giving more aisle space to CSDs.
So as you're adding new SKUs in size they've got to be coming from somewhere.
Well it comes from some places yes.
I mean we've been really fortunate that where we've been cutting it in we've not lost any of our space.
There's been maybe a little bit come out of private label.
One of the things that -- not only just ours but working speaking for the industry we're going in a lot of them saying we think there needs to be an incremental space for everybody in the industry that has a better-for-you product.
I mean we were able to do it with waters and teas and all these other items that people thought in the beginning would come out of our CSDs.
They didn't and I think that's where we all have to go and say let's get a section that's better-for-you.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one other thing on pricing.
Is there a difference between the pricing strategy you're employing on concentrate with your bottling partners versus the pricing you expect to see at the wholesale level? Because we've heard a number of rumblings of discontent regarding some of the concentrate price increases that you've pushed through early this year ahead of perceived wholesale prices.
I just wanted to get your perspective on that and whether or not you thought that was at all a risk.
Well I've not -- I don't think you'll ever find a bottler in the world that won't rumble if you raise it a 0.5% but then that's kind of a given.
I've not heard that much and we have nothing to do with how our bottlers set pricing.
So I think the good thing for us where we don't have that much problem is that we could pretty well show to our bottlers and to everybody that buys products from us that whenever we increase it we put it back into marketing we put it back into activation.
I mean we're not sitting here and just putting it in the bank.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last I guess maybe housekeeping thing.
Marty in the commodity outlook I didn't hear you mention apple juice concentrate.
Those prices have come down pretty considerably in the last couple of months.
So what's your outlook there? What impact does it have? And to the extent you're going to benefit from that deflation does it show up in margin or is it dealt back in price on the shelf? You're right.
Apple juice concentrate has come down recently.
I've seen prices under $8 a gallon at least as of a couple of weeks ago.
I'll tell you and we have bought some at lower prices that's in our guidance going into '13.
It looks like we've got about half of our juice concentrate already purchased.
So to the extent prices soften up we could take some advantage but not complete advantage.
There are no plans right now to deal any of that back in price.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First I think relative to Dr Pepper TEN I think it's a great idea just given all of the challenges that the industry is facing right now and especially the headwinds related to obesity.
You have to step up to the plate and take a big swing so I think it's a necessary action.
A couple of questions relative to it are first is it going to be line priced with everything else or has there been any thought in terms of trying to price it differently the rest of your portfolio? No on-shelf is line priced.
As with any introduction of a new product you'll probably see some harder pricing on display.
But it will be -- basically the plan is to have it pretty well line-priced out there.
We don't want to pull a lot -- we want to have a lot of people sampling it but we don't want to pull away from our core products.
Research Division</strong> And then when you begin with the full -- as you launch nationally with a full set of packaging SKUs or will it be more focused on let's say single-serve 20-ounce? Just any -- will the packaging mix be any different than what you would see across the rest of your...
Well you'll see basically 2-liter 12-pack 20-ounce and then a 12-ounce -- sampling package.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess an important really important element is that people try it for the first time and they like it.
And so just making sure that you manage that people -- there's fresh product on the shelf just what's the shelf life of the product and any thoughts just to making sure that you've got a fresh product out there for people to try? Shelf life is the same as our other products so that's not an issue.
It runs the same as our diet products.
And then as far as the sampling I mean as I mentioned earlier the number of coupons we'll be dropping the FSIs lots 12-ounce out over 1 million cans we're going to give away.
We've talked about some of our SG&amp;A being up with feet on the street.
I mean we're going to have people out there making sure that people have it at work at play that it's merchandised properly that we've got that incremental space and that it's always there when they come in to get it.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So first just to follow-on to the TEN platform and the line of questioning there.
Did your guidance contemplate or leave some cushion for any sort of competitive response? You mentioned a couple of times Larry that promotions and coupons that naturally sort of accompany this sort of launch.
And then Marty was there any sense that you could possibly pull forward some RCI savings to offset the step-up this year kind understanding that it's kind of a more methodical approach that you're taking with RCI? I'll start with that and maybe Larry wants to comment with his view on competitive response to our TEN products.
There's nothing to -- we're not going to pull anything forward.
It's -- this is a process some of you are closer to it than others.
I've talked at length about it when I've been out meeting with both you folks and our buy-side shareholders.
That's not what we want to do.
I think the message today is everybody knows we've worked hard on the supply chain and everybody can see the balance sheet results.
Those are very visible and big contributors to our cash flow improvement.
And there's a lot of attendant costs that will begin to come down that's associated with that.
The message you ought to take away today is that the focus areas in DSD which we're just beginning on all the DSD operating functions the warehousing functions delivery functions merchandising functions are going to get a lot of attention this year and that's where we have a lot of cost.
But there's no -- look we're going to spend heavily on TEN as we said.
It's going to be front-end loaded.
It's going to be $30 million incremental.
There's not anything we would care to want to do to try to offset that in the short run.
We don't think that would be smart for the business in the long run.
Yes.
And on the competitive front Kevin I think competitive activity is good for the category.
Our partners out there we've got Pepsi Next.
We've also got Fanta and Sprite Select out there.
I think the more activity we see in those lines as an industry the better.
We're all very competitive.
We're used to fighting on the street.
We get out there we go after the activation.
We go for the best taste and the best man wins.
So I look forward to competitive activity.
Research Division</strong> And then 2 more quick ones guys.
Larry what's your sense of the potential for additional pricing in '13? You had mentioned the 2% to 2.5% guidance the majority of which is mix.
Based on where we are today what's your sense for incremental pricing above and beyond that? We have -- let me comment.
We have not really contemplated much so our price and mix as I said Kevin obviously the concentrate price increase is already done.
We have some carryover pricing from last year.
Mix should be a positive factor.
Just for everybody's benefit remember that with respect to the TEN launch in terms of mix impact on top line those are going primarily to our DSD system as opposed to a year ago when Dr Pepper TEN went through the bottling system.
So those are DSD cases at DSD rates per case and not concentrate cases.
That's a big part of our mix.
And we've been benefiting and expect to continue to benefit from mix in some of our non-carbs.
We're doing very well in the water category which includes Vita Coco Neuro also Fiji.
And particularly within the coconut water category the functional water category.
We think those are going to be very positive contributors again.
And actually there's not a lot of what we would call law pricing in these numbers.
And we will Kevin taken opportunistic opportunities in the trade by channel and by package.
If the market allows we'll definitely be going after those.
We look for those opportunities at all times.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And one more if I may.
Your top line guidance now and I don't know if you want to put a number on this some of the weakness in non-carb has started to ease.
What's sort of your expectation by CSD and in the non-carb portfolio for '13? What's sort of contemplated in your guidance? In the guidance next year in the non-carb portfolio I would characterize as low- to mid-single digit for that portion of the portfolio.
As far as I know that's about 20% of our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question and just specific over the entire course of 2012 can you or are you able to delineate for us what your trends look like in your low per capita markets versus your more mature markets? Our low per cap markets we continue with our focus out there.
We're going to more local marketing more activation.
We're seeing greater growth on our products out there.
We're seeing pickup in availability.
And so the plan is working very well and we have no intention of changing that.
They kind of are mixed.
It's one that's hard to look at sometimes because we've got Dr Pepper coastal program.
We've got those center of the U.S.
with Snapple.
But in all of our markets we're very very pleased with what we're seeing.
You can look at the volumes especially on Snapple in the middle of the U.S.
where it was weaker.
I mean we're seeing volumes up there in the high teens.
Sunkist we're seeing our Sunkist volumes coming up 7% where in other parts of the country they were actually down.
So it's kind of helping us bring that Sunkist number back.
You heard us talk about winning the West with our juices and everything.
Our winning the West volume was up 13.4% and so all the indicators we have are saying that our strategy is right on track and that there's no reason we would deviate from it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question on convenience stores which had been a big area of focus over the last couple of years if you can talk about how your share trends in that channel and then -- and if you're willing how things look quarter-to-date particularly as payroll taxes expire and such.
I'll answer the first one.
If I could answer the second one I think we'd have a magic crystal ball here or something.
What we saw in 2012 I mean if you can kind of look at the Q4 volumes the category was down 3 in convenient and gas.
We were down 1.3 so we were the tallest midget.
Full year volumes the category was down 0.6.
We were up 0.4.
If you kind of look at the -- you guys have all seen the last 4 weeks the category was down 3.
We were up 0.9.
And the great thing is we continue to get more distribution on our Snapple premium.
Like I said a moment ago our ACV was up 6.7 points.
That's fantastic results.
And we're holding space with our CSDs despite all the package and the new product innovation.
Your last question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for you.
Firstly on free cash flow Marty can you give us some estimates for '13? Last year when you adjust for the taxes was as you said nearly $800 million the year prior to that was $500 million and change.
So how are you thinking about free cash flow for this year? Mark I wish we could perpetuate the working capital improvements but of course we can't.
So our view of free cash flow is really for planning purposes driven off our earnings number which you can derive from the range we have given you.
And maybe a little bit of upside to that number there's still some harvesting we can do off the balance sheet.
We've guided 3.5% for your modeling purposes and our purposes 3.5% CapEx.
We came in lower this year.
So that may be a guidance there could be some upside there I'm not ready to predict it yet.
And so maybe a little bit of upside to our net earnings number.
We should -- our RCI is not over by any stretch of imagination so there may still be some other opportunities.
We've given you the range of -- we ended this year with $260 million of cash.
We could operate on a little less cash so there's no magic to that number.
We've guided $375 million to $400 million of share repurchases next year and hopefully we'll be at the higher end of that.
But that is our range.
You can sort of price out the full year rate dividend that's now at full year rate of $1.52 and everything works pretty well.
I would not -- we just can't expect these kinds of $750 million $800 million free cash flow years continuing.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes it sounds like something in the 6s and the 6 to 7 ranges.
Yes I would -- for your purposes I would say in the $675 million to $700 million range may not be an unrealistic expectation.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
Great.
And then kind of a tougher question.
But on the revenue targets I believe remain mid-single digits and I concur with Bryan said with the TEN emphasis and the category needs more innovation.
So it's good to see you guys in a sense really leading that.
But I'm still trying to understand how do these mid-single digit revenue targets govern the annual budgeting process influencing spending decisions like we've heard today? And at what point in any given year would you be up for reconsidering these revenue targets? Mark they're not -- I'm not sure I totally understand the question.
As we said we're guiding next year to 3% top line.
These are built up business by business.
There is -- our spending is planned based on what it is we want to do what we think can be effective including marketing and what marketing is effective what's not effective.
And they don't -- there's no issue in terms of causing us to either overplan our spending -- or even overspend for that matter.
I mean it's not -- it doesn't work that way.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But what I'm driving -- am I right the target is mid-single right long term? Well look right now we've talked about 3% to 5% in the past And I think for the most part given the economic environment we've taken the 5% off the table for all practical purposes.
We've talked about how we think about within that range certainly gained 3% or how we would get to 5% in a more robust economic environment.
But for our planning purposes now I think given that the outside environment given what we're doing internally which we are really excited about right now we think approximately 3% is the number.
And if things improve yes maybe it could go up but we don't see the benefit of talking about that now.
I want to thank everyone for joining the call today and for your continued interest in the Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relations.
Carolyn you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Carolyn and good morning everyone.
We're pleased with our performance in the quarter as our team has remained focused and executed our strategy despite macroeconomic challenges unseasonably cold weather across the country and continued criticism of sugar sweetened beverages.
For the quarter bottler case sales declined 2% on 3 percentage points of price and mix.
Dr Pepper declined 3% with declines across the base business and Dr Pepper TEN as we continue to cycle inventory builds from the national launch.
It should come as no surprise that our Dr Pepper performance was negatively impacted by calendar shifts from our larger bottling partners.
And while we continue to gain new availabilities in fountain softening trends in the restaurant industry more than offset those gains.
Our Core 4 brands were flat for the quarter on the launch of our TEN products and I'll speak more about TEN in a moment.
Hawaiian Punch decreased 14% primarily due to its performance at one national retailer; and Mott's posted strong growth of 11% as we continue to gain distribution across key packages in both the juice and sauce categories.
Snapple declined 2% cycling 5% growth from a year ago on price increases and lower promotional activity associated with the national launch of Diet Half 'n Half last year.
And while I don't like talking about the weather the severe cold this winter in the Northeast Snapple's heartland definitely had an impact on this brand.
All other brands decreased 2% for the quarter led by a mid-single decline in Crush and double-digit decline in Sun Drop.
On a currency-neutral basis net sales increased 1% for the quarter reflecting 3 percentage points of price/mix partially offset by lower volumes.
Segment operating profit increased 7% for the quarter as revenue growth ongoing productivity improvements from RCI and a favorable adjustment to our LIFO inventory provision of $7 million were partially offset by planned increases in commodities primarily from apples and our labor and benefit cost.
Core EPS was $0.53 for the quarter versus $0.46 in the prior year a 15% increase.
As consumers are becoming increasingly more aware of caloric intake and are looking to make healthier choices for themselves and their families there's no question they're drinking fewer CSDs.
That's why we created the TEN platform giving consumers the opportunity to enjoy the same great taste and full mouthfeel of a regular CSD with a lot less calories.
In fact they can drink an entire 12 pack of TEN and consume less calories than in 1 regular 12-ounce can.
Now that's something to get excited about.
The national rollout of our Core 4 and RC TEN is well underway.
With ACV currently at 65% in grocery we've secured incremental space in the majority of our accounts and will continue to gain distribution over the next several months based on each retailers' planogram resets.
And while it's still very early I'm pleased to say it's performing in line with our expectations.
Where we currently have distribution these products are approximately 10% of the core trademarks total sales and they've been highly incremental to the CSD category meaning that we are achieving our goal of bringing lapsed consumers back to the category.
Our marketing support behind this launch is heating up too.
The national TV spot which plays to both male and female consumers began airing mid-March and will continue through the summer letting consumers know that they can get both with TEN.
We've also had lots of buzz through social media with consumer-created videos available on Facebook Twitter and YouTube.
My personal favorite shows a guy who spends about 20 seconds prepping for a workout then runs for only 3 seconds to work off the TEN calories.
And I hope you all saw Olympic gold medal winning gymnast McKayla Maroney in February at Penn Station renamed TEN Station for the day.
She handed out hundreds of samples of TEN to consumers and said that she finally found something that impressed her with our TEN products.
She also did a media blitz around TEN with coverage on Fox &amp; Friends CNN Starting Point and many others garnering over 300 million impressions.
Like I said last quarter it's critical that we get this product in the consumer's hands.
Our lifestyle sampling program has already hit more than 10 markets with more to come giving out thousands of free cans and the consumer feedback has all been extremely positive.
We'll continue to be patient with this launch because we know consumption habits take time to change and we've proven that TEN can bring consumers back to the category.
And of course TEN isn't all we have to be excited about.
We're teaming up with Redbox to give consumers free movie rentals when they purchase take-home packages or single-serve bottles of Dr Pepper.
And we'll be firing up the grill this summer with one-of-a-kind point-of-sale and merchandising kits to drive additional points of interruption in key retailers.
Speaking of grilling our Core 5 brands are partnering with Coleman to bring a full package of summertime solutions to consumers and retailers.
The Core 5 Summer Fun program will tie in with retailer thematics driving additional displays and points of interruption in the store.
For the fourth year in a row we're sponsoring the PJ Awards the #1 rated Hispanic youth award program.
Pitbull will once again be our partner headlining both the new TV campaign and a Dr Pepper private concert.
We'll also sponsor a new me mix promotion where participants can compete for the opportunity to perform at the private concert.
Soccer is a major passion for Hispanic consumers.
So 7UP is sponsoring the 2013 Gold Cup a premier international tournament where 12 national teams from the Caribbean North and Central America compete.
In 2011 this tournament drew more than 600 000 fans with 10.8 million total viewers on Univision.
And this year FOX Soccer Channel and FOX Sports are joining in and will broadcast all 25 matches in English for the first time in Gold Cup history.
7UP will have branding on all official Gold Cup material and has an exclusive media buy on Univision during the tournament.
Crush is giving away a money can't buy VIP experience with teen sensation Cody Simpson.
And our new advertising on Sun Drop goes head-to-head with the competition letting consumers know that while Mountain Dew is good Sun Drop is surprisingly good.
Wake up and say aloha with Hawaiian Punch Aloha Morning a delicious new breakfast offering that contains 40% less sugar than other leading juice drinks.
Snapple is bringing back the nostalgic under the cap promotion "Win nothing instantly!" where consumers can win nothing such as no grocery bills or no rent and will provide value to our consumers and retailers with the launch of cold-fill SnapTea in a gallon take-home package and 16-ounce single-serve cans.
And that's not all.
We know the value of collaborating with strong partners so we've teamed up with 7-Eleven to develop an exclusive limited time Snapple line directly targeting Millennial consumers.
Our Snapple Lemon Daze will include 3 thirst-quenching flavors: regular; pink; and mango lemonade and features never-seen-before graphics.
These products will have storefront presence and merchandising throughout the summer.
I'm sure you'll agree that we have some great activity lined up for the summer.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through some of our below the line items and our thoughts on the balance of the year.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
Reported net sales for the quarter were up 1% with price and mix up just over 1 point each and 0.5 point from favorable discounts in both our Beverage Concentrates and Packaged Beverages segments.
This was partially offset by a 2-point decline in sales volumes.
Reported gross margins were up slightly increasing from 57.1% last year to 57.2% this year.
There are a number of moving parts here so let me review them for you.
First the net pricing factors I just mentioned increased gross margins by approximately 80 basis points.
Second higher input costs primarily related to apples and corn reduced year-over-year gross margins by 50 basis points but this increase was offset by ongoing RCI productivity benefits.
We also recorded a LIFO inventory benefit of $7 million in the quarter based on our current view of inflation and year-end inventory balances.
This drove a 50-basis-point improvement in the gross margin comparison as there was no LIFO reserve movement last year.
Furthermore product mix reduced gross margins by approximately 40 basis points.
And finally changes in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter caused us to record a $7 million unrealized mark-to-market loss with $6 million in cost of goods and $1 million in SG&amp;A.
This compares to a $6 million unrealized mark-to-market gain last year with approximately $5 million in cost of goods and $1 million in SG&amp;A.
This unfavorable comparison reduced gross margins by approximately 80 basis points.
SG&amp;A excluding depreciation and amortization increased by $10 million for the quarter on planned increases in field labor cost higher marketing investments of $2 million and the unfavorable mark-to-market comparison I just mentioned.
Moving below the operating line depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter declined by $3 million and reported operating income increased by 3% from $192 million representing 14.1% of net sales to $197 million or 14.3% of net sales this year.
Removing the impact of mark-to-market gains and losses in both years core operating income increased by 10% or $18 million and represented 14.8% of net sales up 110 basis points from 13.7% last year.
Net interest expense was $34 million or $2 million above last year.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 36.1% versus 37.4% in the prior year as we benefited from various tax credits.
Moving on to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities was $60 million and capital spending was $29 million.
Free cash flow was $31 million compared to $132 million in the prior year after adjusting for the taxes paid on the Coke and Pepsi licensing agreements.
Receivables grew as a result of fewer collection days in March of this year.
And on a FIFO inventory basis apples and resin increased raw materials by $18 million compared to the same period last year.
For the quarter total distributions to shareholders were $171 million with $101 million in share repurchases and $70 million in dividends.
Before I update you on our 2013 guidance let me provide you with a quick update on RCI.
We've now just begun the third year of our continuous improvement journey and I couldn't be more pleased with the level of engagement and enthusiasm from our people.
To date we have -- we've had over 3 000 people participate in 255 Kaizen events.
And through these events we've learned that breakthrough change is possible and that it can be done rapidly and sustainably.
As I mentioned in February the next phase of our journey includes 2 approaches: goal deployment and Lean leadership track management.
Essentially we're focused on driving breakthrough business results while also developing our business leaders to become Lean champions.
We've identified track leaders from across the business to focus on the core activities within DSD warehousing delivery merchandising cold drink and certain field marketing activities.
These track leaders will leverage Lean tools to discover and replicate wins across the business where they can be adapted to local operations.
We've already kicked off the initial DSD track Kaizens and they will continue to run through the second quarter with replication events to starting mid-June.
And with $127 million of cash productivity already achieved I remain confident that we'll achieve at least $150 million of cash productivity by the end of this third year of our journey.
Moving on to 2013 full year guidance.
As you saw in this morning's press release we continue to believe we can achieve net sales growth of approximately 3% for the year with full year core earnings per share in the $3.04 to $3.12 range.
Consistent with our first quarter performance we expect combined price and mix to be up about 2% to 2.5% for the full year with a larger portion resulting from mix.
Remember the majority of Core 4 and RC TEN volume will be finished product sales through our Packaged Beverages segment contributing to higher reported net selling price per case.
Sales volume is expected to be about 0.5 point led by Core 4 TEN and growth in our non-carb portfolio for Mott's Snapple and our allied brands.
As we communicated previously considering our hedged positions and current market prices for our unhedged positions we expect packaging and ingredients to increase total cost of goods by approximately 2% on a constant volume/mix basis.
Our core earnings guidance does not include an assumption for LIFO reserve adjustments positive or negative.
We continue to expect higher field labor costs including health and welfare to increase our cost by $25 million and higher lane rates from our common carriers as well as certain regulatory changes in Mexico to increase our transportation base by $6 million for the year.
As Larry said our national rollout of Core 4 and RC TEN is well underway and we remain committed to investing in excess of $30 million incrementally to support this critical launch.
Net interest expense will be around 4.4% on our $2.7 billion of debt and we now expect our full year tax rate to be slightly below 37% including the credits we recognized in the first quarter.
In terms of cash flow capital spending is expected to be approximately 3.5% of net sales and we remain on track to repurchase approximately $375 million to $400 million of our common stock this year subject to market conditions.
For modeling purposes let me highlight a couple of items that will impact quarterly phasing.
First marketing investments will be heavily weighted to the second quarter.
Second as a reminder revenue benefited from 1 point of discount favorability in the second quarter of 2012 that we do not expect to recur this year.
And finally as I said last quarter the transportation and field sales cost inflation will be evenly spread throughout the year.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
You've heard me say it many times now but it's absolutely critical we reinvigorate the CSD category and bring consumers back to the products that they know and love.
And we're doing that with our TEN platform giving them the great taste and full mouthfeel of a regular CSD but with only 10 calories.
We continue to execute against our focused strategy ensuring that we close distribution and availability gaps making our products top-of-mind and close at hand for our consumers.
We remain focused on driving profitable growth and delivering value to our consumers while continuing to invest wisely behind our well-loved brands for the long term.
RCI continues to gain traction throughout the organization building a long term sustainable operating platform that will continue to deliver tangible financial results.
And finally we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I think in the beginning when you were talking about TEN you talked about 65% ACV.
Can you talk about how -- what it is sort of on a brand-by-brand basis how much success you're getting in terms of getting all the brands in there you talked about incremental shelf space how you're doing that.
And then is this something you expect to continue to build over the next couple of quarters or what's the level where you think this can max out? And what percentage of those accounts do you think you'll get all 4 plus potentially RC in as well? Right.
Where they're at right now John they're taking all of the brands.
That's part of the performance we're looking for the incremental space plus taking all of them.
So it's been working very successfully.
As I mentioned though it's going to build more especially through the second quarter as stores are doing their planogram resets.
We've got a lot of accounts right now that are giving us some incremental end cap until they can reset the shelf.
And as I mentioned where we have it the accounts that we've been able to get it in we're showing that the TEN is 10% of the trademark.
So we're very very pleased with that.
I think one of the surprises that I look at and kind of have had a pleasant surprise is how well RC TEN's been doing.
We don't ever do much with it but it's just been very very successful working on the TEN platform.
When you go across them they're all performing basically equally out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess in terms of looking at getting all 4 of those on an end cap together I mean in some markets you're going to have Dr Pepper TEN going through a Coke or a Pepsi bottle or with maybe the other products going through your system.
What are the executional hurdles as you try to put all those -- put all the brands in place together when you're going through different systems? We've got a lot of accounts right now where we've been able to -- we go ahead and let -- whether it's Coke or Pepsi put the Dr Pepper TEN on with our TEN platform and it's worked very well.
We have 1 regional chain that's even -- we've put them all together the Dr Pepper TEN and even Pepsi Next.
They're with it too kind of coming up with a better-for-you platform.
So our retailers are working with us.
We're working with them and we're working with our partners.
And that's why I say it's going to be a long -- it's a journey.
It's not just something we go out there and turn the lights on overnight getting those consumption habits to change.
But so far we're very very bullish on what we've seen be able to happen and how excited the retailer is about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about the stills part of the portfolio? Because it just seems that Hawaiian Punch has been so weak for so long and I just wonder if there's any hope in a recovery there.
And even though Mott's looked better this quarter again that's been more of a problem maybe than a strength.
And then on Snapple as well I know you're repositioning the value end there.
Can you talk about when we ought to see that turn positive in terms of year-over-year growth as well? Yes I think we'll see -- again as I mentioned Snapple really got hit the hardest by the weather.
The Northeast is our heartland.
It's where we have our heavy sales.
So we look at the Snapple coming back with the stuff I showed you for the summer.
The activity that we have placed for Snapple is very very heavy focused on Q2.
And so we'll get that activity out there.
We'll get the media the promotions that we have going which will carry us very well into the summer and third quarter.
On Hawaiian Punch we are still sticking to our guns on the pricing.
We've put it out there.
It has suffered on volume.
I think we'll see that probably start lapping towards the end of the second first in the third quarter.
It's hurt us on volume Wendy.
But I'll tell you on the margins and the profitability you've always heard us say we pursue profitable volume.
And we just -- we had to take some pricing and we stuck to our guns and it's hurting for a little bit but it's going to pay off.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following up I guess on the price/mix guidance you gave for the year Marty going back trying to sort of drill down on what the top line growth is going to look like for the overall company in the second quarter so we can manage expectations.
Price/mix specifically for the second quarter given all of the marketing spending I know you said advertising was going to be weighted there what about promotional spending? Is that still going to be up strongly in the second quarter? Yes Wendy it will be.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> 2 questions I guess related to just to the revenue build.
One just can you explain a little bit more or give a little more color just on what the discount favorability was? And then I guess connected to that is that -- I guess we should look at that as something that reverses later in the year? Just trying to understand what that was and kind of how to think about that over the next couple of quarters.
Yes so Brian the item relates to how we record trade or what others might call funding to bottlers.
We don't record that when we ship the cases more of a concentrate to them.
We record it when they sell it through and report it back as bottler case sales.
So depending upon the comparison of shipments to bottler case sales in any period you could have more or less trade.
This year in the quarter for example if you think about the calendar for a moment.
We had Easter right at that -- it was what beginning of April may have been April 1 as I recall.
So we were shipping a lot of holiday concentrate to our bottling partners in the back half of March.
But obviously that product didn't sell-through.
So we would not have accrued that trade.
That helped Q1 but it's timing.
It'll come back and in essence we'll accrue that in the second quarter.
So just think about it as timing throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you've got a full year plan for kind of what you think volume will be and what the spending is related to that.
And it just was a mismatch in the first quarter but it should even out as we go through the balance of the year? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then just a second question.
Just in terms of any -- the slotting fees or the costs that you're spending to attain the distribution on TEN is that being accrued evenly across the year? Is it sort of tied to when you get the activity you put it in? I'm just trying to understand how much of a factor that was in terms of driving cost in the first quarter.
And I guess it sounds like maybe there would be even more in the second quarter just given how much more extra distribution we're expecting.
Brian from an accounting point to the extent we're paying slotting okay we would do it as we incur it.
We don't spread it throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And so that should be a bigger -- more an expense again in the second quarter to the extent that you're paying it? It'll be just like our marketing.
The marketing load is all heavy towards the second quarter more availability.
It will go second quarter and a little bit into the third.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> On TEN just going back to distribution and I think you've alluded to this.
But the list of partners on your TENGetBoth website at this point is still pretty selective specifically missing Kroger Wal-Mart Target.
I believe at least partial distribution at those outlets at this point and again to ramping up as we talked about.
But what inning would you say you were exiting Q1 on distribution? And what inning do you expect to be by exiting Q2 just to get a size -- a sense of the magnitude of the Q2 ramp? I think we're right now in the third inning.
And it'll probably be in the third quarter before we get -- achieve our goal.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Q3 essentially full distribution in terms of...
Q3 will be -- what we're seeing Steve is a lot of them that would not give incremental space and that we wouldn't put product in coming back now and saying well if we give you a permanent end cap.
And so we've agreed to do a permanent end cap in some of those that -- and that we know the timing of when those sets will be in.
So that's why I say it'll be up into the third quarter before some of those are in.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And I know you were lapping inventory build in Q1 but just to confirm do you expect DP TEN volume to finish up for the year? And if so roughly by how much? I think we can get it basically flat to a little bit up.
We had just a huge build out there with the displays and everything.
And I think we're getting a nice halo effect from the core TEN.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then lastly earlier in the quarter you reacquired distribution rights on Snapple and some other non-carbonated beverages in Asia and also acquired distribution rights across California Idaho Nevada et cetera.
Those are obviously small deals.
But in the context of past comments past discussion that you didn't need to expand outside of your current geographies and you don't need to add distribution -- geographic footprint of distribution to kind of drive growth.
Can you just help frame those transactions what made them attractive now and whether or not you foresee more actions in that direction as you look ahead? I'll tell you what I'll cover the California piece and let Marty cover the Asia-Pacific.
You guys have heard me say before we have a -- the only time we really bolt any of these franchises on is when it gets down to a situation of either succession planning or estate planning.
We had a great bottler out there that decided he wanted get out of the business and it just made sense.
We surrounded it.
We were able to shut down the production facility.
We'll be able to service our customers I think a lot faster with having 1 voice.
And so we do a lot of those little bolt-ons and to your point are very very small.
So that's why we picked that one up.
And I'll let Marty kind of go into Asia-Pacific.
Yes Steve Kraft and really now Mondelez had the distribution rights from Cadbury for Snapple and actually a number of other brands including CSD brands.
They didn't want to keep it.
They had done nothing with it.
I think they had 5 total distributors throughout region and really only 2 of them were selling much of anything and maybe just slightly in excess of 100 000 cases of Snapple 1 distributor being in Singapore 1 being in Hong Kong.
Actually the Snapple brand years and years and years ago was actually represented in the region and sold reasonably well in a few places and it was pulled out of the market years and years and years ago.
So our attitude was look if they really don't want it -- if you study our financial statements carefully enough and the cash flow statement carefully enough you can probably tell what we paid for it which was very very small.
For the opportunity to build out it'll look like a third-party distribution system.
There's no plans here to spend capital to build plants or warehouses to invest in our own footprint but rather to put together a network of distributors.
The product will continue to be made initially -- and I'm referring to Snapple in the U.S.
And so it's quite expensive to transport it to Asia.
But we'll decide if we need co-packing there.
So we're in the early stages.
We've got a handful of people here that I have taken on the management of it and they're building and developing plans.
And I said when we put out the announcement that not to expect anything material in terms of financial outcomes this year.
But as we develop it and have a sense for what that could mean to us we will communicate it.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A few questions.
Firstly Larry here in the U.S.
could you speak specifically to the fountain channel and what you think you're seeing unfold there from a larger category perspective and performance of your brands in that channel and how you're looking at that channel looking out? Yes it's -- if we look at the latest month -- and like you've heard me say before Mark we really watch it closely because it's kind of -- it's a good indicator for us.
But our March flash was showing that the QSR traffic was down about 1%.
You can kind of see that with our -- how our fountain performance was for the quarter.
A lot of the -- some of the big ones that have reported that are publicly-traded gave the numbers down 1% 1% 2% so it shows very much what we're seeing in March.
And it affected us but we outperformed the category as a whole if you look in QSR.
I'm thinking it's going to possibly get a little stronger.
We're cautiously optimistic about it.
You've heard some of the plans from some of the major chains on how they're kind of changing some of their strategies.
And we hope it will be a significant part of helping them turn that around.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And when you look at that channel and maybe C stores -- or when you look at the trends from across different channels what do you think they're telling you about either the consumer generally or the consumer vis--vis the products the fizzy and the non-carbonated products that you and others are selling? Yes I think the tough part for Q1 Mark that makes it a little harder to look at from the trends we've been watching was the weather that we had in the first quarter.
I would probably if you look at the softness I would probably give 2/3 of that softness to weather and the other 1/3 to the consumer and the economy.
Our convenience store trends are still looking pretty good.
We're still showing some favorability there.
And then we're pretty bullish about the gas prices coming down.
I don't know about up in the Northeast but they're dropping pretty quick here.
And so I think that's going to give us an uplift there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's a great.
That's great.
And then Marty I guess 2 questions one's really a follow-on to Steve.
Can you speak a little bit more about your attitude towards the Snapple brand other brands in Europe where I think there might be an opportunity eventually to change distribution there? And perhaps a little bit or kind of flesh out a little bit further really to Steve's question about what this might signal from a larger kind of attitude to growth outside the U.S.
not only for Snapple and your non-carbonated brands but those brands where it's still acquirable on the carbonated side? And then just on the productivity might we -- can you give us some sense when we'll get a view of productivity opportunities beyond the $150 million you target by the end of this year? Yes okay Mark.
Let me finish my thoughts that I think you're right that Steve started to ask.
I mean first of all as I said in the Mondelez transaction we actually did not -- were not interested in the carbonated brands.
I think we'd be foolish to actually believe that we were going to start building a carbonated soft drink business in some of these places.
But the non-carbs Snapple for example ready-to-drink tea ready-to-drink tea across the countries of Asia that we now have the rights to is something like a 2.6 billion case market defined market.
And I think everybody knows ready-to-drink tea in most parts of the world is a good LRB category and Snapple fits right in there well so it's an opportunity.
Mott's Hawaiian Punch for the most part all of our non-carbs we do have the rights to.
So we could do something with them.
And it's very possible that with a couple of those brands we will add them along with Snapple and take them to distributors as a portfolio because we think those brands might be able to gain some traction there too.
Look we would love to have this opportunity.
We want to have the opportunity to grow internationally if we can of course.
And on the carbonated side as everybody knows we're pretty much landlocked between the U.S.
Canada and Mexico because of the actions Cadbury took back in the '90s.
So yes to the extent that we can take Snapple to markets internationally whether it's in Asia or maybe down the road in other markets yes there could be an opportunity there but I think it's too early for us to certainly try to size that.
But at some point it might be meaningful for us and be a good add-on to our business but not in carbonated.
I wouldn't expect us to do anything in carbonated.
Productivity improvement RCI it's a little early.
You could tell I'm encouraged.
We had some pretty good results this quarter seeing some of the P&amp;L productivity flowing through from many of the supply chain-related projects that we worked on throughout last year.
And some of those benefits now we're starting to see on the P&amp;L side.
And Larry and I and others have been present through a number of these early Kaizen events in DSD.
And we are quite thrilled actually by some of the early returns.
Larry and I will be speaking to some employees later this morning and I'm going to share an update on RCI with them and I'm going to talk about a few data points that for us are really important.
But I can't size them completely for you in terms of guidance but just some of the things we've done in the merchandising function in Houston and Irving.
That in the case of Houston for example in the first quarter their actual merchandising spend is down 9%.
When you look at their volume it's an improvement of $0.18 a case.
Irving's got some similar benefits and the teams think maybe this could be worth $1.5 million to $2 million for them just in these 2 branches.
And so there's just lots of opportunity.
But it's too early for me to put the next level target out there.
And so I'm going to at least for this quarter defer on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Another question on TEN and on the platform and I think try and square your commentary with the results.
It looks like you got quite a bit of distribution getting up to 65% distribution.
And you talked about being incremental but I'm looking at the overall volumes of Core 4 still being flat.
So can you help me understand a little bit the dynamic between the 2? Well flat on the Core 4 is pretty good for what the category did.
You can tell we outperformed there on it.
And like I said if you take our total trademark it's about 10% is what we're running.
The TEN products are 10% of the trademark.
And we're seeing that build.
And so we're excited about that.
The teams have done an excellent job on getting the execution out there.
You have to get out and execute.
And what I like is that we stood behind that we're not putting it in if we don't get incremental space.
And so we probably could have been about 65% if we've not stuck to that.
But we're seeing people come back in.
And like right now with Safeway with 100% distribution.
We've got display rates sitting out there at 70%.
The TEN sales are incremental to the entire LRB category not just CSDs.
So it's hard to talk about the success and really show success when you got a category that's down.
But we think we're going to see -- most of the category in my opinion for the quarter as I mentioned a moment ago was weather-related.
And I think we're going to see that kind of come back.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I got it.
It seems like the idea of launching new products and committing to only distributing them if you have shelf -- incremental shelf space is something that's becoming maybe not more of the norm but something that is a big focus.
I know Red Bull is doing that with their flavor e-juice.
Do you think you're going into a period of time where we could have SKU proliferation even in CSDs as everybody scrambles for shelf space? And can't really just do it based on their sales as a percentage of what their sales would be in the category there needs to be something different or something new? Well I think we have -- our customers and our partners out there are always asking us for innovation and we bring the innovation.
It would be kind of silly for us to just take our own space with innovation then we're cannibalizing our own products.
And this way we can really tell we can give you exactly what we're losing on core whether it's regular or diet to TEN.
So I think on SKU proliferation I mean everybody's getting pretty good at category management.
And you've got have x number of days of turns or you're not going to be in that space.
And it's not what we sell them on it's what they tell us.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So 2 questions for you.
First on your top line growth guidance for the year is it fair to say maybe you're feeling modestly less optimistic on the 3% growth? And I say that within the context that the first quarter on the CSD side was obviously rough for the industry for a number of reasons weather and higher gas prices et cetera.
And then on the non-carb side Marty I think last quarter you said you were hoping for low-to-mid single digit growth at that portion of your portfolio.
And given the rough first quarter where bottler case sales were down 4% that would probably suggest you have to do mid-single digit sort of growth for the balance of the year which would seem like a challenge.
So I was just curious to get your thoughts if you think that seems like a fair assessment? Kevin here's where I dissect this one.
Let's deal with the non-carbs okay? Larry commented on the Hawaiian Punch.
And yes I would tell you we thought maybe we'd see better performance.
As of this point we haven't.
He said we're standing in there with our position on the brand and it's affected the volume as you've all seen.
He also said we're looking for profitable growth and that's not what one of our highest margin brands.
So it doesn't do as much damage on the bottom line so we don't get as concerned about what it's doing on the top line.
Although it's a key factor.
It's the largest volume.
In case volume it's the largest volume brand in the non-carbs and that's why it gets this attention.
Not worried about Snapple.
Our Northeast distributors really took a pretty big hit in the first quarter.
The brand performed pretty well in most of the other parts of the country.
Clearly they told us they simply couldn't get the product out and consumers -- we're not going to worry about Snapple at all.
It's well positioned.
We got a lot of activity for that.
So the non-carb piece we're pretty confident we can get that back.
And of course Mott's performed well.
We expect that to continue.
So actually that's part of our optimism in terms of why we think we could still get to the 3%.
And then on the carb side of course as Larry said this is the critical period through the end of the reset period.
We're pretty pleased with the sell-through that we're seeing in the Nielsen data.
Many of you can see that data.
I saw the March data it was clipping along at actually a pace that we were very happy with.
Yes a lot of that could be trial too early to talk about repeat but we're very encouraged.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And one other question I had was on shelf space and distribution.
So first on DP TEN.
The syndicated data that I'm looking at suggests that you guys have lost several points since you launched nationally.
I was curious if that's the same sort of data that you're looking at? And if so if you could elaborate then.
And second on an unrelated topic but kind of more broadly Larry I like to get your thoughts.
There's been more discussion of late about CSDs losing shelf space to higher growth categories like craft beer and energy drinks.
Are you seeing that? Are you hearing more of that from your bottlers and retailers et cetera? Yes on the TEN you're correct.
We've lost some points on that but we also have programs in place to pick that back up.
We just got through having meetings with both our large partners and we've got great plans in place.
And as I mentioned a moment ago I think we're getting a halo effect from the core TEN out there and especially where we can merchandise them together and kind of build strength there together which we have no problem at all doing that.
As far as shelf space losing to energy or craft beers they're in a different part of the store.
They're in a different aisle.
We haven't seen really any issues with that.
You might see some of it in smaller convenience stores that don't have much space.
But I think if we all kind of look at -- I know the numbers I look at show that even energy is slowing down a little bit.
So I don't know if that's really a problem that we've run into out here.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Hey a couple of things.
First on sort of TEN looking forward 5 years.
Do you have any sort of targets for what you think it could be as a percentage of the total carbonated soft drink portfolio? And then maybe what you think about some of the rumblings about a new sweetener and how flexible the sweetener components are in TEN to sort of change them if something new and different comes out? Well I'll start with sweetener.
We're always looking at the different sweeteners but I don't thing it would have any impact on our TEN not saying that we wouldn't come out with something else down the road.
But TEN is a platform that we designed to make sure that we have the mouthfeel of a regular CSD.
It's full-bodied.
And so we have no intention of changing the TEN but we never stop looking at different sweeteners.
The sweetener technology and the chase for that holy grail is ongoing.
It just keeps going and all of us are out there working on it and trying to see what we can come up with.
But I think all the research that we did we found that what we came up with TEN is probably going to affect more people out there that are looking for their great taste with less caloric intake.
Do you want to take the first part of the question Marty? The first part of the question I believe was do we have sort of a 5-year goal for what TEN could be? We think it could be big.
But no we haven't stated any specific numbers.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then I was just sort of playing with like all the puts and takes.
I know you don't like to give quarterly guidance but are earnings going to be down in the second quarter based on everything you've sort of said in your prepared comments? And then maybe how April is looking so far? Bill like you said we don't give quarterly guidance.
We have no comment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How about April? How are April trends so far? We have no comment on April.
Your final question this morning comes from the line of Brett Cooper with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Just a question I guess a clarification when you were talking about price/mix.
You said that a benefit of 50 basis points and that you're lapping 100 basis point benefit from a year ago.
Does that mean that sort of reported price/mix will trail underlying by 50 or 100 basis points all else equal in the second quarter? So here's what I would think about your pricing as you lay it out.
The pure pricing that we talked about this year which includes the concentrate price increase in January 1 which spread over the entire revenue base not just the concentrate revenue base is worth about 0.5 point.
Some other pricing we took a year ago in Mott's.
And actually sauce I should say sauce was a real success story for us before because we went ahead and bit the bullet on the higher price for the apples and we then raised price.
And in so doing we couldn't cover the full cost last year but we got customer commitments for the space and now that's helped us up.
But that's pretty -- that's going to be a full year.
That's going to be sort of an even flow there.
So the pricing itself is sort of even.
The mix will start to pick up because of the shift to the core TEN which are DSD cases.
You'll have to figure out how to model that in your own models.
And yes the lapping of the trade adjustment is really mostly a Q2 factor.
And so that will hurt the comparison really only in Q2.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then what was marketing in the quarter and then how do we think about it for the second quarter? Because if I recall correctly when you guys initially talked about sort of the incremental $30 million -- if memory serves I thought you talked about that being more weighted to the first half? That's correct.
So let me go through that.
We actually talked about spending $30 million incrementally on TEN.
And I'll tell you we actually spent a little more than $10 million in the first quarter.
Total marketing was only up $2 million and that's because we were lapping from a year ago the launch of Snapple Diet Half 'n Half.
So actually marketing spend last year in the first quarter was a little heavy so the comparison was up only $2 million but we did spend the $10 million and we're still committed to expecting the full $30 million.
For your purposes I would assume that the better part of that remainder all falls in the second quarter.
And the second quarter was a little lighter -- well I guess wasn't lighter than the first quarter but it's going to be -- it's going to be -- Q2 marketing is going to be up quite substantially.
LLC</strong> And just to be clear though if the non $30 million piece the non-marketing of $30 million piece should be flat to up for the year is that correct? I'm sorry the non-marketing...
LLC</strong> The non -- so you're spending $30 million incrementally in the TEN platform right? And then obviously you're saying that the -- that sort of the non-TEN was down $8 million year-over-year in the first quarter.
How should we think about the bucket that is the non-TEN incremental? Okay.
So when you think about the phasing of our marketing programs okay you've got a big piece of TEN in the second quarter.
We just said earlier we've got Snapple Regular Half 'n Half rolling in the second quarter.
We got marketing spend there.
So all of that's going to contribute to pretty heavy spend in Q2.
The rest would be I would guess call it flat.
And we'll update you next quarter.
But call it -- and we're not changing our full year marketing numbers.
So all we're talking about here is timing.
Thank you.
That was our final question.
I now turn the floor back over to Larry for any closing remarks.
All right.
Well I want to thank everybody for joining the call today and especially for your continued interest and investment in Dr Pepper Snapple.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relations.
Carolyn you may begin.
Thank you Paula and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains certain forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Carolyn.
It should come as no surprise to anyone that this was a challenging quarter.
The headwinds facing the CSD category continue.
Consumers remain cautious and the U.S.
saw some of the coldest and wettest weather in recent years.
However against that backdrop our teams continued to execute our strategy and we gained both volume and dollar share in the CSD category.
For the quarter bottler case sales declined 3% on 2 points of price and mix.
Dr Pepper declined 4% and our core brands including our TEN platform while performing much better than the category still declined by 1%.
Hawaiian Punch declined 7% on lower promotional activity and overall category declines.
Mott's grew by 2% and Snapple gained 4% on our recently launched regular Half 'n Half and SnapTea products.
All other brands declined by 3%.
On a year-to-date basis bottler case sales declined 3% on 3 points of price and mix.
Dr Pepper declined 4% and our Core 4 brands were flat.
Hawaiian Punch declined 10% and Mott's grew by 6% as we continue to gain distribution and availability across both our juice and sauce portfolios.
Snapple grew 1%.
All other brands declined by 3%.
On a currency-neutral basis net sales declined 1% for the quarter as favorable price/mix and foreign currency were more than offset by volume declines.
Segment operating profit decreased 3% on the net sales decline as well as higher commodity cost driven primarily by apples a $9 million increase in marketing and a pre-spin related unclaimed property audit settlement of $4.4 million.
Decline was partially offset by year-over-year LIFO benefit of $11 million ongoing productivity improvements and a favorable comparison associated with an $8 million depreciation adjustment recorded last year.
Core EPS was $0.84 for the quarter versus $0.85 in the prior period a 1% decrease.
As we finished the first half of the year I thought I would share a quick update on how we're progressing against our key priorities.
You've heard me say it many times but increasing distribution and availability of our key brands and packages continues to be the single largest opportunity for DPS.
And I'm pleased with the progress we've made so far this year particularly given the challenging environment.
We've held space in both grocery and convenience on core CSDs across key packages.
Snapple continues to gain traction growing ACV by 1 point in grocery and 2 points in convenience.
And Mott's showed a strong gain of just over 3 points in grocery helping to fuel growth on this brand.
We're expanding single-serve availability and creating new sampling occasions with over 15 000 net new fountain valves across both local and national accounts.
We know consumers love our brands and our equity scores reflect just that.
We continue to see gains in both brand relevance and brand strength scores across the portfolio reaffirming that our marketing programs are reaching our target consumers and building brand loyalty.
And from a Rapid Continuous Improvement standpoint we've now identified $142 million in annualized cash productivity savings and our teams are as energized as ever.
They're ensuring that we not only sustain our current progress but also continue to build momentum and drive breakthrough change as we focus on specific core activities within DSD business such as warehousing delivery and merchandising.
It's certainly no secret that the CSD industry is up against tremendous headwinds and consumers are looking for low-calorie alternatives to regular CSDs without sacrificing taste.
And while we're all working toward a 0-calorie all-natural sweetener we must give consumers a solution today and that's why we created the TEN platform.
The national rollout of TEN is well underway.
We've achieved 76% ACV in grocery across our key packages and we'll continue to build distribution and availability based on retailer planogram resets.
We've been strict about not putting TEN in accounts where they haven't give us incremental shelf space and that strategy is working for us.
And we expect TEN to be in full distribution by the end of summer.
Our media campaign which lets consumers know they can get both great taste and only 10 calories will continue to air through the summer creating almost 0.5 billion impressions.
We're also engaging consumers online through Facebook and Twitter and our consumer-generated online videos have generated millions of impressions for TEN.
We've sampled in only 14 key markets and still have 21 markets left to go and have handed out almost 0.5 million cans of TEN.
We're getting positive feedback on both the product and the messaging from consumers and early trial and repeat rates are meeting our internal targets.
More importantly based on Nielsen Homescan Research we know that 51% of TEN's purchases are incremental to the CSD category meaning that we are achieving our goal of bringing lapsed and new users into the category.
We are really pleased with these early results.
As I look to our summer and third trimester marketing plans I'm confident that we will continue to engage our core consumers and build awareness while providing exciting activation programs for our bottling and retail partners.
Dr Pepper and the Core 5 are firing up the grills and tying in with retailers summer thematics driving additional displays and points of interruption in the stores.
Snapple is once again front and center on America's Got Talent the #1 rated summer show.
Judges' cups feature Snapple and our Half 'n Half and "Win nothing instantly!" commercials are airing during the commercial breaks.
Soccer is a major passion point for Hispanic consumers.
So 7UP is sponsoring the 2013 Gold Cup.
We will have 7UP branding on all official Gold Cup material and we'll have an exclusive media buy on Univision during the tournament.
For over 20 years Dr Pepper has been synonymous with college football.
And this year we'll continue the tradition integrating our "/1" campaign.
We'll give away over $1 million in tuition awards this year.
America gets to participate by choosing the students who will compete at each championship game.
Our Core 5 brands are also getting in on the football action partnering with MillerCoors and Mission Foods to build a national football program that will deliver bundled solutions for shoppers' game day needs.
And as the kids go back to school our Mott's lunchbox solutions program will help mom prepare healthy lunches for her kids that includes Mott's juice boxes and snack-and-go sauce pouches.
The program features national media a national FSI and pallet displays around Mott's.
A&amp;W will lead our Core 5 Halloween program featuring a national partnership with Mars and color-changing 8-ounce cans.
And these are just a few of the great things we have planned.
I'll end by saying we operate in a difficult environment with limited visibility but I remain confident in our strategy and in our team's ability to execute it.
With that let me turn the call over to Marty to provide further information on our financial results and our full year guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
Reported net sales for the quarter decreased a little less than 1% and were below our earlier expectations.
With unseasonably wet conditions and cooler temperatures across much of the U.S.
sales volumes declined 4%.
This was partially offset by net pricing and mix of about 1 point each and just under 1 point of unfavorable foreign currency.
Reported gross margins increased slightly to 58% this year from 57.7% last year.
Net pricing and ongoing RCI productivity benefits each increased gross margins by 50 basis points.
Based on our current view of inflation and year-end inventory balances we recorded a $10 million LIFO inventory benefit in the quarter.
This compares to a $1 million LIFO inventory charge in the prior year furthering the year-over-year improvement in gross margins by about 70 basis points.
Higher input costs primarily apples and corn on a constant volume mix basis increased cost of goods by about 2% and reduced year-over-year gross margins by about 80 basis points while certain mix factors including growth from the TEN platform promotional activity in our Packaged Beverages segment reduced gross margins by about 50 basis points.
SG&amp;A excluding depreciation and amortization increased by $20 million for the quarter primarily due to higher marketing investments of $9 million a pre-2008 unclaimed property audit settlement of $4 million unfavorable currency translation and the accelerated recognition of $2 million of pension costs.
Below the operating line depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $6 million in the quarter as we cycled the $8 million pre-separation lease adjustment recorded last year.
Reported operating income decreased by $15 million or 5% from 18.5% of net sales last year to 17.7% of net sales this year.
Net interest expense was flat to last year at $30 million.
Other income net was $41 million in the quarter.
This includes a noncash $38 million charge related to a Canadian tax law change.
This change required us to revalue downward both a balance sheet asset and liability with the credit recorded as other income and the charge recorded as income tax expense.
The net effect was a $12 million noncash reduction of net earnings.
For the quarter our reported tax rate was 48% including the Canadian tax law change that increased our effective rate by 12.3 percentage points.
Our prior year effective rate was 34.3% including a $4 million Canadian deferred tax benefit which we recorded last year.
Moving to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities for the 6 months was $276 million and capital spending was $61 million.
Reported free cash flow was $215 million compared to $401 million [Audio Gap] per year after adjusting last year for the taxes paid on the Coke and Pepsi licensing agreements.
Receivables grew as a result of 1 less collection day in June of this year and payables decreased based on timing of payments.
And on a FIFO inventory basis raw materials increased by $8 million primarily driven by the higher price we paid for apples and a favorable forward buy we did of resin from Mexico.
For the 6 months total distributions to shareholders were $274 million with $126 million in share repurchases and $148 million in dividends.
Before I review our guidance for the full year let me provide a brief update on RCI.
As Larry said momentum continues to build as we focus on the core activities within our DSD business including delivery merchandising and warehousing.
We are making great progress.
And let me give you a few examples.
On our delivery RCI track in our Los Angeles branch we found that our delivery drivers were spending 20% of their day in the branch instead of out in the field.
Using Lean setup reduction tools the team reduced delivery driver check-in and checkout times by 30 minutes per driver.
And using cost-to-serve analysis the team improved stop frequencies by 12%.
On the warehousing RCI track our Irving team developed a dock scheduling solution to plan dock forklift labor 24 hours in advance freeing up almost 13 000 man-hours.
We have similar examples across all of our DSD business units and I am very encouraged by these initial RCI track results.
With $142 million of annualized cash productivity already identified I am confident that RCI will create increasing flexibility and productivity for the business over the long term.
Thereby contributing significantly to further financial improvements.
Now moving on to full year guidance.
As I said earlier net sales for the second quarter did come in below our previous expectations.
And as Larry said although forward visibility is somewhat limited we remain focused on executing our strategy to deliver profitable volume while investing prudently in our brands for the long term.
Considering where we stand year-to-date and our balance-of-year view we now expect net sales growth of about 2%.
And as you saw in this morning's press release we are maintaining our core EPS guidance range of $3.04 to $3.12 but with several changes to our assumptions.
Consistent with our year-to-date performance we continue to expect pricing and mix to be up 2% to 2.5% for the full year.
From a modeling perspective the balance of year will be more heavily weighted towards mix as we've cycled the majority of the Mott's applesauce pricing actions taken during the third quarter of last year.
We do not expect the CSD category headwinds to lessen.
And with 80% of our volume in this category we now expect total sales volume to be down around 1% for the full year.
Also as a reminder volume comparisons are easier in the third quarter as our total system sales volume declined 3% last year and volume down 6% in Packaged Beverages as a result of higher sauce pricing and 2011 CSD promotional activity that we chose not to repeat in the quarter last year.
With greater visibility into apple and corn crops and our overall commodity basket we now expect packaging and ingredients to increase cost of goods sold by about 1.5% on a constant volume mix basis.
And since we now believe our fourth quarter purchases of apples will be at more seasonal historic price levels we now expect to lower our full year LIFO inventory provision by approximately $30 million or another $15 million balance of year.
As Larry said we're very pleased with the early results on our national rollout of Core 4 and RC TEN and we remain committed to investing in excess of $30 million behind this critical launch.
And for your models we've spent almost $23 million through June as we previously said this would be skewed into the first half.
We expect our full year core tax rate which excludes the impact of the Canadian tax law change to be about 37%.
And with continued productivity benefits from RCI capital spending is now expected to be approximately 3% of net sales down from 3.5%.
We also remain committed to repurchase approximately $375 million to $400 million of our common stock in 2013 subject to market condition.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
With increasing category headwinds it's imperative that we reinvigorate the CSD category and bring lapsed and new consumers back to the products they know and love.
As the launch of TEN progresses we're confident that we're doing just that by giving consumers the great taste and full mouthfeel of a regular CSD but with only 10 calories.
We continue to execute against our focused strategy in a very challenging environment ensuring that we build our brands and execute with excellence in the marketplace.
We remain focused on driving profitable growth and delivering value to our consumers while continuing to invest wisely behind our well-loved brands for the long term.
RCI is becoming the foundation of how the organization operates on a daily basis and is delivering solid financial improvements.
And finally we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator we'll take our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You guys talked about how you don't expect the headwinds to lessen for the CSD category over the balance of the year.
I guess could you talk about sort of how you're viewing that in the context of weather versus obesity trends versus what we've seen previously in terms of people doing category switching? And are you implying from that standpoint that all those headwinds continue into the back half of the year and the current trends continue? And then also on top of that can you talk a little bit more about the buildup of distribution of TEN? Do you feel like you're still getting it where you need to be? And will there be some offset from additional distribution in the back half of the year? John I think the biggest point is I don't know if we really are at a point yet we can say what the weather was.
I mean the entire first half was pretty rough.
We're pretty excited about what we're seeing in July.
The weather's improved.
And we've got a good start for July going right now.
When I talk about the headwinds I look at what we keep getting hit with obesity different municipalities that are trying to ban different sized drinks or certain packages or sugared brands.
And then also we stay very concerned with the decline in diets.
Our diets continue to perform below what we see in the category not just ours.
I'm talking about the entire category.
And so those are some things we look at.
And one of the main reasons that we went after being so aggressive with the TEN.
People want better for you but the diets are going down.
Is that the sweeteners? What is it? That's what we're trying to find.
But with the TEN I think we've been able to answer part of that.
The TEN as I mentioned earlier we're ahead of where we thought we would be on ACV.
I think the number is 76%.
We'll have full distribution by the end of the summer.
And that's mainly driven by what we're doing with the planograms with the customers that were late coming in.
And I think all the numbers we're seeing I don't think I know all the numbers we're seeing is ahead of where we thought we would be.
Our trial and our repeat are at the numbers of the high end we wanted to see hit.
And so we still feel very confident that that can help us.
But the biggest piece is going to be that part of the weather that like I have said I'm encouraged that it's 100-and-some degrees here in Texas and they're drinking soft drinks.
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have a little bit of a follow-on question.
Certainly CSDs continue to face pressure and you don't expect this to improve near-term.
So given as you mentioned 80% of your portfolio is skewed in CSDs how are you thinking about changing the makeup of your portfolio? Has this become an increased priority for you to grow your non-carb business maybe faster either organically or via acquisitions? I guess I'd just like to hear how you're thinking about this over the next few years.
Yes I think we'd look at most of it is growing organically.
Never say never on acquiring something.
But we look at -- I mean some of them have such ridiculous multiples that we're not really going to do that.
With 58 brands I think we have a lot in there that we can start doing some programs with that you'll see coming in the back half of the year with some bundling.
But being 80% CSD we will continue a very strong focus on CSDs.
We've already spent $23 million on TEN and we're starting to see the benefits come from it.
We're seeing 51% of the people buying it had left CSDs or have not been a user before.
So we'll stay very focused on being a part of improving the CSD category.
I wish I could wave a magic wand and change it overnight.
It doesn't.
It takes time to change people's consumption habits but I feel very bullish that we've got the programs right now that can.
And our R&amp;D team as everyone else in the industry is working aggressively to come up with a natural sweetener.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of your capital spending as a percentage of sales it's been trending lower over the last few years.
So what have been the key drivers behind this? And then should we expect this trend to continue? I think number one is RCI.
And I'll let Marty answer the rest of it.
Well Larry answered it Bonnie.
I think -- remember we also when we spun out of Cadbury there were some initial investment program IT for example information technology to replace the infrastructure that we were losing from Cadbury.
And that's winding down as we speak.
Handhelds related to our delivery bids and all that technology investment is down.
Our cold drink investment which was an aggressive program as Larry said before we more or less had no presence with vendors and coolers coming out of Cadbury.
That was a 5-year view on our part but lots of RCI activity around effectiveness on those assets that we're finding increasingly opportunities to replace existing assets and curtail the purchase of new assets.
Lots of RCI work in warehousing.
Obviously with less inventory we don't need to spend capital on warehouses nor do we necessarily have to spend capital on racking warehouses in other in-warehouse capital items because we've reduced the level of inventory.
Our first half trends are running really below the 3% I talked about.
We'll sit with 3% now.
But I think we're comfortable that the business can survive just fine at that level or possibly in the future even lower.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just one last quick question if I may.
What percentage of the 76% of the ACV in grocery does your TEN now represent? Did you mention that Larry? Of what percent now? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes what percent...
The TEN is the 76%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Oh okay because in the first quarter I think you mentioned TEN was -- had achieved a certain percentage of that 76%.
Oh no no.
I think what I mentioned in the first quarter we were running the TEN of the total Core trademark was a little over 7%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's increasing? And that's increased a little bit again.
Your next question comes from Steve Powers of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know you plan to spend $30 million incremental on TEN marketing this year.
I guess the first question to clarify.
I thought that was supposed to be fully incremental to last year's base such that overall marketing would be up roughly $30 million plus year-over-year.
First is that still right? I think Steve we actually had about total $25 million up not $30 million.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> $25 million up in total okay okay.
So in the first half you spent essentially in the incremental $11 million with $23 million going to TEN.
So as you look towards the back half I think that implies roughly $10 million more on TEN and about the same amount on others.
Can you just give us a sense for where that spending will occur? And to some extent the split Q3 versus Q4? Yes Steve I'll give you some color on it.
So you've got the numbers more or less correct in terms of balancing your spend.
And again you're right probably upwards of $10 million maybe a little -- $10 million a little -- maybe a little less on TEN.
Look we've got -- Larry talked about all these innovations and activities that we've got marketing dollars behind.
So we fully intend to spend those.
I will tell you though against that we're -- I think we're doing a much better job now looking at our marketing effectiveness.
I'm really pleased by some of the internal data that we've recently seen from some people outside that are helping us with those and finding other ways to actually maybe reduce marketing.
So I'll give you some anecdotes.
The couponing traditional couponing we're finding today that the digital couponing is becoming much more effective.
And that will probably cause us to maybe reduce our production cost of traditional paper coupons for example.
We will always do -- as we look every quarter at what's happening in various local markets where we have specific strategies I'm just going to tell you we're always going to look at that.
And if it doesn't make sense to us mostly from a timing point of view whether it's our market or our bottler markets in terms of execution of retail we've done this in the past.
We want to make sure everything is well integrated.
So I mean we've got lots of great innovation we've got spend behind.
But I'm here to tell you we are always going to look at those numbers hard and make sure that we're getting everything we can out of them particularly in this environment.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's great.
And then this is -- this also maybe a bit technical probably for Marty.
But on the Q1 call I think you said that you didn't anticipate any LIFO reserve adjustments being either positive or negative on the year.
I think it was $7 million positive in Q1 but kind of unusual with the outlook for the year.
Now it's -- they've got another $11 million flowing through this quarter and kind of an incremental $30 million positive on the full year.
And perhaps just a bit of an accounting refresher but what's changed what's driven the revised outlook? And is it fair to assume that benefits EPS by about $0.09 $0.10 versus the Q1 outlook? Okay.
Steve I'm not going to give you an accounting lecture.
But of course the simple method LIFO expenses the dollars of inflation before the actual expense associated with the physical products and the big factor here were apples last year.
And so in essence last year we took a LIFO charge we actually expensed the doubling of the price of apples.
If you think about long before we ever sold any Mott's applesauce that had those apples in them but that's just the way the accounting works.
The reason we had no point of view coming off Q1 is because this is a crop.
Last year's problem was the result of a May freeze.
And therefore the price went up.
And so coming off Q1 it was too early to make a call on what might happen to the price of these commodities.
So now that we're midway through the year we're beyond any possibility of a freeze in the apples orchards [indiscernible].
We're pretty confident that when we now do our seasonal buy of apples coming up here soon that they're going to be more or less half the price they were last year.
That means the inflation is going to be way down.
And under LIFO that means we're going to in essence recapture some of that that we expensed last year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there any double accounting between your 1.5% commodity cost outlook and this LIFO dynamics or are those 2 separate issues in the way you're guiding? Separate.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly I guess more strategically you guys had said in the past you have been looking at different opportunities especially in some of the smaller markets where maybe you could run distribution differently whether -- either optimized through RCI or partnered with other forms of distributors become more structurally changing the way you go to market.
Any progress there that you could share? Yes we've had some down in the southeast part of the United States where we've looked at some of our markets that were -- didn't quite have the scale because of some changes in the Coke and Pepsi system.
We use -- in some of the markets we use beer distributors.
Rodger's got a team that stays focused on what we refer to as the tail markets.
And we've seen tremendous improvement in those.
We also use RCI down there on those markets on how can we go to market more effectively.
And we've seen some real benefits from that too Steve.
Your next question comes from Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> So just want to ask you about the environment.
It's sort of interesting because I believe Coke Pepsi and you have all said that your share is stable to up in CSDs.
And I don't know if you have any data that could back up your commentary.
Did I get that right that your share you thought was up a bit? Right.
On Nielsen our share's up.
That's all from Nielsen volume share and dollar share.
Research Division</strong> And so what is your actual share level at this point? The total share level is -- let me see what the -- the total for all of our brands -- are you looking for something? Research Division</strong> CSDs.
Yes I was just thinking about CSDs yes.
CSDs are somewhere around 21%.
Research Division</strong> And so might the difference just be fountain or is somebody not accurate here? No there's no fountain in there but your private label is really going down big.
[indiscernible] people are going much more for the branded products.
Research Division</strong> That's very interesting.
And why do you think that's happening despite price increases? Are those higher? Well I think with what all of the spend and the awareness and just quality products.
Research Division</strong> So that's good news.
And have you seen the weather -- with the change in weather have you seen the traction take hold in your categories again? The July is starting off encouraging.
Yes we finally got some warm weather.
Research Division</strong> That's good news.
And what are retailers...
Just 3 weeks in we don't know how much of the softness was the consumer and how much was the weather but we should be able to update you on that on the third quarter where we see it at.
Research Division</strong> And what has been the retailer's response to the disappointing volumes in the first half of the year? Have they pushed back on you on shelf space at all? Are they trying to allocate more shelf space to different products? We've been able to hold all of our shelf space with -- on our core products plus incremental shelf space for TEN.
I think if I would say that I'm seeing anything out there Caroline was the retailers were starting to margin up.
And I think they looked at it and said "With us margining up our volumes are down and we're starting to see retailers kind of bring that margin down a little bit kind of reinvesting." If we go back and look at the past before we all got some rational on pricing and disciplined a lot of these retailers would use them as loss leaders.
They would invest in the ads.
But I think everybody kind of found that that was just doing a stock up didn't sell anymore.
And so right now I think we're going to start seeing -- if there's better pricing out there it will be a retailer that is bringing down the margin at certain times.
They've kind of margined up.
I don't think you're going to see any -- again I'll go back to very disciplined pricing very rational.
You could see that in the Nielsen's and I don't know why any of us would change that.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
Just lastly if you could go back to TEN and if you could just repeat because I think you did talk about this.
But what you know about trial repeat? How this looks versus other product introductions just sort of a compare and contrast on this? Yes we said -- we always set our internal targets.
We don't ever share those but we set our internal targets by brands we've seen that have been successful ours and others.
When you look at what we're doing on trial we're exceeding our expectations.
You look at repeat it's slightly above where we set our targets and we're very pleased with that.
Our ACV is at 76%.
That's considerably above where we thought it would be.
And we feel we'll have full distribution by Labor Day.
The next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I guess my question is really on the Dr Pepper brand.
Just that the volume performance -- obviously the category challenges have been there.
But just how are you assessing the brand performance over the last -- you've got a few quarters where you've seen the brand declining in volume.
Maybe talk about the DP TEN versus the core Dr Pepper brand performance and whether you think the spending allocation the investments that you're making on the other core TEN platform has taken some focus or investments away from the Dr Pepper brand itself? And just going forward how are you thinking about the growth prospects for that brand? Yes absolutely.
No we're still very pleased.
We're not happy that Dr Pepper's down.
But when you look at the category where it's performing we're still pleased with that.
We've got -- on Dr Pepper TEN that is completely separate marketing.
It's incremental to what we do on Dr Pepper.
I think you'll see in the second half a lot more activity out there.
We have a very strong third trimester for football with lots of activity.
This time we will tie TEN in with it.
We've just got back from all of our bottling partners with lots of incremental activity for Dr Pepper TEN.
And our brand held scores.
As we get them in we constantly look at that Judy.
Whenever we see softness we want to make sure that it is category not our brand.
We have gained on every one of the scores on our brand.
So we still feel very confident.
I think you're going to also see some improvement in fountain foodservice.
We just picked up the balance of the Wendy's accounts for Dr Pepper and have a hunting permit to get Diet Dr Pepper in them.
So I'm excited about the back half not real thrilled with the first half.
But there's a lot of factors that kind of lean towards that.
But what I can see in the plans we have in place we're excited about what we can do in the back half.
Research Division</strong> And the alignment with your bottling partners on the Dr Pepper TEN product I mean has that been better? And what changes have you made on Dr Pepper [ph]? It's very good.
Yes we're working together.
We've got programs across all of our Queso [ph] our Peso [ph] our independent system.
They're very supportive of it.
We've got programs in place.
And all of us want to see a better back half.
And hopefully don't have the cool and wet weather we had before.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Marty just on the commodity side.
Obviously the outlook has gotten a bit more favorable.
If you look at corn prices and some of the agricultural complex potentially we could see further decline in those commodities.
Can you just share us sort of your perspective on the outlook maybe for end of this year into 2014? Are you starting to layer in more hedges to take advantage of maybe a more favorable pricing? And if to the extent that this more benign commodity environment continues do you still think that the pricing environment will continue to be rational on the beverage category? Judy on the commodity front I'll tell you we have some of our commodities.
We're fairly well hedged to the balance of this year.
And at this point we -- I won't quote numbers but we've got some hedging out into next year already.
With respect to the balance of this year I would say and the reduction from 2% to 1.5% you should all think about that as really a Q3 -- a Q4 factor rather with Q3 still being up about 2%.
Then we're expecting right now a pretty benign year-over-year comparison sort of flat-ish in Q4.
We haven't changed our practices or view of how we think about the hedging.
So we're not fully hedged on a roll-forward basis.
But we are fairly well hedged.
We more recently tend to look at corn as a more seasonal buy.
That was the change we made a year or so ago and that benefited us.
We don't see any pressure coming from the commodity front as far out as we can see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just lastly on your free cash flow guidance I'm not sure if you've updated it but I think the last time the guidance was around $675 million to $700 million.
With say CapEx coming down would it be appropriate to think that free cash flow guidance is also coming up? And whether that perhaps changes how you're thinking about capital allocation in terms of buyback and dividend? I think Judy you're more or less still where we are in terms of free cash flow generation.
If you think about -- where ever your net earnings number is is you're starting point yes reduced capital spending will improve that.
Also to tell you that in the first half numbers which were a little weaker it's -- there's some timing of tax payments.
So we're going to lose a little bit of some tax cash flow and have no impact on our accounting results just because of things like bonus depreciation changing the law at the beginning of the year.
It's been reduced.
And we were taking full advantage of that.
But I'm still comfortable with sort of where your number is.
And no it hasn't changed our allocation.
We're still committed to the $375 million to $400 million of share repurchases and we have plenty of cash to do that.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I mean it looks like the first half run rate is actually a little bit bigger than the full year guidance on the buyback.
Back half will be stronger on share repurchases.
Your next question comes from Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about what the offset is to the change in the LIFO benefit? Because it sounds like commodities are relatively benign relative to the old guidance? So is it just the volume softness or what kind of keeps your guidance the same given the benefits and the LIFO change? Well okay.
So the benefit LIFO change is roughly $0.10.
So in reality it's a softer top line environment.
In essence right now in the near term the LIFO benefit is compensating for that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes that's what I thought.
But it's just the top line.
Everything else seems like it's pretty much similar.
Is that sort of fair? Everything else is in line with our expectations.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then most of my other questions have been answered.
Does the sort of re-franchising of the Coke system I know it's still early days.
I mean how does that impact your business and do you think it's going to be a net benefit or a net detriment or how do you kind of think about that? No I think with the bottlers they've talked about they're all very good partners of ours.
CCR is a very good partner.
I think it will be pretty much business as usual.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
I mean could it help you in some of the places where you're underrepresented like Florida in the southeast for example? Well they've -- if you look at the bottlers they've talked about they all are Dr Pepper bottlers.
And to my previous point you'd say CCR has done a great job.
They're great bottlers great executors.
And I'm very pleased with the bottlers they're thinking about giving them to that are equally as good.
Your next question comes from Mark Swartzberg of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Question for you Larry or Marty more on the category than Dr Pepper per se.
And I'm really focusing on the carbonated component of the larger LRB.
What is your thinking about the long term? Obviously the quarter was difficult for everyone but these are not new issues.
So you have the advantage of not having cola.
So -- and yet your noncolas are not doing as well as you would like.
And you can tease out some weather and more temporary factors.
But do you think this is -- it's right to think the category even can get back to 0? How are you thinking about carbonated in both the cola noncola from a longer-term perspective? Mark I'll start.
Larry may inject some of his own comments.
I think it's a great question because we're all sort of wrapped up in what's happening currently in the marketplace and whatever we all think the impact of the various factors are be it health and wellness be it the consumers/economy.
We went back and looked and you have all of units [ph] that have Nielsens have all of this data.
We actually went back and looked at both volume and retail dollar prices paid for colas and noncolas going back to 2010 because I think that was the earliest period that was restated for Wal-Mart in the Nielsens.
It's very interesting if you look at -- and these are trailing 12 months of full year numbers.
So for calendar '10 cola volumes as reported by Nielsen all channels were down 10.2%.
Noncolas were down 5.4% so they were still down again both being impacted by -- whether it was pricing that was going on during this time frame consumer changes and behavior attitudes would not have presumably mattered for colas versus noncolas.
If you look at dollar spend at retail over that same time frame colas declined 1.7%.
Noncolas were actually up 2.3%.
And this is 12 months '10 versus 12 months ended June 15 this year the latest Nielsen period.
So it's -- it still looks like a negative trend more recent data you would say -- would still say there's some downward slope here but that is a I think still a strong statement over recent past about the strength of the noncola sector of the total category.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So you're in a better place than Coke or Pepsi simply because the other portfolio is situated in the way you've been managing it.
And yet they're still not numbers that anyone would applaud.
So what in your opinion -- because you're making capital spending decisions you're making marketing spend decisions you're making decisions that are far beyond the next 6 months how is your thinking about even just the noncola component potential? How is it different than it was a year ago 3 years ago? I mean this has been going on for a while.
I think [ph] again we'll take the 2010 base that Marty had there.
And I mean Mark we're looking at so many things.
We'd be on this call until dinner time.
But I think one is you've seen what we've done with TEN.
We see we're bringing in people that have left the category or had never even been in the category.
51% of the sales are people that had left or had not been in.
That's very encouraged to us and we'll stay behind that to keep that going.
As I mentioned earlier the work all of us are doing on a natural sweetener.
People love carbonated soft drinks.
They love the bubbles.
They love the flavor but they have concerns about artificial sweeteners.
So we're not oblivious to that.
We're working on that every day and I think we all are.
That will be something that helps.
Another one we're spending an awful lot of time on what our packaging is.
What is the right price point? We're all out there running these 4 4 5 4 [ph].
Well that point of sale has a large dollar ring there that I think could be a stop sign.
So do we need to price differently without bringing price down but it's by packaging it's by channel.
We're spending a lot of time there.
So it's a large combination of items we're putting together.
And I've told you and several before I mean I -- you will always see me with a very strong focus on carbonated soft drinks not only because it's 78% to 79% of our mix but my blood's carbonated.
And I truly truly believe we can turn this around and make this thing work.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And if I could just kind of close that topic.
Simply does it -- you take all that you just said is it fair to say that your view kind of your multi-view -- multi-year view is lower today than it was a few years ago? Are we still -- I presume we're in a negative territory for the larger CSD space and then you're in a comparatively better but still negative territory from the noncola component.
I'd be very wrong if I told you that I didn't think that it was going to be lighter on the CSD especially probably going into 2014.
But we're still not taking our numbers down.
I mean we're going to outperform the category.
With the visibility I mentioned earlier that it's so tough to see right now.
I mean our major goal is that we look out and say we will outperform the category and we build our plans around protecting our margins.
And I think we're going to have a lot more upside in our non-carbs.
As Marty mentioned we're lapping now.
The pricing and everything we had to take with Mott's.
We're seeing better activity with Wal-Mart right now with our Hawaiian Punch.
The Hawaiian Punch has always been a big brand for Wal-Mart a big brand for us and we're both looking at it and saying we need to fix some things there.
So I think we're going to see more growth more focus on growth in the non-carbs and a dedicated approach to profitable volume in CSDs.
This concludes this morning's Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
Well I want to thank everyone for joining the call today and for your continued interest and investment in Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes this morning's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relations.
Carolyn please go ahead.
Thank you Maria and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Carolyn.
Good morning everyone.
I'll start off this morning by saying that we continue to operate in a very challenging environment not only with macroeconomic pressures but more importantly with continued pressures against CSDs.
Throughout the quarter our teams continued to execute our strategy and we continued to invest behind our brands for the long term.
Despite the headwinds we grew volume share while holding dollar share in the highly competitive CSD category.
For the quarter bottler case sales were flat on 3 points of positive mix and price.
Our flagship Dr Pepper brand improved sequentially with volume down 1% in a very challenging category.
Our Core 4 brands were flat including our TEN products.
And I'll give you a brief update on TEN in a moment.
Canada Dry continued its trend and posted strong growth of 8% while both 7UP and Sunkist experienced mid-single digit declines.
Snapple posted a 4% increase with growth from our launch of SnapTea and regular Half 'n Half Lemonade Iced Tea and Hawaiian Punch declined 6%.
Mott's increased 1% driven by applesauce growth and our other brands were flat as a double-digit increase in Peafiel and a high single-digit increase in Schweppes were offset by declines in Crush and other brands.
While it's still early the TEN platform is performing in line with our expectations even though the category is more challenging than we expected.
Trial has met our internal target for the year and repeat is very good.
We've reached 76% ACV in grocery which is in line with the average ACV for the base Core 4 brands in this channel.
Based on Nielsen Homescan Research we know that 51% of TEN's purchases are incremental to the CSD category which means we are bringing lapsed consumers and occasions back to the category.
I've said this many times but it's worth repeating.
We believe this platform is critical because it addresses the caloric intake concerns of consumers who prefer regular CSDs but do not want the added calories.
We remain committed to the success of this strategic platform and we'll continue to make it a priority in 2014.
Year-to-date bottler case sales declined 2% on 3 percentage points of price mix.
Dr Pepper decreased 3% slightly better than overall category trends.
Our Core 4 brands were flat including the launch of the TEN platform.
An 8% increase in Canada Dry was offset by mid-single digit declines in both Sunkist Soda and 7UP.
Year-to-date Hawaiian Punch declined 9% as a result of particular challenges in one major retailer and Snapple increased 2% as inclement weather impacted the brand's results in the first quarter.
Mott's increased 4% year-to-date and all other brands declined 2%.
Moving on to our financial results.
On a currency-neutral basis net sales increased 1% through the quarter on 3 percentage points of favorable mix and price that were partially offset by 1% sales volume decline and higher discounts.
Core income from operations increased 3% while core net income increased 8% and core EPS increased 11%.
As always we've got an impressive lineup of activities scheduled for the fourth quarter to ensure we continue to build brand awareness with our consumers and give our bottling and retail partners something to get excited about.
We've kicked off the college football season stronger than ever with our Dr Pepper Tuition Giveaway program.
Through September we've had over 25 000 tuition video submissions 1.3 million votes and our digital campaign has delivered over 186 million impressions.
Remember that this year America gets to decide who competes in the $100 000 halftime throws during the conference championship games and we'll give away over $1 million in tuition throughout the season.
The Core 5 brands are getting in on football action as well by partnering with MillerCoors and Mission Foods to deliver both shopper and consumer-relevant bundling solutions for consumers' game-day needs.
And it won't stop there.
Core 5 8-ounce cans will feature color-changing packaging just in time for Halloween trick-or-treating.
7UP once again will be sponsoring the Latin GRAMMYs the #2 rated show of the night regardless of language.
We're again teaming up with crossover megastar Enrique Iglesias in giving consumers the chance to attend a private concert with him and tickets to show in Las Vegas.
We also be hosting local GRAMMY street parties in key Hispanic markets.
And our brands will be front and center during the holiday mixer season with incremental points of interruption and retail activation around 7UP Canada Dry and our Schweppes brand.
You've heard me say earlier that we have continued to invest behind our brands for the long term.
And since we've become a public company in 2008 we have increased our marketing investments by over $125 million or 35%.
We will continue to invest behind our consumer-loved brands to ensure their long-term health.
With that let me turn the call over to Marty to provide further information on our financial results and full year guidance.
Thanks Larry.
Good morning everyone.
Reported net sales for the third quarter were up 1% and were below our earlier expectations.
With CSD category headwinds greater than we expected both in regular and even more so in diet CSDs sales volumes declined 1%.
This was offset by positive package and product mix and net pricing aggregating 2 points in the quarter.
Reported gross margins declined 110 basis points in the quarter from 59% last year to 57.9% this year.
Consistent with last quarter and based on our current view of input cost inflation and year-end inventory balances we recorded a $7 million LIFO inventory benefit in the quarter.
This compares to a $7 million LIFO inventory charge in the prior year improving year-over-year gross margin comparison by 90 basis points.
Changes in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter caused us to record a $1 million unrealized mark-to-market gain on commodity hedges all in SG&amp;A.
This compares to an $18 million unrealized mark-to-market gain last year with approximately $15 million included in cost of goods and $3 million in SG&amp;A.
This unfavorable comparison reduced reported gross margins by about 90 basis points.
Higher input costs principally sweeteners increased cost of goods sold by 2% on a constant volume mix basis and reduced year-over-year gross margins by 85 basis points.
We were able to partially offset this by ongoing RCI productivity benefits of about 40 basis points.
And finally package and product mix reduced gross margins by 65 basis points.
Moving down the P&amp;L SG&amp;A for the quarter excluding depreciation increased by $2 million.
This comparison includes the unrealized mark-to-market comparison I just mentioned.
Additionally we recorded $7 million of cost associated with certain restructuring actions taken during the quarter.
We also recorded a $6 million favorable adjustment to a legal provision which we originally recorded back in 2011.
Depreciation and amortization expense decreased this quarter by $1 million.
Reported operating income for the quarter was $300 million compared to $308 million last year.
Excluding items and as shown in the reconciliation table in the press release core operating income of $300 million this quarter was up 3% from $290 million in the prior year.
Core operating profit margin of 19.4% was up almost 50 basis points.
Moving below the operating line.
Net interest expense was $29 million $2 million below last year.
If you had a chance to look at our financial statements you probably noticed that our other income net and tax rate were impacted by certain items.
During the third quarter the IRS concluded their audit of our 2006 to 2008 federal tax returns which included our spinoff.
Based on the results of this audit we recorded a $463 million tax benefit to decrease our liability and we eliminated our indemnity receivable for Mondelez by $430 million.
The net effect was a $33 million noncash increase in net earnings.
Additionally we recorded a $5 million noncash tax charge related to a Mexico court case settlement.
Both of these events have been removed from core earnings.
Our core income tax rate for the quarter was 34.1% in 2013 compared to 36.5% last year.
Moving on to cash flow.
Year-to-date cash from operating activities was $616 million and capital spending was $111 million.
This brings year-to-date reported free cash flow to $505 million on net income of $468 million.
Through September total distributions to our shareholders were $468 million with $243 million in share repurchases and $225 million in dividends.
Now before I review our full year guidance let me provide you with a brief update on RCI.
We're continuing to make great progress against the core activities within our DSD business which has been the area of major focus this year.
Several of our RCI tracks are showing significant productivity savings despite the headwinds facing the CSD category.
We've eliminated waste by aligning merchandising with customer traffic patterns and by implementing centralized regional ordering for all of our point-of-sale programs just to name a couple.
And at the total company level we finished the quarter with the lowest inventory value we have had since we began our RCI journey in February of 2011 proving that changes we are implementing are in fact sustainable.
We've also taken significant miles out of the system by enforcing a plant-direct delivery methodology.
And we've improved safety with a 44% reduction in recorded incidents.
I'm pleased to report that as of end of the third quarter we've achieved our initial financial goal we set for the first 3 years of our continuous improvement journey with over $156 million of realized cash productivity.
Equally important is the level of engagement and momentum we're building across the organization.
This journey of course never ends.
We'll continue to leverage our RCI capabilities to create flexibility and increase productivity across the business for the long term and this will enable additional financial improvements.
Now moving to full year guidance.
With greater-than-anticipated headwinds in the CSD category net sales came in below our revised expectations.
Despite these challenges we remain focused on delivering profitable volume while investing prudently in our brands for the long term.
Considering our year-to-date results and our current view of the fourth quarter we now expect net sales to be about flat for the full year but we are maintaining our core EPS guidance range of $3.04 to $3.12.
On a total company basis we expect net pricing and mix to be up about 2.5% for the full year consistent with our year-to-date results with sales volumes down roughly 2%.
As a reminder the fourth quarter will be heavily weighted towards mix as we've cycled the Mott's applesauce pricing actions taken during the third quarter of last year.
Consistent with year-to-date results the concentrate pricing we took in January will continue to contribute about 50 basis points of growth in the fourth quarter.
We still expect packaging and ingredients to increase cost of goods sold by about 1.5% on a constant volume mix basis.
And since our current purchases of apples are now at more seasonal historic price levels we expect a full year LIFO inventory benefit of just over $30 million or another $8 million benefit in the fourth quarter.
In the fourth quarter we will continue to experience inflation in our field labor costs including health and welfare as we have all year.
But we now expect these cost increases to be fully offset by savings from the restructuring activities we took in the third quarter.
We remain pleased with the early results on our national launch of Core 4 and RC TEN.
And we're on track to invest just over $30 million supporting this critical launch with almost $28 million spent through September.
However with the present weaker overall category performance we have reduced marketing spend in some areas that we do not believe will yield the previously expected returns.
We now expect marketing investments to be up around $5 million or represent about 8% of net sales for the full year.
This will result in a decrease in the fourth quarter since marketing spend is up $14 million year-to-date.
With the conclusion of the IRS audit I just mentioned we will no longer report other income associated with the tax indemnity agreement with Mondelez and you'll need to adjust your models accordingly.
This will also lower our reported tax rate going forward as we will no longer accrue interest on the liability.
Based on these changes we now expect our full year core tax rate to be about 35.5%.
And this is a good rate for you to use in your models going forward.
And finally we continue to expect capital spending to be approximately 3% of net sales and we remain committed to repurchase approximately $375 million to $400 million of our common stock in 2013 subject to market conditions.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
CSDs are currently facing significant pressures and it's critical that the industry brings consumers back to the CSD category.
We believe we are doing just that with the TEN platform and we know it will take time and patience.
We continue to execute against our focused strategy in a very challenging environment ensuring that we build our brands and execute with excellence in the marketplace.
We remain focused on driving profitable growth and delivering value to our consumers while continuing to invest wisely behind our well-loved brands for the long term.
RCI is becoming the foundation for how this organization operates on a daily basis and is delivering solid financial improvement.
And finally we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Wendy Nicholson of Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about your comments Marty just on the advertising spending line.
And while I guess it makes sense to spend a little bit less if you're not getting the payback for it is that a permanent change? Do you think we're going to cycle and lap that $30 million on TEN and spend more against TEN specifically next year? And are you spending more on promotional merchandising as an offset to that? So is total marketing still coming down? Or maybe talk a little bit more about that.
Okay Wendy.
So we're very committed to TEN.
We'll spend the $30 million this year.
We're going to have another significant investment in TEN next year.
We'll talk about that when we get to the end of the year but we're very committed there.
There are a number of areas as we get better and look at our marketing return on investment there are simply areas that right now we don't see paying back.
And I'll tell you in the whole local media area across a number of our brands that only works for us if we get the incremental activity at retail.
And where we don't get it we don't want to spend the local media.
Truthfully eliminating areas of opportunity some of this coming from RCI believe it or not point-of-sale merchandising spending.
We've determined that there's been a lot of excess there and simply waste there and that number initially right now is about $2 million and that number could be a lot greater.
Some trimming of the Dr Pepper coastal programming because again while it's an important strategy for us in this environment right now it doesn't seem to be paying back.
So I would call these near-term adjustments.
But nothing is changing in terms of our strategic point of view on our major initiatives at all.
Research Division</strong> And do you think -- there's not a huge amount of variability in terms of the performance of the various brands 7UP versus A&amp;W but is there a correlation that you can monitor in terms of what you spend against and what kind of payback you get for it sort of on a brand-by-brand basis? Well we do actually look at return by brand.
Although it is interesting because when you get to the Core 4 you do have a little bit of portfolio impact.
We saw that with Sun Drop a year ago when we did a national launch.
We expected it would probably supplant some other activity in some of the core brands and there is a portfolio impact there.
Clearly this year Canada Dry has been a big contributor.
That's been a really good category and we expect that to continue.
And our TEN products have had a positive impact across that whole core.
So there's a little bit of inspection of return by brand but there's also a whole view of how we manage that core as a portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question is on the TEN strategy specifically.
I mean I think the surprise this summer has been that the diet category has slowed as much as it has.
So it doesn't look like this is just a health and wellness concern because diet has slowed as well.
Does that change how you think about TEN at all or does TEN sort of get rescued because it's a hybrid? Or how do you think about that in the light of what we've seen in the diet category? As you said I mean we are shocked at how we've seen the diets decline but I think it encourages us even more on what we can do with the TEN platform.
I think the TEN answers a lot of the questions that people have out there especially whenever they want better-for-you but they don't necessarily care for the mouth feel of a diet or maybe the aftertaste of a diet.
And I think that TEN will be right there for us.
As I mentioned earlier what we're seeing is 51% of our sales from Nielsen Homescan are people that have left the category and came back.
And that's why we're still very bullish and look at this as long term.
If you remember in the beginning when we launched it it's only been out there about 7 8 months right now we said that it takes a long time to change people's consumption habits.
And so we're going to stay behind it and see if we can't kind of pick up some of this decline in diet.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question is -- I mean I think this year it's certainly encouraging to see you stepping up on getting more cost savings the LIFO benefits obviously helping this year.
But I look at your operating profit and it's been pretty stagnant for the last 2 3 years.
And as we look out 2014 I'd be curious to just kind of get your perspective on your confidence level in really growing operating profit in light of the category challenges that you're seeing.
Is there some sense of urgency to really get further cost savings from the business? Is there something you can do further from a capital allocation perspective to really drive better earnings growth.
So just some of those factors that I'm curious to know kind of looking out more at 2014.
Well Judy it's Marty.
It's a little early for us to talk about 2014.
But let me just comment on a few of those points you raised.
Let me make sure everybody is grounded on LIFO.
I saw a lot of conversation in some pre-call notes that were published this morning just so we're all grounded.
So this year we recorded a LIFO benefit.
Last year we took a big large LIFO charge principally related to the higher price for apples that occurred last year as we had the freeze and the price went up.
Want everybody to understand that by recording the benefit this year it's not some sort of non-recurring gain.
It simply adjust the cost of apples to their current pricing.
So it's nothing that we'll have to lap next year.
In essence the cost anomaly if you will occurred last year by accelerating those higher-priced apples through our P&amp;L last year.
In essence that gets neutralized out this year.
So we don't have to lap that next year.
Look in terms of managing cost it's always been a priority and of course it takes on more importance in this top line environment.
I mentioned a few of our RCI wins.
We've got a lot more opportunity there.
I have not -- and framed a new goal a new financial goal for us.
But I can tell you that everywhere we look in the company we see enormous enormous opportunity for productivity improvement.
And I think as many of you know that that this is about a culture building a foundation.
We're not going to try to overly accelerate things because RCI itself is a process and we want to build it and sustain it for the long term.
Over and above RCI this quarter we did do some cost adjustments and we took a $7 million charge for it.
And as I said in my prepared remarks that at least enables us in the fourth quarter to offset some of the cost inflation headwinds.
We'll get some roll over benefit from that next year.
Capital allocation we've taken our capital spending in terms of that element of capital down dramatically over the years and I suspect you'll see that continue.
And in essence we don't have to have the same level of investment in cold drink equipment for example that we've had in the past.
And that's partly because we've gotten to the point of penetrating the market where we need to be and it's also partly due to the fact that even in the single-serve category the cold drink category we're seeing some declines there.
So we're trying to really trim the capital back to also recognize the environment we're in.
And when we think about marketing spend which is a major area of investment and while we're still spending 8% of sales I think you'll see us increasingly think about what the right approach is in our CSD categories where to invest in innovation in TEN where this environment might cause us to rethink some of the historic activities and programs we might have otherwise done and attempt to shift some of those funds to better growth opportunities.
And we'll give you some more color on all of this when we talk about 2014 expectations next quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Larry just on the pricing environment.
Obviously there's been a lot of chatter about the heightened promotional activity that we saw over the Labor Day weekend.
It sounds like in the fourth quarter you still are expecting positive price mix but more skewed towards the mix component.
So just wanted to get your perspective on your assessment about the current pricing environment in -- particularly in the CSD category.
And then as you think about 2014 your ability to continue to deliver positive price mix.
Yes.
Well you're right Judy.
We saw some pretty aggressive pricing primarily in September.
The balance of the quarter was very rational.
We didn't see a lot of change until right there at the end.
We decided not to follow some of that out there.
Some was very deep.
But we're seeing it come back now.
We're also hearing from several retailers there's lots of talk out there that there's some price increase letters coming out and things like that.
We'll watch that closely.
I wouldn't always bank on that.
I look at it as we will do what's right for our brands to continue to deliver value and what the market will take.
As Marty mentioned 2014 still a little early for that but I can tell you this we will remain very rational on our pricing.
As I've said since we went public part of our strategy is we pursue profitable volume.
And that's what we'll be looking for.
Our next question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering as you talk about the mix piece taking on a bigger piece it seems that what you're probably talking about is packaged beverages taking over from a gross standpoint relative to CSDs.
So can you talk a little bit about how we should look at that from a gross margin standpoint? And then also sort of a profit per case standpoint and just walk us through some of the mix impacts.
Okay John.
So it's really product and package you're right.
And there are a lot of moving parts.
And when you focus on packaged beverages where you tend to get this as opposed to the concentrate business you have a lot of factors to consider.
So I'll start with the allied brands can have a big impact which we're doing quite well in particularly in the water category with Fiji coconut water with Vita Coco.
And actually they're very good on the profit line.
Some of them are not so good on a percentage basis on the gross margin line but they actually -- the dollars have dropped to profit are actually quite good.
So those are always a factor.
You know forever we talk about Hawaiian Punch.
It's been down it's been down further than we thought.
We've had a problem with one big customer.
It seems to get a lot of visibility on the top line but I'm here to tell you it doesn't do much in terms of gross margin or operating margin for that matter in terms of packaged beverages.
But it does create -- yes has a mix effect impact on the top line.
And across the CSD portfolio it's really about our view of package mix around the holidays and the larger bulky packages that we tend to sell more so around the holidays and with a little lightness you maybe get some trade-off there against some of the cola drinks.
But there's a lot of moving parts to mix within PB across the carbonateds to noncarbonateds and the brands within each one of those.
So there's a lot of moving pieces to it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up on that going back to the capital allocation piece if we look at CSDs continuing to decline more than people thought maybe not at this current rate how does that make you think about the need to add more non-carbs more non-CSD brands to the portfolio? Well John we look at that constantly.
I mean we know we're skewed heavily 80-20 CSDs.
I can tell you this on our R&amp;D team and on the pipeline for innovation the major focus there is how do we get into more non-carbs how do we get in to more better-for-you.
And then also for the CSD is the sweetener how do we come up with a sweetener? I think the entire industry is working on to help us eliminate these diet declines.
So we're very aware of that.
We'll continue to look at it and I believe you'll see that will be -- start driving most of our growth in that.
We've got our sparkling CSDs and carbonated water is coming out after the first of the year.
We think that's going to do a lot for us we see that category doing well.
But we will stay very focused on it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like more of a build-versus-buy type of bias at this point? Absolutely.
And we also -- it's not that we don't look at them but if the right thing would come along I'd never say never.
But we just stay focused on what we have.
And we think with the 58 brands out there we have a lot of things we can build off of.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
First Marty you talked a little bit about RCI and you've reached to achieve the goals and now there's -- but there's more opportunity going forward.
If you could just talk a little bit about as you've applied it more towards in packaged beverages towards your company-owned bottling operations can you talk a little bit about just where the savings so far have been found.
Meaning manufacturing plant versus warehouse and distribution? And where you think maybe more of the efficiencies are out in the future? Sure.
I'll do best I can Bryan.
So let me give you a quick update.
This year our focus switched to DSD and the core activities within DSD which is really warehousing and delivery.
And before I talk of that I want to remind everybody that when we did we first focused on our Warehouse Direct business just focused on the logistics side of that business.
We took a -- we have a dramatic reduction in our logistics cost per case I mean very dramatic.
And actually that's actually allowed our Warehouse Direct channels actually raise its profits albeit on lower sales again led by principally by Hawaiian Punch.
So it's been a great driver of improved productivity and profitability for our Warehouse Direct business.
We shifted over to DSD and I'll remind everybody that we had the first area of focus was what we call our Pull Replenishment process.
And that's moving our manufacturing plants their production scheduling closer to the market-rated demand.
You just don't build inventory to fill up warehouses you don't run plants to maximize absorption.
That is a no-no in a Lean world.
So you pull you pull to demand.
We've pretty much accomplished that and you see the inventory results on our balance sheet.
Somebody showed me a slide yesterday that amongst 15 beverage and CPG companies we have the highest level of inventory turns of any of them.
So now we move to the functions of DSD in warehousing and delivery.
And as you heard in my prepared remarks a lot of it is there's a complete track around merchandising.
Think about merchandising it's a very important function to our retailer.
And you look at the process and in fact now you overlay the activities of merchandising for example in an environment that's changing.
We're now seeing consumer traffic pattern bearing throughout the month.
Some people call this the "paycheck effect." When people spend and when they don't.
Yet traditionally people that have done merchandising haven't changed their model to reflect that.
We're making those changes right now.
I mentioned direct delivery from plant.
I'll give an example right here in our backyard between Irving Texas and Fort Worth they're not too far away.
We've always had a branch in Fort Worth yet we realize we can deliver to many customers direct out of Irving.
Same thing in Houston but with a number of their branches around that plant and elsewhere throughout the country.
So we've got a number of tracks going on.
Warehousing we have a lot of excess square footage in our warehouses now due to the inventory reduction.
The challenge there will be monetizing that.
We can't exactly cut a warehouse in half and sell the half we're not using.
So we're going to have to figure out over time how to actually reduce the physical footprint.
We're working on that right now.
We've got senior people leading every one of these tracks but what I'll tell you is whatever opportunities we find in a location we simply don't cookie-cutter across the network.
It's not the process we've elected to go through.
Every location puts a team together they take the findings from other areas as a learning but then make sure based on their customer mix their product mix any nuances of their geography that we actually do very specific Kaizen projects to come up with solutions that best work for those locations.
And we're making great progress.
You see it in some of our -- we've expanded operating margins this quarter.
I talked about 40 basis points of productivity at supply chain that's not a small number.
It is clearly providing us a bottom line benefit that's helping enormously given the top line challenges.
Research Division</strong> And so fair to think that if the opportunities going forward are more at the front end of the business so in the merchandising selling and delivery and less backup through the supply chain is that fair? That's fair.
And that's where most of your cost is right? It's selling it's warehousing it's delivery that's where a huge opportunity is.
And we still maintain that there hasn't been across the industry it doesn't appear to us that there's been real meaningful step change and we think we have the opportunity to do that.
But whatever we do we're going to do it in a way -- no big bang fixes no big bang restructuring because we don't think that's the way to do it is to do it with process and make sure that when we're done it's very sustainable.
And so far it's been good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe for Larry and for you Marty the school of thought out there that -- with EBIT being flattish or growing modestly that you can boost -- companies could boost shareholder returns by buying back more stock and you've got other -- there are other companies in your peer group that have even used their balance sheet to buy back stocks.
So could you just think about or update us on your thinking about returning cash to shareholders.
And maybe more specifically just your thoughts around or update us on your thoughts around using the balance sheet to return even more cash to shareholders.
Okay Bryan it's Marty.
I think I'll take that question.
Everybody knows our distribution model right now.
Our model is to distribute all of our free cash flow to our investors.
You know the mix of dividends and share repurchases.
And I've said to many of you as I've visited with you that when it comes to the distribution of free cash flow between those 2 that we like our payout ratio.
But that said we think that we have room to move it up over time meaning to grow it at maybe a faster rate than growth in EPS.
And that's something our board takes up every year they'll take it up again I believe in February.
Otherwise in terms of just limiting our share repurchases now to free cash flow and not using leverage to enhance it we think it's the right thing for us to do right now.
And for the time being we're going to stick with it.
We have a strong balance sheet we want to keep that strong balance sheet.
I've looked at our total returns for new dividends and share repurchases across again a broad-based group of a number of food and beverage companies.
And in essence we're returning our total yield.
I think it was recently last year if you look at our yield plus the net reduction in shares the net effect to buyback put us around 7.2% which is where our free cash yield is.
So we're -- our model today is to give our holders what we would consider sort of a full cash-on-cash return distributed the way I just indicated and don't see the need right now to want to enhance that.
Our next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to go back to diets and the trends that we're seeing.
And I was actually hoping you could talk a little bit more about what you think has been driving the slowdown in diets and then the low-calorie CSD category.
And what do you think is driving the trend? Where do you think these consumers are going? And then finally do you think a natural sweetener blend will be enough to stem some of these declines based on I guess what you're seeing from consumer behavior right now? Yes Bonnie I think what I'm seeing I'll just tell you personally is I'm out in the trade and I talk with consumers and customers I think a lot it is just a misperception of aspartame.
Aspartame is one of the most tested sweeteners on the market and there's never been anything found on it.
The FDA has proven that there's nothing wrong but you have people talking about it causing Alzheimer's it's causing -- makes you want to eat more will increase obesity.
Social media has stepped it up even more than what it was before.
And so I think that's the headwind we have to fight there.
We've got to do a better job of educating people with the facts with the science with -- instead of hearsay.
So that's why I mentioned earlier we stay very very committed to that.
I think TEN especially on our Core TEN the Core 4 with what we're seeing with our early days that it's going to be something that will help us with that.
To get those that have a concern over the full diets that they can come to something with 10 calories and a more mouth feel a more taste of a sugared product.
So it is a concern.
As we look at it I mean we kind of went through our numbers I mean our regular especially with Dr Pepper was looking really good.
The diets' what effected the most of the decline.
So it will be a major focus for us.
I talked earlier about how we're looking at other non-carbs and the sweeteners but don't ever get me wrong this team never gives up on CSDs.
We believe in them.
We think we can get this thing moving especially with TEN and that's why we'll continue to invest behind the brands.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you actually just touch on the distribution of your Core 4 TEN platform I guess versus DP TEN.
Given your ability to possibly better control placements of these brands do you see greater incremental gains for the Core 4 over the long term? Yes I see greater gains there.
It's always -- things are always easier when you have control of it.
And we've been able to do that with the core.
But we also has some great programs put together for our DP TEN.
Jim Johnston and his team have programs out there to help us kind of get it reignited.
It's been out there a little over twice as long as the Core TEN and we see some opportunities there.
But when you look at the Core with us just being out there I think our full national launch was in March already had a 76% ACV in grocery.
We're very very pleased with that.
We've got to keep getting more activity getting people to understand what it is.
The messaging is everything on that.
So again going back to the sweeteners we've got to let people know that these products are good they're safe and they're also fun.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Marty one I wanted to inquire a bit more on Bryan's question and this leverage number is in the neighborhood of 2 a little bit shy of 2.
And can you just help us understand relative to EBITDA can you help us understand a bit more why that is a sacred number? It seems like there's an opportunity when you look at your peer set to have a higher number and yet it sounds like that really is the right number in your mind.
So can you help us understand why that is this threshold? And then the second question is just SG&amp;A was down in the quarter.
Can you give us a little more detail on the components of that decline? Yes sure Mark.
So let's go back to teeing off Bryan's question.
There's nothing magic about the leverage ratio at roughly 2.
We talked early on about targeting actually 2.25x EBITDA but there was nothing solely magical about that.
It does triangulate for us with respect to our long-term our BBB rating with the rating agencies BBB+.
So we want to always pay some attention to that.
We're not -- I'm not here to say we're managing solely for a debt rating that's not the purpose.
But it just happens to fit that ratings matrix.
The real question is is it the right strategy for the company right now to -- I assume your question goes to significant leverage we can always do some marginal things but to add significant leverage solely for the purpose of buying back shares and would that be for real value accretiveness or simply to stairstep EPS all in one year.
And then just reset the bar from where we are today.
Balance sheet flexibility is important to us.
We've talked about it in the past.
We're focused on organic growth.
There could be opportunities out there to use our balance sheet and we would not want to foreclose on that.
I'm not suggesting that we're going to do that but the one thing -- the one good thing about our distribution system is we've got great coverage across the country we see lots of opportunities with new entrants into the beverage space that need distribution.
Our system is maybe more open to new products and brands than maybe the other 2 systems are.
And that gives us a great view of opportunities and some of those could come with some investment for us.
So we think right now the sort of distribution policy around free cash flow maintaining balance sheet flexibility has worked for us.
And so for the time being we're going to stick with that.
SG&amp;A your other question went to I guess the SG&amp;A comparison.
And as I said in my prepared remarks and I guess if you're looking at the reported SG&amp;A we had $7 million of restructuring costs in there the mark-to-market comparison was sort of a negative -- $3 million.
And offsetting that again on a reported basis not on a core basis we had a litigation accrual that we booked back at year-end 2011 and we've been able to adjust that down based on some settlements by about $6 million.
And those are some of the non-recurring type items that flowed through SG&amp;A this year versus last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But even if I'm looking at the right numbers I think on a comparable core basis it was down quite significantly.
And I believe marketing spend was up in the period.
So can you help us a little bit more there? Yes we reduced cost.
I mean that's what we've been doing.
I mean we don't -- I don't necessarily bridge that for you but between the cost reductions that we've been achieving through RCI and some of the additional action we took yes we've lowered cost.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And bonus accruals can you -- is that a component there as well? Not at all.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to get a better sense still of the ROI you see on the spending on TEN and kind of the level of your commitment.
Because the Core 4 volumes remain relatively flat despite all this investment.
And really only Canada Dry was up while the other 3 were down with or even a little bit worse than the category from a volume perspective.
So I'm trying to get underneath what gives you the confidence that you actually spend even more on the TEN franchise? And I ask that purely in the context of what you're saying before that at least the way we see it which is very much in line with how you're seeing it that the health and wellness is shifting from caloric intake more to artificiality and aspartame.
And look aspartame is in TEN it's got Ace-K and HFCS in it too.
But it's in there.
So I'm trying to get a sense of how to tie all that with a sense of -- is it the right thing to do to incrementally spend on this business given the results you've seen? Ali it's Marty.
Let me talk to that.
So when we went into TEN it was clear to us and it's still pretty clear to us although I would say there's been a little bit of change on the diet front but there's still this huge segment of consumers that want caloric intake reduction.
And they really don't care it's a second order question to them about the sweetener.
You're correct more recently it appears right that the aspartame which is in TEN is becoming an increased area of focus but there's still a lot population of people that simply do not want all the calories in a regular product but still want the taste of a regular product.
And I'm -- we don't normally quote too many numbers by brand but I'm here to tell you that if you actually through the third quarter if you actually look at the Core TEN and I'll throw Dr Pepper TEN in there even though that was launched a year ago for the first 9 months we done over 14 million cases.
Now okay in the larger scheme of things in the entire CSD category that may sound small.
Not so small to us and if we accept the Nielsen Homescan data that 51% are coming from outside the category.
I mean this isn't cannibalization of our own brands we know there's some we've probably cannibalized some both regular and Diet Dr Peppers say in the case of DP TEN and with the other brands as well.
But I'll tell you for 1 year not even a year in on the Core TEN and okay maybe we're going on 2 years now on Dr Pepper TEN give or take it is way too -- there's too much positive data here to say that we should somehow pull back.
You're right we have to now be somewhat concerned about whether the aspartame issue is going to have a more negative impact on the TEN expectations for us but we'll talk about our investment spending on this next year.
I haven't quoted a number yet but this is -- in terms of as Larry has said developing consumer awareness getting people to know what this product is I mean we've got repeat purchase rates that are 4 times the rate of trial this is very good.
So we got to get more people to try it.
So it's way too early to be having these conversations.
We're committed to making this work unless and until we see the data that would cause us to think differently and we're not seeing that data today no.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So still a lot of room on the caloric intake dimension based on raising trial for TEN is another way to say what you just said I think.
Sure.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And moving more towards kind of the overall top line I mean you certainly -- as you mentioned took down the top line guidance from 2 to flat which suggests a pretty decent deceleration in Q4.
Would love a little bit more explanation about that you touched on it.
But want to get a little bit underneath that.
Particularly in the context of what Coke as an example insists time and time and time again over the past couple of weeks at least that they're going to raise prices pretty significantly in cities [ph] in North America.
And again you and I will both believe it when we see it.
We'd like that happen.
But what's driving the deceleration in particular in the short term given your Q4 guidance? Well Ali I would just tell you that our guidance for Q4 what we see in Q4 is we're seeing a continuation of the more recent trends.
So that I don't think that sort of talking about flattish revenue performance in the quarter should be a surprise to anybody given where we ended Q3 and given what we see and many of you also see in terms of category performance.
I want to come back though and it comes back to -- because this question is sort of John sort of was talking it about the impact of carbs and non-carbs.
Because we understand the headwinds in carbonated we've talked about our strategies to deal with that.
In non-carb we keep talking about Hawaiian Punch and I'm here to tell you it makes no significant difference on the bottom line.
So for us the growth challenge which is always talked about in terms of the top line we're here to tell you that our focus is turning that into how do we grow operating profitability.
This is where the opportunities in non-carbs in our portfolio today where brands that have on a relative basis small volumes contribute a lot of profit.
We have a saying we could actually make more selling less cases.
And that's true okay.
And we see this clearly in the Warehouse Direct business.
They suffer hugely from the loss of top line from Hawaiian Punch but as they sell more Mott's and applesauce Clamato which has done reasonably well they make a lot of money.
And so the challenge for us is going to be within say the non-carb category where as Larry has said focusing on profitable volume.
And we've talked to many of you about bulk water is not in the cards but making money with Fiji making money with Vita Coco is good for us.
Snapple in the tea category and growing it at the premium level.
The whole Mott's category it's where we're really focused.
The question for us is doing the things that grow operating profit.
Our next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Larry following up on Bonnie's question given the diet struggles and some of the weak CSD trends do you think at some point you may need to adjust your long-term sales growth outlook? And how sustainable do you think the weakness is from this year in CSDs as we look out to 2014 and beyond? And then also can you comment on how close you think you are to cracking the innovation code and commercializing a product with a natural sweetener? Well I think number one if I had that crystal ball that could tell us where this thing's going to be I wouldn't have to be doing this.
Visibility as everyone knows is probably the worst I've ever seen.
As I mentioned earlier we believe in CSDs we think we can stay on this we think TEN is the platform that will help us.
We're going to stay very focused on it.
The diets I mean it's -- this is a new thing that's came up.
I think with the right facts out there we can help turn that back around.
We do that that can get us back into positive territory again.
As far as adjusting my numbers I mean we look at it and we're going to go after every case we can get.
As we get to the fourth quarter and get a little better view of what we think is out there for 2014 we'll update everybody.
The trends definitely told us that we needed to say we were going to be flat basically flat for this year.
But again I'll go back to what Marty said I mean we focus on profitable volume growth operating income and I think you can see where we're going to stay after that to start bringing that trend up better.
Our next question comes from Bill Schmitz from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> How do you feel about the distribution of your structure given how sluggish volumes have been? I mean sort of my broader question is obviously Coke's doing refranchising Pepsi's going to talk about what they're going to do in February.
But it just seems intuitively logical for me to try to get more consolidation even across the brands on the distribution side.
So maybe anything you're kind of working on on that front? And I realize that might be competitively sensitive.
Yes.
I think if you look at what we have here the way our model is set up I mean we are basically 40% company-owned; 40% our bottling partners; 10% Warehouse Direct; and 10% fountain foodservice.
We're very pleased with that.
We think our system works well.
We watch what our competitors are doing out there.
But always remember I mean our competitors today are also our partners and our customers and they're very good partners.
So we get learnings from them and I think they pick up some ideas from us.
But I think we'll stay with where we're at and I think as we've listened I can't comment on what Coke or Pepsi are going to do because I don't really don't know.
But I think we've stayed our course we like it it works well for us and I think it will pay us dividends in the future.
Research Division</strong> Because I mean the reason I asked is just because obviously capacity utilization is probably pressured right now.
And I'm just wondering like longer term do you think there's sort of a need to have a white system? Yes you're going to have to always have a white system.
If you just look at the -- I think people sometimes forget that the number of brands that are in that white system.
And you take in a large percentage of our non-carbs go through that white system a lot of our CSDs other than just Dr Pepper a lot of our brands go through the Coke and Pepsi systems a lot of them are the independent Coke and Pepsi bottlers.
But I don't think you'd ever see where there would not be a third player out there in this market.
So many of these small brands of the startups that Marty mentioned a while ago would have nowhere to go.
So I think it's going to be -- it's sustainable and it'll be here long term.
And thank you.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Larry Young for any closing remarks.
All right.
I'd like to thank everybody for joining us today and your continued interest and investment in the Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
This concludes today's third quarter 2013 earnings call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only mode until after the question-and-answer session.
Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
(Operator Instructions) It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relations.
Carolyn you may begin.
Thank you Laurie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward -looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business in which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Carolyn and good morning everyone.
We're very encouraged by our start in 2014.
The teams once again executed our strategy in the face of continued headwinds against CSDs both in North America and Mexico.
We continue to build our brands bring innovation excitement to our consumers and customers while driving continued productivity throughout the business.
For the quarter bottler case sales declined 1% on two points of positive price of mix with CSDs declining 1% and non-carbs declining 2%.
Our flagship Dr Pepper declined 4% while our Core 4 brands were flat in the quarter.
Canada Dry increased 4% cycling at 8% increase in the prior year and 7 UP was flat in the quarter on increased shipment sales into the Caribbean.
This was offset by a mid-single and low single digit decline on Sunkist and A&amp;W respectively.
Hawaiian Punch declined 8% on category headwinds and increased competitive activity while Snapple grew 2%.
Our Mott's business declined 1% cycling 11% growth in the prior year with our lower applesauce sales partially offsetting growth in our juice business.
All other brands increased 1% for the quarter driven by strong double-digit growth in Peafiel and Schweppes partially offset by a high single digit decline in Squirt as a result of the Mexican sugar tax.
On a currency neutral basis net sales increased 2% in the quarter on 1% shipment volume growth driven primarily by concentrate timing favorable product and package mix and net pricing of 2% that was partially offset by unfavorable segment mix.
Core operating income increased $44 million or 22% on net sales growth lower cost of goods and ongoing productivity improvement.
Core EPS increased 40% in the quarter.
As I shared in our last earning call we kicked off 2014 with an ex citing marketing calendar.
Dr Pepper continued one of a kind messaging featuring Macklemore and Michelle Phan in our anti -resolution campaign with Chelsea Handler created quite the buzz.
Overall our first quarter advertising generated almost 2 billion targeted impressions and through our continued focus on margin return on investment we grew GRPs by 30% in the quarter with media spend up only 10%.
We're bringing refreshment and fun to consumers' summer parties with our limited time offer Dr Pepper Vanilla Float.
And this year Dr Pepper is teaming up with Latino artist Romeo Santos to sponsor the PJ Awards the number one rated Hispanic youth award program.
We'll sponsor a local VIP tour in targeted Hispanic markets and have a consumer sweepstakes where consumers can text to win a trip to the live event.
We're very ex cited about ESPN's recent announcement that Dr Pepper is the first official college football championship partner and presenting sponsor of the new national championship trophy.
College football is the number two watched sport in the U.S.
and is heavily skewed toward our targeted Coke consumer.
Thanks to our partnership Dr Pepper will now be represented from August through January with relevant football content.
Dr Pepper TEN found its match with FX Networks' Archer the manliest spy in history.
Through our new branded entertainment partnership Dr Pepper TEN is giving one winner the chance to experience a once -in-a-lifetime animated walk-on role on the show.
We're engaging the Millennial consumer with 7 UP's Project 7 program allowing consumers to influence where donations are distributed.
We'll also be launching a limited time offer Tropical 7 UP is 16 -ounce cans along with lemon-lime and cherry.
7 UP has partnered with seven electronic dance music DJs including Tiesto to make the brand synonymous with EDM culture.
We'll have on -site activation at key EDM festivals and on -premise EDM sampling packages.
We remain committed to giving consumers options for their changing needs and lifestyle.
We're currently testing naturally sweetened versions of Dr Pepper 7 UP and Canada Dry in a few key markets with select retailers.
We recently launched our new Mott's juice drink with 40% less sugar and no artificial sweeteners.
We have expanded our Mott's [ph] Adults line to include several new flavors giving moms another great solution for on-the -go snacking and new Vita Coco Lemonade brings consumers into the Vita Coco franchise with mainstream flavor.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through our financial results and 2014 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
For the quarter reported net sales increased 1% slightly ahead of our expectations.
Sales volume increased 1% on higher concentrate shipments following lower shipments in the fourth quarter of last year.
Package and product mix combined with net pricing including the impact of the price increase in Mexico to cover the sugar tax increased net sales by two points or roughly one point each.
This was partially offset by one point of unfavorable segment mix at the net sales line due to a higher proportion of concentrate case sales and one point of negative foreign currency.
Reported gross margins were up 320 basis points in the quarter increasing from 57 .2% last year to 60.4% this year.
Changes in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter caused us to record a $12 million unrealized mark-to-market gain on commodity hedges all in cost of goods.
This compares to a $7 million unrealized mark -to market loss a year ago with approximately $6 million recorded in cost of goods and $1 million reported in SG&amp;A.
The net effect of these items increased reported gross margins by approximately 130 basis points.
Lower input costs primarily sweeteners and apples combined with an unfavorable year-over-year LIFO comparison increased gross margins by 150 basis points.
Strong productivity benefits mainly from RCI further increased gross margins by 80 basis points in the quarter while product and package mix reduced gross margins by 40 basis points.
The net impact of the Mexican sugar tax further reduced gross margins by 40 basis points as it will all year as our pricing is intended to cover only the tax.
This was fully offset by favorable concentrate timing.
For the quarter SG&amp;A excluding depreciation decreased by $9 million.
And as we highlighted in our full -year guidance back in February marketing spend declined $7 million notwithstanding an increase in media spend in the quarter as we're leveraging our developing marketing return on investment capabilities to ensure we're getting the best returns we can.
Higher transportation costs from our third-party carriers which was partially driven by tighter than expected system capacity were fully offset by reductions in certain other operating costs lower field related costs resulting from the small restructuring activity we took last July and the unrealized mark-to-market comparison I mentioned earlier.
Depreciation and amortization expense was flat at $29 million.
Reported operating income was $260 million compared to $197 million last year.
Core operating margin of 17 .7 % of core net sales was up almost 300 basis points from 14.8% in the prior year.
Below the operating line net interest expense was $25 million $9 million below last year reflecting the repayment of senior unsecured notes in May of last year an additional interest rate swap entered into in December of last year and favorable adjustments to certain existing interest rate swaps.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 34.3% which is below our guidance for the year as we recorded a $2 million deferred tax benefit as a result of a New York State law change which occurred in the first quarter.
Moving on to cash flow cash from operating activities was $129 million up $52 million.
And capital spending was $37 million compared to $46 million last year.
Reported free cash flow was $92 million compared to $31 million in the prior year.
Total distributions to our shareholders were $135 million with $60 million in shares repurchased during the quarter and $7 5 million in dividends.
In addition to this we prepaid $90 million under a VWAP for shares we will receive at the end of April.
Before I update you on our 2014 guidance let me provide you with a quick update on RCI.
RCI is thriving at DPS.
We've just entered the fourth year of our continuous improvement journey with strong momentum and energy across the entire organization.
And internally we know the runway is endless.
As RCI continues to mature we're leveraging employee -led change to improve productivity and to drive growth.
For 2014 we've created lean leadership tracks led by senior members of the DPS team and supported by RCI experts with the goal of achieving break-through results while creating a set of lean leaders that we believe are unparalleled in our industry.
These tracks are already achieving great results and let me just list a few examples.
By eliminating excess inventory and double handling just this year we've already reduced our warehouse footprint by nearly 0.5 million square feet or about 3%.
In the Columbus market the team closed 20% of voids on Snapple premium achieving almost 12% volume growth on this brand in the month of March.
And against our DSD delivery track in San Diego we reduced driver check -in and check-out times by over 50% enabling us to reduce the number of routes needed by 11% without any impact on customer deliveries.
And these are just a few examples.
We're confident that RCI will continue to create increasing flexibility and productivity while enhancing value for our customers suppliers employees and shareholders over the long-term.
Now moving on to 2014 full-year guidance.
As you saw in this morning's earnings press release we continue to believe that net sales will be flat to up 1% for the year and full -year core earnings per share in the $3.38 to $3.46 range unchanged from our prior guidance.
Consistent with our first quarter performance we expect combined price and mix to be up just over 2%.
As a reminder the higher pricing in Mexico as a result of the sugar tax will contribute approximately 60 basis points of this positive pricing.
And the January 1 concentrate price increase will drive another 40 basis points of growth.
We continue to expect volume to decline over one point with growth in our non-carb portfolio and allied brands partially offsetting continued expected declines in CSDs.
Based on our current view of foreign currency we now expect foreign exchange translation to unfavorably impact net sales and operating profit by approximately 50 basis points each for the full year.
As we communicated previously considering our hedged positions and current market prices for our unhedged positions we expect packaging and ingredients deflation.
This is expected to reduce total cost of goods inclusive of the year-over-year LIFO comparison by approximately 2% on a constant volume mix basis.
Separately and based on our latest projections we expect the Mexico sugar tax which is recorded in cost of goods sold to increase total cost of goods dollars by approximately 1.6%.
The net of all these items should result in full year 2014 gross margins flat to slightly better than last year.
Consistent with our previous expectations higher transportation costs are expected to add $17 million to our cost base in 2014.
People -related costs are expected to increase roughly $30 million for the year reflecting both general inflation in our field labor costs and higher health and welfare costs.
And we continue to expect marketing spend to be approximately 7 .5% of net sales.
Below segment operating profit net interest expense will be around 4.4% on our $2.5 billion of debt and our full-year core tax rate is expected to be approximately 35.5%.
In terms of cash flow capital spending will be approximately 3% of net sales and we are on track to repurchase approximately $37 5 million to $400 million of our common stock in 2014 subject to market conditions.
For your modeling purposes let me highlight a couple of items that will impact quarterly phasing.
First as a reminder the trade expense associated with the higher concentrate sales we experienced in the first quarter will be recognized across the second and third quarters as our third -party bottlers sell through the finished products.
Second packaging and ingredients deflation will be skewed toward the first three quarters of the y ear with an expected more difficult comparison in the fourth quarter.
Third the transportation cost increases will be spread fairly evenly across the year.
And finally people cost inflation including the health and wellness increases will be more pronounced in the third and fourth quarters as we cycle the benefits of last year's restructuring activity combined with lapping certain favorable health and wellness cost true -ups last year.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts: Our 2014 priorities remain unchanged.
We will continue to execute our strategy in a challenging environment ensuring that we build our brands while executing with excellence in the marketplace and driving productivity throughout the business.
We're committed to providing consumers with options to address their evolving needs and lifestyles.
We remain focused on managing the business prudently for the long -term and we'll continue to invest in our brands and our people while ensuring we optimize every dollar we spend.
RCI is the permanent foundation of our business and it continues to drive meaningful improvements.
And importantly we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a couple of just housekeeping things and then just one question related to Mexico.
Marty I think I missed on gross margins for the first quarter what were they or what was it excluding the mark-to-market? Excluding mark-to-market up 190 basis points.
Okay.
And then as we're looking at the gross margin progression over the balance of the year and also I guess revenues for the balance of the year will second quarter have a negative effect on concentrate meaning you shipped ahead of bottler case sales in 1Q will the reversal happen in 2Q or is that more second half? Look we shipped more concentrate in the first quarter which we were hopeful what happened coming out of the fourth quarter we talked to many of you about that.
As I said in my prepared remarks from a revenue perspective the trade we pay to bottlers that comes off the revenue line a larger portion of that will get paid in the second quarter as they turn through the inventory.
Otherwise if you look at the impact of the concentrate shipments in Q1 and that we think came out of Q4 and sort of put those back in the fourth quarter our concentrate business is probably down otherwise pro forma 1% to 1.5% so in line with trends.
April should be a good month comparably because the Easter holiday this year is in April and it occurred in March last year.
So we should have some good comps there.
We've got reasonably good activity planned for the concentrate business well into the second quarter.
Beyond that -- and then we'll be in the midst of the summer selling season and we'll have a good checkpoint with all of you when we get on our call in the third week in July.
Okay and then just the last one in Mexico could you just talk a little bit about -- it was certainly better than we were modeling and just maybe separate the CSD business versus your -- maybe your non-CSD business or maybe a better way to think about it is the part of your business that was impacted by the tax increase and the part that wasn't and how each one of those performed? It seems to me that maybe the part that's not -- not tax-impacted maybe performed better than we were all thinking? Yes and it did.
So when going into the year and sort of not having much visibility to what would happen we built our expectations on that portion of our portfolio that was subject and is subject to the tax to be down in the 8% to 10% range with commensurate price increase on those products.
Those products are about 7 5% of our portfolio total mix in Mexico and those products were down in that 8% to 10% range our price increase was 9% so we more or less offset it.
The good trade for us is Peafiel.
Peafiel is a big brand for us down there and it has a line of mineral waters and they're not sugared of course so they're not subject to the tax and we had really strong growth in the mineral water category with Peafiel and that really helped us.
We've also had some really good innovation under the Peafiel brand and a product called Lemonade and Orangeade and those drove quite a bit of growth for us.
So yes the sugared products were impacted somewhat as expected.
The price increase was sort of as expected and for us at least it looks like about a one-for-one trade.
Offsetting that was favorability in mineral water favorability in Clamato and other products.
The innovation improvement from some of the Peafiel innovation is lapping these products that we introduced later this year so most of those products will have a more difficult comparison as we move through the year but we are really pleased with our performance in Mexico this quarter and in fact over the last two years.
Your next question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Marty I wanted to follow up a little bit on Bryan's question which if I take a look at let's say roughly 180 basis points 190 basis points excluding mark-to-market this quarter as I look at the gross margin over the balance of the year to get to your sort of flat to slightly up gross margin guidance does that imply a pretty big deceleration with gross margin down nicely over the balance of the year and you talked a little bit about Q4.
How much of that is the -- reversing the leverage on the concentrate and it seems like RCI delivered some nice productivity in the quarter.
Is that not sustainable? I guess I'm just having a hard time getting to your gross margin guidance so any further color there would be greatly appreciated.
Sure John no problem.
Well first of all let me -- I mean RCI productivity that is sustainable.
We're not concerned the least bit about that.
There is a deceleration over the quarters particularly when we look out to the fourth quarter.
So I'd say we had about $14 million of unpredicted upside ourselves in the first quarter in a handful of categories including PET and HFCS and juice concentrate and a little bit [ph] in glass in glass.
So as we look out at the balance of the year based on where we're hedged and not hedged for some of those we're taking a conservative view right now in terms of holding our guidance to deflation down to 2%.
It's possible we could come in a little better than that but right now we're not guiding to do better than that.
Okay.
That's great.
And then Larry I wanted to follow up a little bit we heard something from Coke and Pepsi both about maybe the retail pricing environment not really matching up with what the concentrate companies or the bottling arms are being able to put through in terms of pricing at the wholesale level.
So can you talk a little bit about the disc repancies we've seen between some of the reported pricing numbers and some of the scanner data and how you see that playing out over the balance of the year? Thanks.
Yes I think what we've seen a little bit more of here lately or we're seeing is especially in Q1 with the weather there was some activity out there I think trying to drive some traffic.
I think also you were seeing some of the retailers that h ad went back to like a couple years ago and doing a little investing themselves to drive some traffic.
But overall what we're seeing on pricing continues to be very rational and very disciplined.
Great thank you very much.
Let me add to Larry's comment to just as you all try to look at scanner data Nielsen data against our reported data that be reminded about 50% or so of our price mix mostly due to concentrate pricing syrup pricing and fountain and our water brands about 50% of our price mix you'll never pick up in Nielsen.
Your next question comes from the line of Wendy Nicholson of Citi Research.
Hi good morning.
Given that you're expecting more growth to come from the non-carb side of the business can you talk a little bit more number one about Hawaiian Punch it just seems like that business is sort of dying maybe not it's such a slow death but it seems to not grow no matter what you do are you kind of giving up there or what's your strategy on Hawaiian Punch.
And then same thing with Snapple on Snapple specifically it sounds like you've done a fair amount on innovation but can you talk about your advertising strategy specifically with respect to the tea category because I know you're pulling down advertising across the board but is it more or less in tea because that business looks like it maybe has more potential for growth than just about anything else in the portfolio.
Thanks.
Yes I'll start with Hawaiian Punch.
We're not giving up.
We'll never give up on Hawaiian Punch.
It's had some struggles out there on growth but also it's a huge brand there's a lot of volume there that we wouldn't give up on.
I think another thing too Wendy is that when you look at it there's a lot more competition out there.
Now I mean for a long long time I mean Hawaiian Punch was pretty well the player in that -- I like to refer to as a sweet cheap treat.
We're seeing a lot more.
We're seeing Tang out there now Kool-Aid out there private label Tampico there's just a lot more playing there in that part of the aisle.
So we're looking at it.
We're not doing anything silly with it; we're not doing anything with pricing.
We think it's starting to level off a little bit.
It's not as bad as it was.
So we're seeing some improvement on what we've got going with Walmart our largest customer on that.
And so probably won't be back to the growth levels it used to be but it will continue to be profit able for us.
I think on the Snapple you won't see us cut anything back on Snapple.
Our Snapple brand we have a tremendous amount of programs on it not only with the innovation that's coming out but also different marketing.
Again we're following our return on market investment on where it is best to spend.
We're seeing a lot of upside with Snapple on digital.
And so we're going to play that very strong.
The digital plays very well with our under-the-cap that Snapple's famous for.
So we're very bullish on Snapple we've got a lot of great plans and that's one that will stay behind for the long-term.
And is Snapple a business that you're still focused on expanding geographically the distribution because I know it's real strong in some parts of the country but not so much in the others? Exactly.
In my prepared remarks we were talking about how we even used RCI sales and growth.
I think so many times people look at continuous improvement as strictly productivity and cost-cutting.
I mean we look at it and say we're going -- the last plank in ours is we do all of this for growth.
In Columbus we went in there.
I told you the numbers on how we grew Snapple.
That heartland's where we're kind of weaker on the Snapple part the middle of the Midwest and the results that we had in there were just phenomenal.
So we'll continue to go after the Midwest.
Both of our coasts are very very strong with the Snapple so we're going to focus on the Midwest.
And then also we're looking at -- we're still working on what we're doing with the markets we've got over in Hong Kong and Singapore.
We've recently hired a new RSM that will be running Singapore and he'll be looking for an RSM in Hong Kong.
We're going to start getting that staffed up.
We've got meetings with a lot of different distributors over there so we're hoping to see some good results a good building in 2014 and start to see some results in 2015 from our Asian business.
And you're still doing the Snapple K-Cups for Green Mountain is that right? Yes we are.
And how is that business doing? We're very very pleased with it.
And the nice thing we're seeing is not a lot of cannibalization and so it looks like we're picking up new users.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Sanford Bernstein.
I mean it sounds like it was a better quarter than you guys anticipated.
It's certainly a better quarter than us in the market anticipated.
And I still don't understand to answer the question what's driving the conservatism going forward so whether it be taxes that seem sustainable whether it be top line a little bit better.
That seems at least to a certain extent [indiscernible] concentrate sustainable certainly on gross margin.
I'm struggling to understand why especially there you're being a little bit more conservative.
I'll start and let Marty kind of go into the detail.
But Ali I think if you look at -- everybody would agree the visibility is still next to zero with these headwinds we're facing.
We knew when we built our plant we don't do anything by the quarter here.
We operate long term we build annual plans and five-year plans.
And so we see that we're pretty well on track of what we thought was going to be out there.
Marty listed some of the one offs that don't reoccur and so we're pretty bullish on that.
That our numbers are solid our plans are solid and I'll let Marty kind of walk through some details if he has any extras.
Of course I have extras.
[ph] Let me couple I'll come back I'll handle gross margin in a second.
But if you dissect Q1 the way we've dissected it on an EPS basis I would tell you that about $0.04 of upside came from the additional concentrate volume in the quarter.
I would say $0.03 came from COGS improvement over and above our expectation.
About a $0.01 per share equivalent on the interest expense reduction I would say was sort of one-off in the quarter.
The rest came as I said from lower interest rates on shorter term debt.
And about a $0.01 in tax rate from the New York law change.
And so there's about $0.09 in there that came as upside surprised us.
Because I said to John in terms of our cost of goods deflation expectation we're holding it to -- look it's never been spread evenly it was always internally in our view skewed to the first half so there is deceleration.
We're not completely hedged although we're fairly well hedged across the key items say 7 5% or more.
But remember when those hedges were layered in.
Everybody knew corn was really low a year ago in the summer time we didn't lock up all our corn then.
So even in our hedged portfolio it's layered in at much different prices and in some periods higher prices than we experienced in Q1.
So when we look at our data we're comfortable holding our guidance at down 2%.
And on the $0.09 I was surprised to hear why that's not even being carried forward.
Well look as Larry said look at the concentrate it's uncertainty.
Right now it's simply our view of let's look at our macro world.
Nobody's saw the headwinds in the CSD category so we're being cautious there.
Mexico as pleased as we are with Mexico's performance in the first quarter we don't think that story on the category has completely played out.
Many of the price increases were taken later even in January.
We don't even have a full quarter's worth of data yet.
So we're still cautious about Mexico.
We're cautious about the CSD category.
You can say we're cautiously optimistic but nevertheless cautious.
So when we think about our all-in earnings expectations for the year and put that all together at least as of the first quarter which is very early in the year we've held our guidance which is of course is a range.
Okay.
So just switching gears a little bit the concentrate pricing of 5% versus the packaged bev price is a negative 1%.
Can you talk a little bit about that gap and how we should think about that going forward related to the CSD pricing environment and CSD environment you were describing earlier versus the Packaged Beverage environment? So going into the year our assumption which we shared with all of you on pricing where I'll say like packages across the core of our PB portfolio we made no assumption or any price increase for the y ear so we held pricing flat in our expectations.
And so far that appears to be playing out when you strip out the impact of mix so like for -like products more or less the same.
So at least three months into the year we seem to be right on our expectation and Larry said pricing has been rational and that's a good thing.
Yes the concentrate pricing always goes in January 1 nothing odd about this year's.
And with respect to pricing as I said Mexico the big pricing story is the incremental pricing for the sugar tax.
And nothing has really changed in our expectations there on pricing assumptions.
And it's not -- sorry this is my last one.
Is it not at all related? And if you could comment a little bit about the Dr Pepper the flagship DP negative 4% volume.
So that's not really related to the concentrate pricing and if it isn't can you talk a little bit about why that's down 4%? Thanks.
Let me dissect that 4% a little because it is our flagship brand.
When we look at those numbers I would tell you that minus 4% in our best estimation comes in terms of probably 1 point for the holiday shift.
And really this quarter 1 point or so from lower fountain business Dr Pepper is the predominant brand the only brand on the fountain side.
Fountain occasions for CSDs are supported by QSR data are down so that's not surprising.
It appears though internally for us a big part of the shift there is more of that loss at the larger national accounts while we're still getting good growth in local accounts.
And so for us that's a good profit trade-off so the remaining 2% we sort of ascribe to the category.
Thanks.
Then the weather had a huge impact especially January and February.
We're seeing much better March especially with fountain and food service.
We had a lot of QSRs that were shut down in the snow and ice so we feel like we're back on the right track.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus</strong> Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Couple questions here.
First on the SG&amp;A can you talk a little bit more about the $8 million decline? Trying to get a sense how much of that is a symptom of RCI and this continued focus on cost discipline kind of structural in nature and how much if any is timing -related? Perhaps you're putting some more marketing into the summer months than you have in the past.
And then I had a couple of unrelated questions.
Mark good morning.
Now marketing was down year-over-year in total $7 million notwithstanding the higher media spend that Larry talked about.
That's probably the biggest driver which means that any inflation in wages for ex ample and healthcare we were able to beat back with just good cost discipline and in RCI improvements.
It's a fairly simple story.
Nicolaus</strong> Fair enough.
And you're still thinking a $30 million year -on-year decline in marketing this year? Yes we haven't changed our marketing expectation.
Plans are in place it will be $30 million down in dollars and roughly 7 .5% in net sales.
Nicolaus</strong> And I know it's dynamic but as you think about what sounds like some COGS flex and everyone would hope for some revenue upside from a category perspective.
If you think about kind of that dynamic if it plays out in your favor as you move through kind of the peak months do you have a bias towards kind of reducing that amount of cut perhaps putting some more money back into -- have a lower level of decline in marketing? Or is the bias to drop the money to the bottom line? How are you thinking about what seems to be it's early but a favorable start to the year? Mark I'd tell you what we've always said about flexing marketing which is simply that we're spending an inordinate amount of time on marketing return on investment making sure that everything we're putting our money at we can try to predict a fairly good outcome.
And as we've always said we're spending everything that we want to spend right now based on expected returns.
We've talked about shifts we've made based on MROI learnings media just traditional media national media we've done a lot of work recently on improving the effectiveness.
Larry talked about significantly higher GRPs and impression s and really at targeted consumers not at the broad base of consumers cuts in areas at the local level that were just giving us very poor return.
So every time we sit down and review the results we internally make some adjustments based on those outcomes.
And so really doesn't enter into our thinking around well it takes some upside here and spend it over here because if we thought we could spend and get a return we'd already be doing it.
Nicolaus</strong> Got it.
That's great.
That's really great.
Topic change: Single-serve cold obviously a lot of incremental industry focus there.
Can you just share with us how you're thinking about your own posture there? And what I mean is one could argue that you should actively kind of make a stand with one platform or another here ahead of kind of the greater availability of different options out there.
Or one could argue that you should take a more kind of a wait-and-see approach and see what's validated kind of more at the consumer level considering at this stage there's a relatively a small amount of single-serve cold that's actually sold out there and bought by consumers.
So can you just talk a little bit about how you're thinking about your optionality as these platforms are obviously going to become more and more of an emphasis and more available to consumers? So you're talking about the K-cups or? Nicolaus</strong> Well I'm talking about the cold to be specific current cold is going to be out there it's coming.
Obviously SodaStream is out there and available but there's a number of platforms that are either in the marketplace today or are going to be in the marketplace over the next kind of 12 months 18 months on the cold side.
And you were there with the Snapple product in the Keurig hot machine and of course you can turn it into an iced tea but there's optionality for you all with your carbonated products and certainly with your non-carbonated products to be making a stand here either with Keurig platform or the SodaStream platform or some other platform as this emphasis on cold products becomes increased and I'm just wondering how you're thinking about your position in that.
Oh yes we look at it constantly Mark.
Every one of them that are out there.
I mean they've been in and seen us we've looked at them I mean we were one of the first to go in with Keurig with the Snapple.
As I said it was very successful.
But we don't spend as much of our time on that as we do staying with our strategy on our cold drink up and down the street.
We still have a tremendous amount of distribution and availability opportunities out there.
As these new platforms come along you can rest assured we'll be right there with them we'll be looking at it seeing if it makes sense for our brands for our partners but I think there are little ways -- I think they may be farther away than what you're even thinking on 15 months 18 months.
I mean that's something that especially with us we will never put any one of our bran ds in any platform that doesn't have the taste and the profile that people are used to.
And so we look at them but we're also very fixed on they have to be perfect.
Nicolaus</strong> That's great.
Great.
Final question; just capital return Larry you made the comment and the data and the behavior certainly supports this that you remain committed to returning a good bit of cash to shareholders.
You're now below two times EBITDA leverage.
I mean as you think about and maybe this is for you Marty but as you think about kind of that commitment do you think maybe there's an opportunity to have a leveraged target in excess of two times or you know making it even clearer what your level of commitment is to kind of deliver even further on those practices you've had to-date? I'll start and let Marty finish up on that.
But I think from what we can see our shareholder base is very pleased with how we have ours allocated.
Our board they love having this problem every meeting on what are they going to do with the money which way does it go and so we're happy where we're at right now but I'll let Marty kind of give you detail on that.
Mark we think our debt is comfortably where it should be.
Don't forget too on a pro forma basis which is the way we look at it when we put off balance sheet leads us back on the balance sheet for ex ample pro forma basis our leverage is much higher and we're cognizant that -- not that it's uncomfortable and not that it couldn't be higher except that we think we're at the right lever age ratio.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Cooper of Consumer Edge Research.
Good morning guys.
A couple of questions.
The first would be on pricing in the U.S.
There's been some discussion that there may be incremental pricing taken by your competition over the balance of the year.
I was just wondering what your I guess willingness would be to follow that pricing where you are the bottler if that actually comes through given the weakness in the category? And then I have a separate question.
Like we said we didn't plan any pricing for this year and we've heard the same things you have but we haven't seen anything on pricing.
We look at it across our geographic territories.
We look at it on what the consumer and the customer can take.
And we make our decisions more off of that.
I think the pricing environment as I said earlier is still very rational.
I don't know -- if the pricing was to go up absolutely we would follow if we felt it was the right thing for our customer and our consumer.
Okay great.
And then a follow-up I think if I heard you correctly in the prepared remarks you said media was up marketing was down is that the relationship we should expect to see for the full year? Not necessarily at that level.
So there is some phasing in there but not necessarily at that level.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
Let me come back to Larry's point on pricing just for a moment because the market is very competitive and pricing is really a market -based decision.
However from our point of view our assumption is flat pricing you look at our cost projection trends I think we're the only one of our main competitors that's actually projecting COGS deflation.
We've got our other costs well under control and coming down.
So actually when you look at it from an internal point of view we're under no pressure to do anything with pricing from a profitability point of view.
If others are in a different position one of our choices will always be to take advantage of that.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers of UBS.
Hey guys.
I guess following on the pricing theme.
Maybe it's more of a philosophical question but why is kind of flat wholesale pricing on like -for-like SKUs rational in a market that's I think by most people's observation would be characterized as sub -optimally profitable.
And I guess the question really is is the elasticity really that severe on the bottom-line impact that a bit more incremental pricing wouldn't be beneficial to everybody? Steve you just hit it you answered your own question we look at this all the time.
We run our elasticity models all the time and what we're always trying to do is find the optimal point at which we maximize our profits meaning the volume price trade-off.
We do this all the time.
I'm sure others do it as well.
So it's not about the price point per se not moving whether that's rational it's about the net impact of what a pricing movement will do to the overall business.
Okay.
All right.
I'll leave it there.
I guess on the volume side negative 1% CSD volumes in the quarter maybe negative 2% if you strip out Mexico.
Is it fair to say that's a little bit better than you would have expected coming into the quarter? I think you know Larry when we last spoke you were looking at kind of category growth rates of like a negative 3% run rate being kind of the foreseeable CAGR going forward.
So how do you view the first quarter? Are you more optimistic now than you were in early March or do you hold out a lot of reservation that we might slip back more negative than we're running at now? Oh I think biggest piece we've got to go back and remember the timing of the concentrate shipments for the total.
For the year we basically planned -- we looked at CSDs being down around 2% 1.82% which if we take all the adjustments the weather the shipments and everything we were pretty close.
We were right on where we thought we would be.
No one knows ex act impact of the weather but I mean everybody knows January February were tough it was tough.
So we think we're on track with that.
We think that the volume will come back.
The pricing environment everybody's not had the pressure on COGS and commodities.
And I think the big thing now is instead of just pricing when I say pricing is rational I mean you've still got to look and say what is the activity the promotional activity that's going on.
The pricing is set but then where do you get the right activity and I think right now another one that makes it tough reading some of the Nielsen's data for a week is that we went back to the old days where most of our sales are in the first 10 days of the month and that tells you the economy is still tough out there and the consumer is very price -conscious.
So any pricing at this time I think would really stand out.
So that seems to make it less likely you would follow -- if I put all those comments together on pricing it seems less likely that you would follow an industry price increase than given all that given your internal cost profile given your view of the consumer is that a fair read? I've never [ph] not followed sometimes even leads.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Congratulations on this quarter.
It's amazing.
I'm just struggling to understand if I look at the almost 5% price mix in concentrate how much of that might have been driven by the timing of shipments.
And similarly on the volume growth within concentrate.
Can you help me with that? It's related to the shipment increase.
As I said in my prepared remarks not only did we have the volume but the rate per case if you will on each of those concentrate cases is much higher than on our I'll c all our net rate net of trade spend because we have to deal back the agreed funding back to the bottlers but we only accrue that when we get the data that reflects the product which actually sold into retail and that will lag.
You said $0.04 a share or so from that but within the price mix and volume can you help us -- because it sounds like it's going to come out of the second quarter.
Right.
And I said $0.04 I put in that $0.04 both the impact of the volume itself and if you will the delayed impact of the discounts is all in the $0.04.
Okay.
And again getting back to this issue of not raising the full year guidance it really sounds like it's only the $0.04 that really maybe should not go into the higher full year number if all else were equal with our estimates.
No not necessarily.
I called out a couple of other things in the quarter right like the higher -than-expected deflation in COGS.
Yes.
But what I mean is that doesn't reverse it's not going to come back to bite you.
It's just all else should stay the same for our estimates I think.
Let's see what happens for concentrated shipments in the fourth quarter in December right? Because that's always an unpredictable number for us even going into the fourth quarter in terms of what bottlers buy before the end of the year after the end of the year whether it's a decision made on buying ahead of the price increase whether it's a decision made on how they want to end the year on their inventories.
Okay.
And last year of course December was really weak.
Right right.
Okay and then similarly within the price mix in Latin America I know you said you took a 9% increase or so to cover the sugared part of the portfolio but within that 15% how much of the price mix do you think we can say is sustainable through the year of that increase? The sugar tax increase so far we expect to maintain itself.
There's nothing to indicate at this point that that would change and again we're only pricing through the tax we're not creating margin on the tax.
All other pricing in Mexico was otherwise low.
But you got 15% price mix so some of that was mix? Well absolutely.
Absolutely.
Especially with that tax Caroline it stands out much more on the 2 liter and 3 liter packages so we saw much more activity on the 0.6%.
Right.
So it sounds like you're massively advantaged by having water number one and the innovation on water but it actually sounds like price mix should be very good for the balance of the year in Mexico.
Well as Larry said there's a good package trade down to the smaller bottle sizes...
Yes.
From the large multi -liter bottle sizes and you're right I mean Peafiel is -- the mineral water category for Peafiel is a good upside surprise but the carbonated portfolio Squirt is our biggest carbonated brand I mean that was down not surprising to us double -digits.
Part of that's in our system part of that is in other bottler systems.
So there are still some challenges inside that portfolio.
Got it.
No that makes sense.
Just finally I wanted to ask about risk of sugar taxes coming to the U.S.
and how you're monitoring that because we think state and local governments here will be watching what happens in Mexico and if volume goes down on sugared beverages they could argue that's good for obesity and et cetera et cetera.
And what are you doing about that proactively? Well we stay very involved in not only nationally but every state and local municipalities with the American Beverage Association Rodger and Jim both are two presidents are on the board Randy Downing our head of government affairs we're constantly monitoring each one of them we're very well-funded.
I think we've been knock on wood very successful on all of them that have come up.
So again it's one that we're always cautious on but we feel we're in a very very good position to protect us from anything that would harm our industry.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
So just wanted to go back to the Dr Pepper brand performance and understand that obviously there's some timing issues here but the brand was lapping pretty easy comp 3% and if I look back in our numbers the brand really hasn't grown for I think the past eight quarters or so so I'm just really trying to understand why you shouldn't be more concerned about the brand itself if you can speak to the core health of the brand maybe stripping out the TEN performance and then in addition to that in some of the test markets where you've launched natural sweetened products can you just give us a little bit more details around what you've learned and how much is that incremental to the brand itself as opposed to maybe getting more cannibalization? Judy our brand and health scores on Dr Pepper are just continuing to increase.
I don't ever like to see the brand to be down but whenever I look at it and understand the conditions what drove it what programs we have in place to bring it back and what we're doing with the marketing programs the TEN we've got a lot of great programs going together on TEN as I mentioned we're going on FX and got some activities there.
We've had some great meetings with our bottling partners with activity that's just kind of started in March on TEN.
We've got a lot of things happening with Dr Pepper the numbers were light coming in but I can show you where the majority of that was January and February which was just tremendously impacted by weather and tremendously impacted by the QSR being down in our fountain food service.
So we always watch it very closely but when we look at our brand health scores we look at the activity we have in place we're very comfortable with it.
We also have some LTOs coming up that'll be starting here before long that I mentioned earlier with our Vanilla Dr Pepper that we're very very bullish on our bottlers are ex cited about it so we're looking forward to that.
And then on the naturals with them just launching Judy it's just way way too early.
We just got them out the end of March/April 1.
We're doing this very laser -like.
We have specific retailers in specific geographic territories.
We will be going in and they were all set direct we will be going in and getting the information from that customer and from the consumer.
We want to really understand it completely before we really start making any decisions to get any bigger or to expand and when we have that; we'll share with you just as soon as we get all that information in.
And just to follow-up on that is that going through the Coke and Pepsi bottlers the natural sweetened products? No we sent the test out direct as a test.
Okay.
And are you following kind of a similar strategy with the TEN where you would only go into the retailer if they're going to give you the incremental space as opposed to getting the existing products out? That's the information we're finding from the test.
We want to know where should it be.
Should it be in the normal CSD section should it be in the natural foods should it be standalone display should it be stackers.
That's what we're doing right now.
We have it in different places.
We're seeing where the best results were.
And so we've made no decisions on how we will do this until we get the data back in that tells us where it was most successful.
We've reached the allotted time for questions and answers.
I'll now return the call to management for any additional or closing remarks.
All right I want to thank everybody for joining us today on the call and for your continued interest and investment in the Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for participating in Dr Pepper Snapple Group's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Heather Catelotti Vice President Investor Relations.
Heather you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Heather and good morning everyone.
We've had a good first half of the year in what I've said is the most challenging CSD environment I've ever seen.
Despite the headwinds our teams continued to remain focused against our priorities and we achieved another solid quarter of results.
And as you may have read in this morning's press release we've raised our full year EPS guidance by $0.05 to reflect our first half performance while remaining cautious on the CSD category over the balance of the year.
For the quarter bottler case sales increased 1% on roughly 3 points of positive mix in price with CSDs increasing 2% and non-carbs declining 4% primarily the result of the 12% decline in Hawaiian Punch.
Dr Pepper decreased 1% in the quarter reflecting sequential improvement from the last quarter.
Our Core 4 brands increased 2% in the quarter led by continued strong growth in Canada Dry.
Both 7UP and Sunkist were flat in the quarter.
As I've said Hawaiian Punch declined 12% on category headwinds and increased competitive activity.
Snapple decreased 3% as we strategically deprioritized our value line.
Our Snapple Premium business grew by 1% in the quarter.
Mott's was flat in the quarter as declines in the sauce business offset growth in juice.
Peafiel increased 25% as we continued to see strong performance in our mineral water business and successful innovation that we launched in the third quarter of last year.
All other brands increased by 1% in the quarter.
Schweppes experienced strong double-digit growth reflecting growth in our sparkling waters and positive ginger ale category trends.
Clamato grew 8% in the quarter and our water category increased 4% on strong growth in both Fiji and Vita Coco as well as new distribution agreements with Bai 5 and Sparkling Fruit2O.
On a year-to-date basis bottler case sales are flat on 2 points of positive mix in price.
Dr Pepper declined 2% and our Core 4 brands increased 1%.
Hawaiian Punch declined 10% while both Snapple and Mott's decreased 1%.
Peafiel increased 22% and all other brands were flat.
On a currency-neutral basis net sales increased 2% in the quarter on sales volume growth favorable product and package mix and pricing.
This growth was partially offset by an unfavorable trading discount comparison to last year.
Core operating income increased 18% on sales growth lower cost of goods a planned decrease in marketing investment and ongoing productivity improvements.
Core EPS increased 26% in the quarter.
Year-to-date currency net sales increased 2% core income from operations increased 19% and core EPS increased 31%.
Now through the first half of the year.
I thought I'd share a quick update on how we're progressing against our key priorities.
Increasing distribution on availability of our key brands and packages continues to be a significant opportunity for us.
Year-to-date we've increased distribution in grocery on both key CSD brands and packages and on Snapple.
We've also gained almost 2 points of ACV on Snapple Premium in the convenience channel and just under 2 points of ACV on Mott's in the grocery channel.
We're continuing to expand single-serve availability while creating new sampling locations for our brands with over 20 000 new fountain valves across both local and national accounts.
As a result our fountain foodservice business grew 2% in the quarter.
We're also redeploying cold drink equipment assets across our DSD footprint ensuring that we're maximizing our return.
Our brands are well loved by consumers and our equity scores reflect just that.
We continue to see gains in our equity scores across the portfolio with improvements in both brand relevance and brand strength reinforcing the effectiveness of our marketing programs.
As consumers' needs and preferences continue to evolve we're ensuring that we're meeting their needs with a portfolio of products.
Our R&amp;D team continues to make progress in the sweetener development area though we've said before that there is no magic bullet and this will be an evolution that occurs over time.
Our TEN platform continues to drive incremental consumer occasions bringing lapsed users back into the category with its great taste and full-mouth feel for only 10 calories per can.
And we're currently testing naturally sweetened CSDs for consumers who are looking for a lower calorie option without artificial sweeteners.
Our naturally sweetened CSDs contain real sugar and Stevia and are 60 calories per 12-ounce can.
RCI continues to drive improvement in all RCI pillars: safety quality delivery productivity and growth.
And I couldn't be more pleased with the engagement of our people in achieving these results.
Marty will provide you more color a little later.
We had a strong programming throughout the first half of the year.
And as I look towards our back half calendar I'm confident that we have strong plans in place to drive engagement and excitement with our consumers and our customers.
Summer is a time for entertaining and refreshment and I've hoped you've seen and tried our Dr Pepper Vanilla Float limited time offering.
This is currently out in the market.
The PJ Awards is the #1 Hispanic youth award program.
This summer Dr Pepper partnered with the PJ for the fifth straight year and Romeo Santos a popular Latin artist to give away VIP trips to the award shows that aired last week.
7UP has partnered with 7 electronic dance music DJs including world-renowned Tisto to make the brand synonymous with the growing EDM culture.
Our 7UP Light it Up campaign launched in early summer and has already delivered millions of targeted impressions with Hispanic millennial consumer and our fan base continues to grow on the 7UP Facebook page.
Snapple's partnership with America's Got Talent is in full swing delivering millions of impressions during the shows and through our digital specific campaign.
And we just announced a 3-year sponsorship agreement with the San Francisco Giants last week which will give Snapple pouring rights in AT&amp;T Park and bring Snapple teas and juices to thirsty Giants fans.
We're ready to kick off the 2014 college football season with an exciting partnership with ESPN.
Dr Pepper is the first official college football championship partner and presenting sponsor of the new National Championship trophy.
We'll deliver over 2 billion media impressions across both traditional and digital media platforms ensuring that we're always on.
And our tuition giveaway program will also be integrated with the ESPN properties this year.
And just in time for back-to-school we're reaching shopper mall and supporting schools with our participation in the Box Tops for Education program with Mott's.
I'm sure you'll agree that our plans are stronger than ever.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through our financial results and 2014 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
For the quarter reported net sales increased 1%.
Package and product mix combined with pricing including the impact of the price increase in Mexico to cover the sugar tax increased net sales by roughly 3 points.
This was partially offset by higher discounts mostly due to an unfavorable comparison of our annual drop of trade spending and also 1 point of negative foreign currency.
Reported gross margins were up 120 basis points in the quarter increasing from 58% last year to 59.2% this year.
Lower commodity costs net of the year-over-year LIFO impact increased gross margins by 160 basis points.
RCI productivity and other cost improvements further increased gross margins by 65 basis points.
Product and package mix which includes growth in products bought from allied brand partners reduced gross margins by 60 basis points.
And the unfavorable trade discount adjustment I referred to earlier reduced gross margins by about 40 basis points.
The net impact of the Mexican sugar tax further reduced gross margins by 45 basis points as our pricing as intended is only a pass-through of the tax.
There were no material mark-to-market commodity gains or losses this quarter.
However we did record a $7 million unrealized mark-to-market loss a year ago with approximately $5 million recorded in cost of goods and $2 million reported in SG&amp;A.
The net effect on gross margins was a 30 basis point increase.
For the quarter SG&amp;A excluding depreciation decreased by $27 million.
As we highlighted in our full year guidance marketing spend declined $18 million as we lapped activity on Core 4 TEN last year.
Second quarter marketing spend represented 7.8% of second quarter sales slightly ahead of our full year target of 7.5%.
Other favorable SG&amp;A comparisons include $3 million of foreign currency and the unrealized mark-to-market comparison I just mentioned.
Last year's SG&amp;A included an unclaimed property audit settlement of $4 million.
We were able to fairly well offset SG&amp;A labor and other cost inflation including higher transportation costs from our third-party carriers by other cost and productivity improvements.
Depreciation and amortization was flat at $29 million.
Other operating income was $3 million in the quarter versus $2 million of expense in the prior year driven by the sale of certain warehouses a direct result of RCI supply chain improvements.
Reported operating income was $348 million compared to $285 million last year.
Core operating margin of 21.3% of net sales was up 290 basis points from 18.4% in the prior year.
Below the operating line net interest expense was $27 million $3 million below last year reflecting an interest rate swap we entered into in December of last year and the repayment of senior unsecured notes in May of 2013.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 35.1% slightly lower than expected.
Now moving on to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities for the 6 months was $438 million up $143 million and capital spending was $71 million compared to $80 million last year.
Reported free cash flow was $367 million compared to $215 million last year.
Total distributions to our shareholders year-to-date were $363 million with $206 million in shares repurchased and $157 million in dividends.
Before I move on to guidance let me give you a quick update on RCI.
RCI is beginning to become a permanent foundation of our business.
Actually the way we do business.
And it continues to drive significant value throughout the organization.
We've created lean leadership tracks led by senior managers in the company to not only drive meaningful results but to also create a set of lean leaders and frontline excellence throughout the business.
I'll share some of the wins we've seen so far this year.
First we've closed over 4 000 voids on our Snapple business across several markets achieving sales growth in each of those markets outperforming national brand results.
Second we've added over 30 000 incremental points of distribution across our single-serve juice portfolio driving double-digit dollar share growth in the single-serve multipack juice segment.
Third we've even included one of our Dr Pepper distribution partners on an RCI event targeted at increasing our display tie-in rates and are seeing much improved results in that market.
And fourth we closed about 650 000 square feet of unnecessary warehouse space this year and as you saw in our financials realized about $5 million of cash proceeds.
These are just a few examples.
We continue to believe our runway is long and we have significant further RCI opportunities.
Now moving on to 2014 full year guidance.
As you saw in this morning's release we have now raised our full year core EPS guidance to a range of $3.43 to $3.51 based on stronger-than-expected first half performance.
While we're very encouraged on many of our key initiatives as well as our balance-of-year plans we are still remaining cautious on the macro and category environments in the U.S.
For the year we still expect volume to decline roughly 1 point with CSDs declining slightly and our non-carb portfolio declining low-single digits although this continues to be a Hawaiian Punch-driven issue.
From a CSD standpoint we do expect concentrate shipments which have trended ahead of bottler case sales to soften somewhat in the back half.
We continue to expect combined price and mix to be up about 2% for the full year.
As a reminder the higher pricing in Mexico as a result of the sugar tax will contribute approximately 60 basis points of this positive pricing but will not contribute earnings growth as it is simply a pass-through of the tax.
Our January 1 concentrate price increase will drive another 40 basis points of growth.
We expect foreign exchange translation to unfavorably impact net sales and operating profit by approximately 50 basis points each for the full year.
As we communicated previously we expect packaging and ingredients deflation for the year.
This is expected to reduce total cost of goods inclusive of the year-over-year LIFO comparison by approximately 2% on a constant volume mix basis.
However this deflation will be realized during the first 3 quarters of the year.
Just over 1% inflation is expected in the fourth quarter.
As a reminder we recorded a $14 million LIFO credit in the fourth quarter last year.
Similarly we booked a LIFO credit of $7 million in the third quarter of last year.
We will not have any similar credits this year.
Separately we expect the Mexico sugar tax which is recorded in cost of goods sold to increase total cost of goods by approximately 1.6%.
After considering all of these items 2014 gross margin should be flat to slightly better than last year.
Consistent with our previous expectations higher transportation costs are expected to add $17 million of expense in 2014 and are being incurred evenly throughout the year.
People cost inflation of $30 million for the full year including health and wellness cost increases will be significantly more pronounced in the third and fourth quarters as we cycle the benefits of last year's restructuring activity combined with lapping certain favorable health and wellness cost true-ups in last year's fourth quarter.
And we continue to expect marketing spend to be approximately 7.5% of net sales.
Below segment operating profit net interest expense will be around 4.4% on our $2.5 billion of debt.
And our full year core tax rate is expected to be approximately 35.5%.
In terms of cash flow capital spending will be approximately 3% of net sales.
And we are on track to repurchase approximately $375 million to $400 million of our common stock in 2014 subject of course to market conditions.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts: Our priorities remain unchanged.
We will continue to execute our strategy in a challenging environment ensuring that we build our brands while executing with excellence in the marketplace and driving productivity throughout the business.
We're committed to providing consumers with options to address their evolving needs and lifestyles.
We remain focused on managing the business prudently for the long term.
And we'll continue to invest in our brands and our people while ensuring we optimize every dollar we spend.
RCI continues to drive meaningful improvements in the organization.
And importantly we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Marty I want to sort of follow up on the gross margin guidance and I understand some of the headwinds in terms of LIFO et cetera.
I guess can you talk a little bit maybe about Q3 versus Q4? Because it seems like with the tougher comp in Q4 the gross margin guidance makes sense the gross margin could be down then.
I'm having a real hard time getting Q3 gross margin to where we need to be to sort of hit your guidance for the full year.
So I know you talked about a little bit in terms of LIFO adjustments et cetera but what are we missing here that's going to create a pretty seriously down gross margin given the fact they're up about 140 basis points here today? Okay John thanks for the question.
So let me try to help guide you on a full year basis and for the full year basis you can ignore the LIFO.
The LIFO has an impact across the quarters over last year but not on a full year basis.
So the way we see our margins forming gross margins forming for the year would be approximately as follows: Our 2% full year guidance COGS deflation net of all the LIFO from last year so working off of last year's cost of goods space is roughly worth 80 basis points of year-over-year improvement.
Our concentrate price increase which for the most part with Mexico's price out of this for a minute for the most part is the only real drop through pricing that we're looking at.
So that's worth 40 basis points.
Now the Mexico sugar tax which is in essence a 0 margin revenues because we're just passing the tax through in terms of the rate of margin is probably worth a negative 50 basis points.
So you're roughly up 70.
And then another potential downside factor is product mix.
Packaged beverages is benefiting from the sale of a number of these allied brands.
Larry mentioned it's whether Vita Coco Bai et cetera.
We buy these products we buy finished goods so the gross margin is not as great -- it's good profit per case but here we're talking about the rate of margin.
So somewhere you're somewhere up on the higher side to 70 maybe a little less for the full year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one sort of follow-up on the concentrate price increase which is -- can you talk about the discussions you're having with your bottling partners in terms of how you're focusing on the reduction in marketing spend to improve efficiencies there in the context of a concentrate price increase? What we're doing much more on that John is showing -- just like we said in the first quarter how we're getting more exposure out there more GRPs more activity more frequency.
So we're measuring it much more on the end result than what it costs to get it.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about a couple of things.
One is the mention of higher discounts.
And if you look at the net pricing it leaves negative 2% in beverage concentrate flattish in packaged beverages -- and understanding you guys are saying what group we are getting to we're getting to overall.
I'm trying to get a sense of what your guided view is of the pricing environment out there.
And it feels like you're not following quite as much your competitive set in terms of pricing in the marketplace being up.
I mean from what we saw from Coke and Pepsi are reported higher than your numbers.
I want to get a sense of that from you first please.
Let me start with some numbers and Larry can comment on market pricing activities.
So to clear up beverage concentrates we do a funding accrual true-up every year.
It happens in the second quarter.
And just to box the numbers last year in beverage concentrates it actually provided a revenue benefit of $11 million.
And this year it was a charge reduction of $7 million.
So now you can sort of frame that into your model and of course absent that there would've been growth in the beverage concentrate segment.
So I pass that information out and Larry can talk about the marketplace pricing.
Yes.
As far as the pricing we see the pricing being very rational very disciplined out there right now.
And we are taking advantage of all that pricing.
And if there's any incremental pricing we'll be watching that on a market-by-market basis.
But you also kind of remember that the majority of our Dr Pepper is priced by the Coke and Pepsi systems which is close to 80% go see those 2 systems there.
So I would say we're very competitive in all prices that are out there.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But then I guess I'm trying to understand what you mean by take advantage of pricing much that you just said because beverage concentrate is down 2% and pricing -- I respect the kind of true-up but that's the first time in 4 or 5 years that that's down.
Usually it's up mid-single digits.
So trying to get a better handle on that.
And then when it finished it's flat.
So I'm trying to understand what you mean by take advantage of.
Are you not pricing as much as your peers? Ali let's just clarify for everybody.
Pricing in concentrate -- concentrate pricing did go up at the beginning of the year and it is being realized.
So I don't know if your question goes to that or goes to what's happening in the marketplace in terms of end consumer pricing.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So when you mean pricing do you include mix and discounting? Well we try to separate those as best we can that's why I'm saying -- I said in my remarks as I just went through with John on gross margin for the year other than the concentrate price increase we don't really see any true pure pricing falling through in the U.S.
Where we are benefiting is mix.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you believe your price mix plus discounting is in line with -- across the portfolio of your peers? Absolutely absolutely.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Maybe taking both those 2 same topics on so first margins and then pricing but from a slightly different angle.
On the margin side Marty you gave some good details on the moving parts both for margin within the quarter and also in response to John's question for the balance of the year.
But as you step back could you just maybe frame for us the total benefit from -- that margins year-to-date have received from the following 3 factors: First is commodity deflation.
I know you gave it for the quarter but for kind of year-to-date.
Second the lower advertising again year-to-date.
And then really the total productivity.
And here I'm talking about both kind of direct RCI benefits plus any other productivity you've been able to realize and pull through.
I realize there are other factors involved than margin but I'm trying to isolate on those 3 and especially the third bucket the productivity bucket as the feel for kind of what the total run rate is on gross productivity in the business right now.
Thanks Steve.
Okay let me handle those.
So let me start with commodities and LIFO.
You really need -- for your purpose in terms of trying to understand margin structure of the business which I think is where that question goes to let's not worry too much about what happened with LIFO last year because on a full year basis it simply negated the cost inflation we took the year before when the apple prices went up.
So as I've said the net effect of that in the quarter was 160 basis points.
And as I just told John if you think about that deflation for the year it's up 80 basis points.
So the way we would think about this is you look at current costs as they sit today you add 80 basis points to last year's margin that creates at least with respect to that item a sort of new baseline margin.
When it comes to -- as I've said in the quarter about 65 basis points of productivity some of that is RCI but actually a large portion of that came from some renegotiated vendor and supplier agreements.
And that's good news because of course those will in fact continue over the duration of those agreements.
Steve am I missing a third part of that? Research Division</strong> I mean I think you said A&amp;P was down $17 million or $18 million in the quarter.
What was it down for the first half? It's $25 million for the first half.
Remember that this was planned.
Don't forget we're lapping the introduction a year ago of the Core TEN products.
And I said in my prepared remarks we still spent 7.8% of sales this quarter.
A year ago with that program it was 9.1%.
So we're tracking where we want to be and I'm here to tell you and Larry would tell you based on what we see in terms of our activities and programs the A&amp;M we're going to roll out in the fourth quarter that I think is going to be -- going to hit somewhat head on what's happening in the diet category when you see our new college football championship trophy program that's tied in with Dr Pepper work.
We're feeling good about our spend and we don't think we need to spend any more.
And we continue to apply the rigor.
We're trying to get better at it in terms of marketing ROI and trying to find every dollar that's not working for us to work somewhere else.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And just on the pricing side of things as you say Larry things are rational.
We've heard that from your peers as well which is great to hear.
But the skeptic in me says it's rational in an environment where commodities really are a factor retailers are actively promoting the category and right now volumes are trending better than a lot of folks.
I think even -- I mean I think when we spoke in March you were looking at categories -- category volumes down maybe 2% or 3%.
And we're obviously a lot better than that so far this year.
So in the -- how do you feel about sort of the rationality of pricing over time if any of those factors get a bit worse? Do you have confidence that kind of rationality will hold? And if not what contingency plans does DPS have in place? I feel very confident it'll hold.
And if you kind of look at what we've experienced in the last 18 months I mean going to this year and last year when there was discounting Steve there wasn't a volume pickup.
I think everyone's learned some great lessons from that not just the bottling community our competitors and peers but also the customers.
And so we're seeing -- most of our growth we're seeing is in the sugar products.
And as everyone knows the diets are what's really hitting us now.
And to Marty's point we think we have some programs put together for later this year that are going to take that head on.
Our next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So Marty the gross margin clarity was helpful but I'm still struggling to understand why you weren't flowing through more of the earnings upside we saw in the first half of the year to full year guidance because it seems like volume is coming in a bit better than expected so far this year or maybe at worst in line with your original expectations.
The pricing environment looks rational in the U.S.
as you indicated.
Mexico top line results have come in much better than expected.
Commodities are more favorable.
RCI savings and productivity have ramped up.
So I guess I'm just struggling to figure out what the offset is to these positives that limits you to only a modest positive full year earnings revision versus the first half upside that we saw from an earnings standpoint.
Dara thanks.
I think you've summarized it well and so I'll respond with simply one word.
It's we're midyear and we want to be cautious.
You are correct.
Mexico outperforming our expectations coming into the year given the uncertainty of the tax.
U.S.
business performing better on the top line than we thought.
And we've got some cost increases I called out.
We're going to lap some things in the fourth quarter that were really onetime health and wellness and adjustment from last year we're going to have some other inflation.
But if I -- when I still put all that together I give you a one-word answer.
It's at this point to the middle of year we want to remain somewhat cautious.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the advertising spending line I guess it sounds like the ROI payback that you guys are getting and the efficiencies you're realizing there that's more of a continuous program that will last beyond the efficiencies we've seen the last few quarters here.
Is that a fair way to look at it in that you don't need to kind of re-boost spending after the declines this year just because it's more based on efficiency and productivity in terms of marketing spending? Yes Dara.
When we were -- we're 7.5%.
If you go back historically we've last throughout you would say between 7.5% and 8% over the years.
The ROI program -- the analytics behind the program we're really pleased with.
But I'm also going to tell you just like RCI we're in the early stages of really developing the rigor and discipline but we're working at it really hard and we've seen some payback the other thing I remind everybody all the time is that to some degree your ability to spend and therefore implement marketing programs has to still find its way through the funnel of your sales teams in terms of what they can how much they can execute during a given time frame not just inside the company but actually asking customers to do at the same time.
You can't bring them too many things all at once.
It's just not possible.
So there is a little bit of a governor if you will on that which people don't really ever talk about.
And when you don't follow that governor what happens is you throw a lot of money in marketing.
And then you wonder why you're not getting the payback and you realize because you asked your sales force to do 10 things instead of 5 things really well.
And we pay a lot of attention to that.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Larry I just wanted to get your assessment about the Dr Pepper brand performance.
Sequentially a little bit better down 4% in Q1 down 1% in second quarter but maybe lagging some of your other CSD brands here.
So just maybe give us a little bit more perspective on where you think the brand stands.
I think you've shown some relevant scores that still shows improvement but kind of where do you think there may be more work to do to hear in terms of really rejuvenating the brand Dr Pepper volume? Judy as you said I mean it was a great improvement from Q1 minus 4% to minus 1%.
We feel very confident with Dr Pepper.
Our issue Judy is Diet.
Diet has taken us down.
As I mentioned earlier we have -- when we're all over it we're really big and deep into it.
And we have programs for the second half that we think are really going to take this on.
We have some specific programming we're doing but also tying our diets into our football program.
And the team is very confident.
Our bottling partners are very confident that Dr Pepper the brand strengths are good the fountain foodservice numbers are good and as we get to address this diet situation we'll be able to get our Dr Pepper volumes back up for where they used to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Marty if I could just follow up on the margin just maybe ask it a little bit differently.
So in the fourth quarter of this year why do you think the commodity trends will turn inflationary? What are some of the drivers of going from deflation to inflation? And then thinking about just specifically for packaged beverages because it seems like that's where you really saw pretty significant margin expansion in the second quarter at least.
So the impact in terms of the product mix that's having on the margin and how that pulls through in the back half of the year.
Okay.
Judy let me start with the packaged beverages.
Yes they had an operating -- nice operating income improvement in the second quarter and they did receive the bulk of the commodity deflation in their cost of goods.
But they also benefited from -- at the operating income line from some of the increases in the allied brands Larry mentioned a number of them Vita Coco et cetera and they also had productivity gains.
As I said we didn't really in packaged beverages realized any true pricing drop.
So there was a mixed story a commodity deflation story and a little bit of productivity story.
Your first question in terms of the Q4 guidance and margins is simply the timing okay of our current cost trends.
We're fairly well hedged now for the year not completely but fairly well hedged and well into the 90% range of some of our key input items.
And it's just the comparison against last year.
So it's just -- that's just the timing the way it flowed through the quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you just remind me how much of your volume is now on the allied brands volume or sales whatever metric you guys look at? I don't -- maybe 3 -- maybe a tad more.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Ottenstein with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more details in terms of Snapple.
What percentage of your volume you characterize as value what percent premium and what efforts you see over the next 12 months or so to kind of reignite that brand and what the competitive environment looks like? I think if you look at the Snapple -- let's start with the value.
I mean we went out with the value brand specifically for some strategic reasons 2 years ago.
If you remember we always say that we pursue profitable volume profitable channels and packages.
We accomplished what we wanted to do with the value.
Snapple is a premium tea.
We will always consider it a premium tea.
That's where we want to put our focus.
That's where we want to get our growth.
We have a lot of great innovation coming along with Snapple.
You heard some of the things we're doing with marketing and some of our sponsorships.
We've got some LTOs that we're looking at for later in the year next year plus continued R&amp;D on looking at different ways to different sweeteners different types of teas keeping the excitement that the Snapple consumers used to have in a variety.
And so we feel very good with the plans we have in place for Snapple.
We just want to deemphasize the value piece of it.
It's really only about 10% of our total -- I don't know the exact number but that's roughly a correct number 10% of the total.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
And then some of your competitors are making a very large effort to drive mix through smaller pack sizes.
Just wondering what you think about those efforts and what your plans are? We -- especially with Dr Pepper we participate in those plans and any packages they have.
We have our Pepper and Diet Pepper in them.
So we think they are good plans where we do a wide range of different packaging.
That's where Marty talked about we really try to balance not only price but our mix.
Where can we get a better margin on a certain package.
And I think the biggest thing is giving our consumer a choice.
I mean they have a broad choice of the packages and that also helps in the calorie intake.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Marty looking at the beverage concentrate volume trends for the back half especially if you look at the fourth quarter much easier comps.
Should we assume that the flattish volume in the back half is doable? I don't want to go into specific segment expectations but only to remind you that when you go back and look at trends and look at the first half don't forget we had a big benefit in the first quarter we talked about that we thought was volume that was -- that we didn't get in December the prior quarter whether it was bottlers lowering inventories whether it was them waiting for us to put out our new higher yield concentrate.
So we had a big upside in Q1 and that would not be expected to continue.
Beyond that we don't want to comment too much on specific quarterly trends other than my prepared remarks wherein we said when we look at trends in the first half and we think about what I just said and take that out and look where the bottler case sales are our cautiousness is to view that volume softening in the second half.
Got it.
And then looking at [indiscernible] volumes pretty solid volume growth there as well.
Have you recovered -- or are you seeing positive volume trends in your sugar portfolio? Or is that all sale being driven by non-sugar portfolio? Actually it's not.
So the sugared portion is actually declining somewhat as we predicted given the higher pricing.
All the growth is in innovation although one of the really strong pockets of innovation happens to still be a sugared beverage and is subject to the tax.
It's some flavor extensions in the Peafiel line.
But our mineral water business is doing really well and obviously they had great -- they have had great growth in the first half of the year.
Got it.
And then final one.
And you talked about the allied brands or the cold pack brand.
Are they good margin business for you? Amit yes okay? And they are relatively higher dollar value cases and they are good dollar profit cases.
The way though to think about -- and they're really important to us and they're growing.
And strategically it speaks to our ability to either seek out or have others seek us out -- entrepreneurs who create these products that will probably end up creating this product somewhat better than larger companies would not that we can't.
And we have the opportunity as we've said in the past to see every one of these when they are looking for distribution and these are the partners we've signed up whether it's Vita Coco we've had for a while Larry talked about Bai many have seen that product in the market Fruit2O.
One of our strengths and advantages is offering up our DSD system to take advantage of growing categories and growing products that are created by these partners.
And it is a very good business for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I want to come back to the marketing but more like from a different angle and I guess even a bit theoretical.
So obviously down this year some $30 million but efficiency moving up but this within the context while your competitors seem to be taking up marketing levels in North America but yet it doesn't seem to be hurting your market share position at least as of yet.
So if you could discuss a little bit about monitoring a brand health and your share of voice currently.
And I guess sort of just give a level of comfort that there's not some sort of risk maybe to catch us up over time with respect to your brand as you're cutting levels now.
I think you said it right there with the -- we monitor it very closely and all of our brand scores are increasing.
They're becoming stronger.
We've also -- we've not lost any share.
And I'll go back to what I said a moment ago.
We measure what we're getting an activation and the deliverables instead of just what they cost us.
If you remember fourth and first quarter both we talked about we moved some from national that we were able to put national media and the local that we could activate and activate not only with our bottlers but with specific customers very account-specific marketing.
So if you take out the TEN from last year I mean we're not spending any less but we're also not driving a TEN.
We're also going much more to the digital.
The digital is I think one that we're all in the process of trying to learn more about but is also being very very successful for us.
So we don't really have any concerns at all on what we're spending.
I think Marty has said it probably a dozen times we have not said no to anything.
I mean if we need to spend on something we will.
But we're not seeing that need.
We're delivering our plans we're delivering what we said we would do and getting better results than we expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Two more brief ones for me.
Just on Hawaiian Punch any update there? Do you guys plan on doing anything differently as volumes continue to be under a bit of pressure and understanding it's a lower-margin brand for you guys? No.
I mean you said it's big on volume but -- on the top line but it doesn't do a lot to the bottom line so it helps a lot on our mix.
It's still a very important brand to us a very important brand to our customers.
We'll constantly look at it make sure we have it in the right package and everything like that.
But as far as putting it in specific programs -- I mean if you look at the Nielsen and if you look at the category it's not just Hawaiian Punch it's kind of a category issue.
We've got some peers and some competitors in there that are suffering the same way.
So that's something we don't want to throw money after that we don't think would turn it around.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last one for me.
Just the bottler case sale volumes in CSDs seem to be stronger than the syndicated data in the quarter.
Any color on that? Kevin that includes Peafiel.
So it includes our CSD business in Mexico.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions -- or actually just related to bottling.
And if you look at I guess where Coke and Pepsi have headed directionally in terms of business model in North America Pepsi seems content to continue to go on with an integrated model and Coke is seemingly wanting to move into a more -- into a franchise model.
So I guess from your perspective first how would -- how do you see that affecting your business? If the Coke system moves into more of a franchise business essentially you have more I guess potentially franchise customers to sell into versus a more consolidated Pepsi system.
And then second just Larry maybe your views on just which one do you think is sort of the optimal for this market.
I probably wouldn't answer that one for you.
A couple a lot of people you should ask that.
Now if you look at -- I mean I think they're both great systems.
I mean you look at us I mean you can tell we like them both.
I mean we have 40% that's company owned 40% third party 10% fountain foodservice and 10% that is warehouse direct.
So we're happy with our system.
We see no changes -- I mean with Coke franchising more the people they're franchising territories to are our current customers now.
And they do a very nice job for us.
We cover them at headquarters and at their locations.
And so we look at it and say it's a win-win for us.
We don't see any downfall.
Research Division</strong> Does it add more complexity to your business just simply because there's more people to call on or the business is -- I guess this is probably more related just to Dr Pepper but does that add any complexity? Not really because we -- even with -- at the size of Pepsi we still call on their BUs and their market units and their business units.
And so we still have the people out there.
It's -- on the Coke side I mean we do our annual sales meetings where we have the same plans we meet with the teams.
So the Coke system knows the teams the Pepsi system knows the team and our independent system knows the team and the plan for that year.
So we don't really see any more complexity.
Research Division</strong> We all tend to kind of look at it from an investment angle or kind of what would be the most efficient or yield the greatest returns.
But from your perspective if you flip it and look at it from a retailer's lens do you think they would rather have a consolidated model maybe more flexibility in terms of how the product comes into them whether it's 2-step DSD DSD warehouse like -- do you think they have a view on that? Or have you heard? I do have a view.
They love DSD.
I mean that will -- that's been proven over and over especially with the velocity and the weight of our products.
I think a few years ago you would've heard a different story from our retail partners out there.
Today I think all 3 of us do a very very good job speaking with one voice.
I think we're aligned well with our bottlers.
We can go in and quickly speak with one voice and have a program for a national retailer.
And so I applaud the work we've all done on working that together and realizing the changing landscape for the retail environment.
So I don't think our retailers would see that big of a difference.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And Marty you did a more effective job defending your gross margin guidance than Tim Howard did in the World Cup.
I hope that's a compliment.
Our final question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just going to take a bigger picture.
Have you sort of targeted what you think your SG&amp;A ratio could go down to? Because I know it's a different commodity environment but you went back all the way to like 2008 obviously your G&amp;A costs were much lower as a percentage of sales.
Advertising was higher.
You made great progress the last 3 or 4 years.
But do you think there's sort of an ongoing opportunity to kind of get back to where you were before? Bill I'll say what I always said.
There is huge opportunity.
There's a lot of waste in a lot of processes.
There's huge opportunity for improvement.
So the way we're going to get it is through RCI through kinds of events.
We don't cookie-cutter things.
We've got lots of great opportunities already.
And so I never really have boxed that I know it's been frustrating for some.
But I don't know that I actually can.
I'd probably underestimate it even if I did.
I'll tell you and then there are some structural things we're doing.
Bryan just mentioned about where the beer distributors sort of fit in the model.
We actually have done this in certain of our lower-scale markets.
So it's our way of saying we know RCI can improve a lot but sometimes in lower-scale markets maybe we need structural change.
We've actually done that in a few markets.
We haven't realized all that potential yet but some of the numbers I've seen have suggested that there's probably $3 million to $5 million of flow-through incremental profitability and a lot of that is taken out the G&amp;A.
So look we're enthusiastic about what those opportunities are.
I simply can't frame it for you.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And maybe -- do you know what caused the bloat like the last 5 or 6 years? Because it seems like it was up and then it went -- it was down and went up the costs and then they sort of come down again.
So is there sort of a way to -- maybe just to undo what happened there? I can't.
I don't have any data in front of me.
And we don't spend too much time looking backwards.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then just very quickly.
Have you sort of changed your tune on acquisitions? I know you talked about some of these great allied brands that you love the growth profile you love the revenue per case and obviously the balance sheet is fairly underlevered right now.
So have you sort of changed your view on doing deals? No.
We look at all of them Bill.
And as I've said many times we remain committed to 2 things: One being very shareholder friendly; and number two we're not going to overpay for something.
Some of these multiples that are out there are ridiculous.
And I love these young entrepreneurs but they all want to have the next Glasso [ph] deal.
And we'll be very prudent in what we do with them.
And we're very happy on being a distributor and can also pick up some equity stakes in them and we'll continue to do that going forward.
Thank you.
And I want to thank everyone for joining the call today and for your continued interest and investment in Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Heather Catelotti Vice President Investor Relations.
Heather you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the safe harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the safe harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thank you Heather and good morning everyone.
Continuing our strong performance for the first half of the year our teams posted yet another quarter of solid results in what continues to be an extremely challenged environment.
I'm proud of our people for remaining focused on building our brands executing with excellence in the marketplace and driving improvement across the organization with RCI.
And as you read in this morning's press release we've raised our full year EPS guidance range to $3.56 to $3.62 and now expect full year EPS to be up 11% to 13%.
For the quarter bottler case sales increased 1% with CSDs and non-carbs each increasing 1%.
Positive price mix also drove 1%.
Brand Dr Pepper declined 2% in the quarter primarily driven by continued declines in our diet products.
Our Core 4 brands grew 3% in the quarter led by continued strong growth in Canada Dry which grew 8%.
Sunkist increased 1% in the quarter and both 7UP and A&amp;W were flat.
Hawaiian Punch declined 2%.
Snapple increased 2% in the quarter with Snapple Premium up mid-single-digits offsetting losses on our value line which we have strategically deemphasized.
Mott's decreased 1% in the quarter on declines in sauce.
Peafiel increased 25% as we continue to see strong performance in our mineral water business and successful innovation that we launched in the third quarter of last year.
All other brands increased by 1% in the quarter led by Schweppes which experienced a high single-digit increase reflecting growth in our sparkling waters and positive ginger ale category trends.
Clamato grew 7% in the quarter and our water category increased 3% on new distribution agreements with Bai 5 and Sparkling Fruit2O and continued strong growth in Vita Coco.
On a year-to-date basis bottler case sales were flat on 2 points of positive mix in price.
Dr Pepper bottler case sales declined 2% and our Core 4 brands increased 2% year-to-date.
Hawaiian Punch declined 8% while Snapple was flat.
Mott's decreased 1% and Peafiel increased 23%.
All other brands were flat year-to-date.
On a currency-neutral basis net sales increased 3% in the quarter on favorable segment mix product and package mix and net pricing primarily driven by price increases taken to cover the sugar tax in Mexico.
Core operating income increased 6% on favorable cost of sales trends and ongoing productivity improvements that were partially offset by higher performance-based incentive compensation costs higher transportation costs and increased manufacturing costs.
Core EPS increased 11% in the quarter.
Year-to-date currency-neutral net sales increased 2% core income from operations increased 14% and core EPS has increased 23%.
As we finish out the year I think you'll agree we have strong plans in place to continue our momentum by engaging our targeted consumers and giving our retail and bottling partners activity they can get excited about.
The 2014 college football season is off to an exciting start and we've kicked off a multiyear partnership with ESPN.
Dr Pepper is the first official college football championship partner and the presenting sponsor of the new National Championship Trophy.
We'll deliver over 2 billion media impressions across both traditional and digital media platforms across all of ESPN's properties ensuring that we're always on.
And we're continuing with our Dr Pepper Tuition Giveaway giving away $100 000 in tuition to the winner of each throw at the championship games.
We recently debuted a new Diet Dr Pepper media spot celebrating the great taste of Diet Dr Pepper.
And as Halloween approaches we're partnering with Mars in driving incremental points of interruption throughout retail on our Core 4 brands.
We know music is a passion point for Hispanics so we're sponsoring the 15th Annual Latin GRAMMYs in November where we'll sponsor street parties in key Hispanic markets and offer consumers a chance to win a trip to attend the show in Las Vegas.
We'll light up the holiday mixer season with incremental points of interruption and retail activation behind 7UP Canada Dry and Schweppes and we'll have new holiday themed point-of-sale and merchandising to drive additional activity behind our Snapple brand.
Speaking of Snapple we're excited about our upcoming launch of Snapple Straight Up teas in early 2015.
As consumer preferences in the tea category continue to evolve we know that our new line of unflavored teas will be a hit with consumers.
And as we previously communicated we continue to test our naturally sweetened versions of Dr Pepper 7UP and Canada Dry which are only 60 calories per 12-ounce can and sweetened with real sugar and the latest generation of Stevia blends.
Based on our test results we'll be expanding the brands next year into additional regional markets.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through further information on our financial results and our full year guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
For the quarter reported net sales increased 3% on favorable segment mix product and package mix and net pricing driven primarily by the price increase in Mexico to cover the sugar tax.
Sales volumes were flat in the quarter.
Reported gross margins were up 50 basis points increasing from 57.9% last year to 58.4% this year.
Lower commodity costs inclusive of the year-over-year unfavorable $7 million LIFO comparison increased gross margins by 140 basis points.
RCI productivity and other cost improvements further increased gross margins by 70 basis points.
Segment mix and product and package mix collectively reduced gross margins by 90 basis points.
Furthermore certain promotional activity in the quarter reduced gross margins by another 20 basis points.
The net impact of the Mexican sugar tax reduced gross margins by 40 basis points as our pricing as always intended was only to cover the tax.
Within manufacturing costs we expensed about $5 million of individual small spare parts -- individual small dollar spare parts so as to lower nonvalue administrative costs.
This reduced gross margins by 30 basis points.
Changes in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter caused us to record a $2 million unrealized mark-to-market loss on commodity hedges with a $6 million loss recorded in SG&amp;A and a $4 million gain recorded in cost of goods sold.
This compares to a $1 million unrealized mark-to-market gain last year all recorded in SG&amp;A.
This favorable mark-to-market comparison within cost of goods sold increased reported gross margins by 20 basis points.
For the quarter SG&amp;A excluding depreciation increased by $18 million driven by $7 million of higher performance-based incentive compensation costs $7 million of planned higher transportation costs an unfavorable comparison to a $6 million credit to a legal provision in the prior year and the unrealized mark-to-market comparison I just mentioned.
Similar to last year we recorded certain unplanned health and wellness and risk insurance favorable cost true-ups in the quarter.
And as a reminder last year's SG&amp;A included $7 million of cost associated with certain restructuring actions.
Depreciation and amortization was flat at $28 million in the quarter.
Core operating income was $318 million compared to $300 million last year up 6%.
Core operating margin of 20.1% of net sales was up 70 basis points from 19.4% last year.
Below the operating line net interest expense was $27 million $2 million below last year.
Our reported effective tax rate for the quarter was 34% lower than the 35.5% previously expected as we received a onetime tax benefit.
Moving on to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities for the 9 months was $769 million up significantly from $616 million; and capital spending was $103 million compared to $111 million last year.
Reported free cash flow was $666 million compared to $505 million last year.
Total distributions to our shareholders year-to-date were $513 million with $276 million in shares repurchased and $237 million in dividends.
Before I move on to guidance let me give a quick update on how we continue to drive value with RCI through our lean tracks.
Our commitment to building an everlasting RCI culture at Dr Pepper is continuing to drive significant improvements across many areas of our business.
I know many of you still believe RCI is a cost reduction process so let me provide a few examples of using the tools and framework of RCI to create growth.
Using our RCI cap or problem-solving process on a key account customer basis including one customer's involvement in this process we've added incremental points of distribution across our single-serve juice portfolio resulting in 50 basis points of dollar share growth in the single-serve multi-pack juice segment.
Additionally in using a similar process we've closed thousands of distribution voids on our Snapple Premium business across several key markets achieving high single-digit sales growth in each of those markets measured after the changes were implemented.
And we worked with one of our major distribution partners to improve Dr Pepper display tie-in rates in a major metro area that included the adoption of standard work routines for account managers and merchandisers for handling our products.
With regard to productivity our inventory reductions have enabled us to eliminate approximately 700 000 square feet of warehouse space in 2014 all of which has been monetized.
Our reductions in driver checkout times are allowing us to run more routes per week and our many other RCI productivity improvements are enabling us to significantly offset the headwinds of general cost inflation.
Now moving on to 2014 full year guidance.
As you saw in this morning's release we have now raised our core EPS guidance to a range of $3.56 to $3.62 on a full year net sales increase of about 1%.
As a reminder our core fourth quarter EPS of $0.97 last year was quite strong as we recorded a $14 million LIFO benefit in cost of goods sold and $9 million in health and wellness cost true-ups both of which are nonrecurring in this year's fourth quarter.
These items added about $0.08 to last year's EPS.
For the year we now expect sales volumes to be closer to flat with CSDs roughly flat based on strong Core 4 and Peafiel performance.
We expect our non-carb portfolio to decline low single digits driven by Hawaiian Punch.
Year-to-date concentrate shipment volumes have trended ahead of bottler case sales sell-through.
Therefore we do expect an inventory correction in the fourth quarter in the Beverage Concentrates segment.
As a reminder Dr Pepper is the largest brand in this segment and its bottler case sales have declined 2% year-to-date.
As we communicated previously we expect packaging and ingredients deflation for the full year.
This is now expected to reduce total cost of goods inclusive of the year-over-year LIFO comparison by approximately 2.5% on a constant volume mix basis driven by better-than-expected sweetener and PET costs.
However we expect approximately 1% cost of goods inflation in the fourth quarter which included a $14 million LIFO credit.
After considering all these items 2014 gross margins should be slightly better than last year for the full year but down year-on-year in the fourth quarter.
Higher transportation costs are now expected to add about $20 million of expense in 2014 with about $5 million of the increase being recorded in the fourth quarter.
We have also identified some additional brand building opportunities to invest behind in the fourth quarter which we expect to increase marketing costs by $7 million compared to last year.
And finally within SG&amp;A we also expect an increase of approximately $2 million in American Beverage Association fees in the fourth quarter.
We continue to expect foreign exchange translation to lower net sales by approximately 50 basis points for the full year and reduce core EPS by $0.01 in the fourth quarter.
Below segment operating profit net interest expense will now be around 4.3% on our $2.5 billion of debt and our full year core tax rate is now expected to be approximately 35%.
In terms of cash flow capital spending will be approximately 3% of net sales and we are on track to repurchase approximately $375 million to $400 million of our common stock in 2014 subject to market conditions.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
Our priorities remain unchanged.
We will continue to execute our strategy in a challenging environment ensuring that we build our brands while executing with excellence in the marketplace and driving productivity throughout the business.
We remain focused on managing the business prudently for the long term and we'll continue to invest in our brands and our people while ensuring we optimize every dollar we spend.
We're committed to providing consumers with options to address their evolving needs and lifestyles.
RCI continues to drive meaningful improvements in the organization.
And importantly we remain committed to returning excess free cash flow to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Bonnie Herzog with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I guess my first question is I'm still trying to understand how you're thinking about your business from a top line perspective over the long term given the continued pressures for not only your company but certainly the industry in general.
And then how you're going to balance this pressure with the higher fixed cost ratio.
Marty I know you touched on this a little in terms of your RCI efforts which have been very strong.
But is there something else that gives you confidence to be able to balance this over the long term? And thinking about your business model the soft top line growth is that truly sustainable? The short answer Bonnie is it sustainable? Yes.
So let's go back and take it from the top and I'll remind everybody nothing's changed in our long-term view.
Remember we said with respect to CSDs we could be flattish in CSDs as a total category and then roll non-carbs in at low- to mid-single digit growth rates.
Recently the Hawaiian Punch has been the Achilles' heel to that.
But remember that when we grow Clamato when we grow Mott's the profit contribution and the mix effect of that is a really strong positive.
So that drives a lot of profitability.
But in terms of those categories those are sort of the top line dynamics before we talk about whatever pricing we overlay on there in addition to the annual concentrate price increase.
So that sort of gives us that low single-digit top line which is admittedly below the 3% to 5% we talked 2 years ago.
And that's been off the table for a long time.
RCI has a long runway.
I try to give you folks as much of the anecdotes as I can but it is creating enormous opportunity in terms of improvement in -- I'm not sure what your question -- your question goes to fixed costs.
We've actually acknowledged that some parts of our business need a structural change and we've done some of this in smaller markets where we clearly don't have the scale and volume to apply all the tools of RCI and get improvements.
We've actually gone to third-party distribution partners in a handful of markets that have -- those have worked really well for us.
So we'll do those where we can and where we think it makes sense but there's just a lot of cost opportunity.
And when we overlay a couple of percent of the top line get some incremental margin expansion through productivity efforts drive that down to an increase at the operating line greater than that top line increase a little bit of below-the-line leverage and we get a nice mid-ish single digit earnings growth number that when you tack on share repurchases and you tack on dividend you know we think gives that 10-ish low double-digit total shareholder return which is all we aspire to do.
And we think our plans are aligned with that.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma with BMO Capital Markets.
Larry I just wanted to focus on what you just said.
You finished your comment with sort of like high single low double-digit total shareholder return.
Given that earnings growth is going to be touching low double-digit for this year and very high single-digit for last year as well and RCI continues to be very strong are you prepared to be a little bit more positive about earnings growth for next year? Can you get to the high single-digit earnings growth? Or internally as the view changing that perhaps we can start to be a little bit more positive about driving earnings growth through the system as well.
This is Marty.
Let me handle that question.
Remind everybody for the last 2 years we've had a lot of earnings growth driven by cost of goods favorable trends.
And nobody would predict that to continue.
So everything I just said assumes a more level cost of goods environment.
But you can't -- these have been extraordinarily good years driven by lots of favorability.
I applaud our procurement people.
I think we've done a wonderful job against what we read about others in our space in terms of our cost trends.
But we can't -- nobody would predict that to continue.
By the way the good news for us is then I would say that that earnings improvement has been a combination of not only the cost of goods improvement but the fact that the marketplace pricing has allowed that to sustain and not get competed away.
And maybe that's because our trends are so much more favorable than others seem to say theirs are.
So you have to take that off the table and move to a more normal state.
Nothing's changed in terms of our excitement about the business at all.
We've enjoyed the last 2 years of cost of goods favorability.
Great.
And then Larry if I may just ask one more on pricing that Marty alluded to.
Clearly very clear pricing discipline from the industry.
And if you listen to the other 2 bigger players they have talked about packaging as a driver of that mix as well.
How far along are you in terms of bringing that mix component of price mix into the sales growth line? Yes we're involved in it now.
And you've got to remember with my partners out there 40% of our total is in the packages they have.
So we're very familiar with which ones work and which ones don't and what we have in ours.
You'll see us continue to innovate in package.
I believe that packaging innovation is as strong as brand innovation and LTOs on keeping the excitement and something new out there in the category.
So we're up to speed on it and we'll continue to increase it.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
So how much do you think is left in RCI? And is there a way to sort of disaggregate like what is pure cost savings versus revenue synergies? Because I think one of the more interesting things is like a lot of it has driven incremental revenue.
And then maybe if there's an opportunity to sort of cascade some of the stuff which have been mostly cost of goods sold focused to the G&amp;A line.
Because I know that you're a smaller company.
But if you benchmark your just pure corporate overhead to some of your peers it's a little bit high a couple of hundred basis points.
Okay Bill let me extend a few -- let me just dismiss the last piece.
I don't think you can compare unallocated corporate costs across companies because you've got to know what's in corporate and what's in the segment.
So that's a comparison that's even hard for us to do.
In terms of RCI look there is -- when I see unlimited opportunity of course it's not unlimited.
But do we -- is there a limitation that we think we're facing right now? The answer is no.
If I talked to you a few years ago and told you that even absent commodities the improvements driven solely by RCI were achievable I think many of you would have challenged that.
We beat the estimate we -- the first 3-year estimate we originally put out there.
The things we're doing across the organization that are actually affecting costs there is still a whole robust group of projects.
I just want to call out this morning to remind people that you can actually use a lot of these tools to help create some elements of growth and that we're as much focused on the blocking and tackling that comes from doing those kinds of programs as we are on pure productivity.
Productivity only follows and cost reduction only follows from getting rid of waste and so it never really becomes a direct focus.
I called out this morning the benefits of lower inventories shedding unnecessary warehouse space which reduces the footprint costs.
It has reduced break-shrink cost obsolescence cost.
Inventories are turning faster.
So there's lots of attendant improvements.
And most important -- most importantly my comment about how important that is for us to beat back what's otherwise going to be externally -- external pressures on inflation in costs.
And that's going to become our model.
We're going to defray those as best we can with improvements so we can see our top line benefits actually flow through to increased profitability.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's super helpful.
And then just on the refranchising it seems like it's kind of hitting an inflection at Coke.
Do you have any data on who's more productive like a pure Coke-owned bottler versus an independent affiliate bottler of Coke? So kind of how these changes are made? Will it be status quo? Or do you think it'll be a change in the business? How does the transition work et cetera? Well I don't have any of that.
And we don't track that so I wouldn't be able to answer that for you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
And then just one last quick one.
The sparkling water trends have been amazing obviously.
I know it's a relatively small category.
Do you think that's a trend? Or is it a fad? And like how could that be a considerable material component of your business in I don't know 3 to 5 years? I think it's a trend and you see us with it in our Peafiel with the Schweppes and with Canada Dry.
We're putting a lot of programs together on it for this year and next and we believe it's here to stay.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Marty I just wanted to go back to the commodity outlook.
And if we sort of think about the fourth quarter swing to inflation if I kind of just take out the LIFO impact it does though seem like you're implying a little bit of less benefit in the fourth quarter just excluding the LIFO benefit but still somewhat deflationary in that context.
So maybe just clarification on sort of the swing from third quarter and the fourth quarter.
And then as you think about 2015 how much coverage do you have in place now? And given where kind of the sweetener prices are today oil prices et cetera can you give us any color just in terms of how you're thinking about 2015 commodity outlook? Yes.
So Judy I think you have it right for the fourth quarter.
I think you -- I can't say it any differently.
So I think you've boxed it right particularly considering the LIFO benefit last year.
And so that will be what it's going to be because of course for the balance of this year we're more or less 100% locked at this point.
For 2015 we'll comment more on 2015 when we have our February call.
I could tell you that across the key hedgeable commodities I would tell you we're anywhere from 30% to 70%.
It varies across.
For some of the more important ones I'll tell you that -- and a month from now I can tell you particularly with some of these we'll even be more hedged because our calendar of activities would say we'd be higher a month or so from now.
But we're where we're comfortable being.
Obviously the recent activity in the oil market should be good for PET better than previously and we're doing some things right now in PET to deal with that.
So we'll have to see where we land.
I'll give you more -- I'll have a better view of this in February but we feel comfortable where we're hedged.
We feel like we've got good management over the commodities that at this point are not so well-hedged but that's no different than any other year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Okay.
And then just on your marketing spending.
So Marty I think you said it's going up in the fourth quarter by $7 million.
But full year I imagine that it's -- you're still looking at the percent of sales in terms of marketing to be down similar to what you've indicated before.
Is that correct? Yes.
I think if my numbers are correct when you add the additional $7 million and if you want to think about it as a percent of sales it'll be 7.6%.
Maybe we were at 7.5%.
Yes down from 8.1% last year.
But I'll say it again we've told everybody we never expected to stay at that level.
We don't think we need to be at that level.
And the $2 million we're spend -- the $7 million we're spending or the $0.02 is simply because look we've got some plans that we moved forward a little bit in the calendar for 2015 and we're going to start spending behind them.
So...
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Yes.
And then Larry just -- if I can just follow up on your Dr Pepper trend.
And clearly the diet category continues to be one where there's still some pressure there.
But what are some of the actions that you're taking on maybe beyond the natural sweetened innovation? But just really the core product of Dr Pepper as itself in the diet side of the business what are you really trying to show some improvement on that trend? We're definitely trying to reverse the trend.
And if you -- and on my prepared remarks I mentioned we came out with a new campaign for Diet Dr Pepper.
That's driving the great taste of Diet Dr Pepper and so that media will be hitting.
And also with Pepper football the college football coming on board and the coverage we have out there we feel very bullish for the fourth quarter on what we can do with Pepper and going forward into 2015.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Cowen.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I wanted to follow up on Judy's questions on Diet.
Larry can you just offer an update of your view of kind of the diet category? Have the declines stabilized? Are they reaccelerating? I mean there are some divergent trends that I'm seeing in the various Nielsen outlet data releases so I was hoping to get some all-outlet color from you on that please.
Yes.
It's -- I think it's very similar to what you're seeing there on the declines.
Like we've mentioned before we stay very concerned about it.
I mean when you have something out there that's declining at 7% that can bring the others down.
So that's why we're putting the new media campaigns together also continuing our push behind our TEN products.
Our TEN products we continue to get new distribution with them.
And I think sometimes it helps on having a product out there with 10 calories that doesn't say diet.
You said you know about our naturally sweetened but that's 60 calories.
So we'll continue to keep our media on the Diet especially Diet Dr Pepper.
We'll continue to push TEN.
And then another big piece for all of us is educating the consumer that there is nothing wrong with these diet products.
There is nothing wrong with aspartame.
It's one of the most tested food ingredients there are.
So we've all got a lot of work to do but it's also going to give us upside when we find the silver bullet.
LLC Research Division</strong> That sounds great.
And in terms of the expanded test for your natural 60-calorie offerings that you commented on in early '15 can you kind of dimensionalize kind of the expansion? Would it be notable? Will we see it? Or is it still really kind of discrete offerings really targeted trying to get more learnings out of the marketplace? Well right now we're tested in a market that we control where we have the 3 brands together in Texas Chicago and Des Moines.
And what we're going to do on this we really want to understand the consumer and the customer.
We're not going to be in no big hurry.
We want to understand where does it need to be who is the consumer where does the packaging pricing need to be.
We're going to test different formats.
And whether it starts to spread out I mean it'll be on how the results come in.
I mean of course if it's just stellar you'll see us go big time.
But right now we're just doing a wait and see.
We want all the information.
We want the data and then we'll make our decisions from that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sounds perfectly reasonable.
My last one is on Peafiel which has clearly been just a home run with your new innovations on that brand.
Can you speak to the opportunity of expanding geographic distribution for Peafiel specifically bringing it into the United States? Yes absolutely.
We're looking at -- in our Hispanic programs for the U.S.
we're bringing in the Peafiel from Mexico.
So far it's just starting right now but we're very excited about the results we're seeing to date and we'll expand that as we go across our -- we have very targeted Hispanic markets that we work in and we're starting to get some real learnings from bringing the Peafiel in from Mexico.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a few more brand-specific questions if I may.
And then to Judy's question Larry your plans to get momentum going again seem tied to media.
Is that right? And I guess specifically do you feel your share of voice is where it should be on that brand? Or is there another issue that you're contending with? Our brand health scores are fantastic.
I mean we couldn't be happier.
We're very happy.
But it's not just media Steve.
I mean the media doesn't work unless you have flawless retail execution out there.
And so we'll continue to strive for excellence in our merchandising and having the points of -- interruption incremental points of interruption.
So it's going to be a combination of basic blocking and tackling that the DSD business is all about.
Research Division</strong> So is that a -- is that a sort of an acceleration -- is that a -- that's not a distributor criticism is it? It's not -- is that -- is it different? Are you seeing different performance in Coke versus Pepsi versus your own system? Or is that just a...
Not at all.
Not at all.
Like I've said before I mean they're both fabulous partners and their results are very very similar.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Snapple can you talk just a little bit more about the strategic deemphasis of the value line? And is that more of a temporary or cyclical decision? Are you backing away from that value emphasis that was really put in place just a few years ago? Yes.
When we went out with it we told everybody it was strategic that it would be in certain markets.
And in the heartland it wouldn't be as heavy there.
It was going to be in some C&amp;G but it was never anything that we were looking at that we were going to do long term and take a focus off of premium.
Snapple is a premium product.
That's where we keep it.
That's where we put all of our focus and so it's just like with -- some of the value teas got down to where it was like the cheap bottled water.
And as we've always said from the time we went public I mean we pursue profitable brands and channels and packages.
And so it worked for us.
It got us in some markets especially in the Midwest we were not in before.
Now we have the premium in and that's where we're seeing our growth coming from the premium Snapple products.
Research Division</strong> Great.
So Straight Up is that further premium? Or is that just lateral? Straight Up will be an unflavored -- most of our -- most of the Snapple tea is flavored tea and -- flavored teas and juices.
This will be a straight-up tea.
It kind of goes back -- we had it years ago Steve when we had the super premium line but we're going to put it right in with our premium teas.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last question on free cash flow usage and the dividend specifically Marty.
I think the dividend was up only about 8% this year versus what's now going to be 12% EPS growth in the midpoint of your guidance which implies an actual drop in the payout ratio when I think you said repeatedly that your intention is to grow that metric.
So I know it's a Board decision but should we be expecting some kind of catch-up on that in '15 based on at least on what you'll be recommending to the board? You'll hear us talk about that in February.
Nothing's changed Steve.
I mean like we always said if we had a leaning or tendency between dividends and share repurchases we'd lean heavier into the dividend.
We do try to collect a lot of shareholder feedback.
You can imagine people are somewhat divided on this topic depending on who you talk to and their view of things.
So -- but yes I still think that's a true statement.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you on the non-carb portfolio and I guess building a bit on what Steve was asking.
To what extent do you think we really are at an inflection in your ability to take share at least have improving share performance in non-carbs which went from negative to positive in the quarter? And then I have a follow-up there.
I think in -- earlier in one of the questions or maybe in his remarks Marty mentioned that if you look at our non-carbs most of that -- of our decline is driven by Hawaiian Punch just one brand.
We've been very vocal with everyone and upfront that it's a lot of volume but it's not a lot of profit.
And you could tell by this quarter it's -- it was only down 2% so it's starting to flatten out a little bit.
And our other brands continue to grow and take share so we're very happy with that.
Mott's as a whole was down a little bit but that was driven by sauce.
The juice is still doing well.
So we feel very bullish that we can continue on our non-carbs.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Do you think this is an inflection in the total non-carb volume performance? It's not just a one-off quarter.
Do you think this is the beginning of an improved trend? Yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And then from a profitability standpoint when you look -- when you think about GP dollars per case and putting aside percentage margins is it correct to think that that inflection is a net positive to your overall GP per case? Okay Mark.
It's Marty.
Let me -- so when you talk non-carbs let me throw some other products in there too.
So it's probably not a -- there's a lot of margin in Clamato a lot of margin in the Mott's line and a little -- and lesser so in Hawaiian Punch.
But also as we expand in some of the newer age category the Vita Coco Bai Fruit2O the profit contribution in dollar terms is good.
But remember we don't bottle these products.
We don't manufacture these products.
We have to purchase them as finished goods.
So if you would just look at the gross profit line you would see probably a lower level of gross margin.
But we like the profit on those cases.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the -- but at the GP line the absolute dollars on a per case basis are lower.
I mean I get the incrementality.
But at the GP line the dollars per case are lower.
Let me clarify again Mark because I said this in my prepared remarks.
When I talked about the negative impact of mix at the gross -- adjusted gross profit margin the percentage margin this is what I was partially referring to.
That we're selling more of these allied brands they're purchased products and the gross profit percentage all right is lower than you could say what else sort of the corporate average.
But the absolute dollars per case because these are higher dollar cases is very good profit for us.
Very attractive.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Got it.
So in fact from a dollar perspective it's higher? Correct.
Right.
Our next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I did want to follow up a little bit on the non-carb piece which is if we look at the volume performance of your -- of Coke and Pepsi in the most recent quarter it seems as though the -- their 100% juice portfolios have gotten hit harder on some pricing.
And I guess do you guys have any brand switching information? What -- as volume comes out of those categories do you know where it's going? And is that benefiting let's say some of your 100% juice products or your juice drink portfolio or any of the rest of your non-carb businesses? So any idea where maybe that volume is sourcing from? Or are you just seeing greater share performance within those non-carb categories? It's a combination of both John.
I think we're getting a lot more on our execution out there -- better execution with the juices.
But we do know for a fact that you can go back and trend this as orange juice prices as the concentrate and the commodity would go up it seems like the first place that people go to is apple.
So there is some benefit there but we haven't seen enough of it right now to be able to dimensionalize that for you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start Larry I guess with sort of your view on the profit pool in North America CSDs.
And it's kind of an interesting year because it seems like Coke has finally gotten some religion on price.
It seems like they took some incremental pricing earlier than usual this year as well usually go around Super Bowl time.
So I'm just sort of curious if you guys are more optimistic now on the -- on your outlook for profitability and maybe even profit growth given this dynamic here and how you sort of weigh this with the implications of volumes being down.
At least broadly in the category you guys have done modestly better historically.
How do you sort of weigh this given the elasticity and given the volume declines? Right.
We're going -- you hit it right on.
The pricing is good.
It's been good.
It's been disciplined now for what 3 years 3-plus? So that's very positive.
But we're still going to put a tremendous amount of focus on the volume side of it getting the right execution getting the CSDs back to where we're not having the declines which I think we're starting to see some progress.
We're seeing our sugared products grow.
As I mentioned earlier we're going to put a tremendous amount of time on diet.
So how do we correct the diet? How do we turn around that 7% decline? That could make the CSD category look healthy again if we can figure that one out.
Research Division</strong> Larry just one more for me guys if you don't mind.
How exactly do you view -- is the hope that you execute on the diet strategy? Coke is meeting with investors recently.
They're going after the heavier consumers within that which probably drives some 85% of consumption within diets.
Can you peel back the onion a bit? And is this going to be efforts through the ABA? Is this going to be targeted marketing at your higher frequency consumers? Maybe just a little bit more detail there will be helpful.
All of the above.
It's Marty.
You'll see some increased marketing efforts directed at diet as opposed to sort of the trademark brand.
And admittedly I'm going to admit that at least in our own business we can probably find areas where we haven't executed as well as we could have on diet.
And it's understandable from a field or a market perspective where even some of our own people have pulled back on some diet display activity because the brand is down.
And of course you've got to be careful.
That becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy.
So we know -- we're not -- look we are not perfect at anything okay? And we'll -- we hope you never believe we are.
So we ourselves have looked at areas where we maybe haven't executed as well in the diet.
That has changed okay recently.
So yes more advertising directed at the proposition of the brand.
And even in our own system a little better execution.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Ottenstein with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> I was just wondering if you could go into a little bit more detail on the TEN platform.
A year ago you talked about spending $30 million in '13 talked about another significant investment this year.
Perhaps you can give us a little bit more sense of how much you're investing this year and plans for next year.
And also last year you mentioned that about 51% of the sales came from outside of the category and so you were very happy about that in terms of it being additive.
Where does that stand now please? Yes.
It's still over 40% are people we've brought back to the category.
So that encourages us very much that we're on the right track there.
As far as spend I'll let Marty kind of walk through the spend here in a moment.
But Marty and I were just looking at some of the numbers and you see how well our core brands are doing.
I mean I really feel we're getting quite a halo effect across all these brands with our TEN with our regular with our diets.
So the brands are doing very well in that category and you'll see us continue to put a strong focus on TEN.
A lot more of the TEN now is going to be not as much maybe the media piece as execution.
We're continuing to get new availability.
Accounts that last year wouldn't give us incremental space are now giving it to us.
And I'll just reemphasize again.
I've told everybody these brands are not made overnight.
Understanding the consumer and the trends and the changes take time and we will stay after it and keep that TEN product out there in front of them.
Yes.
And Robert it's Marty.
In terms of the marketing we haven't finished our -- nailed down our complete marketing budget yet.
But what's interesting and many of you probably saw this in the advertising for the TEN brand we made a change and you may have seen it when you watched the ads on TV.
And this was a marketing return on investment learning and we applied it.
So we're going to actually be getting sort of better results for less money which is at the end of those ads you see us flash -- if it's a 7UP TEN you see us flash the other TEN.
This was -- actually that was not just something we thought would be a good idea.
It actually came out of some rigor in the analytics whether you want to call it halo effect to the other TENs when we made that change which the data would say we would get the same benefit as almost running separate commercials on each allowed us to spend less but get the same effectiveness.
So that's actually a great learning from MRI [ph].
We haven't set the actual dollars yet.
As Larry said it's execution.
There'll be dollars around sampling and other activities because the data is still compelling.
We get -- if we get trial we get good repeat.
We've got data that says we're bringing consumers in.
So that's not going to stop.
But what is important is we don't necessarily have to spend an absolute significant amount of increased money in marketing to get there.
Research Division</strong> Just -- what about the marketing spending this year as opposed to last year? Well this -- yes.
It was in the $25 million to $30 million range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's comparable? Comparable yes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just as a follow-up you've talked in the past about some very interesting micro marketing programs in which you're taking a specific brand and really channeling it through social media to particular demographics.
Can you give us any update on those efforts and the kind of results that you're seeing and whether this is something that you're going to continue and expand? Yes.
It's still early but you can kind of tell by the numbers we've had some real success with 7UP especially the Hispanic millennials.
We're seeing 7UP up 1% and that's some of the things we're doing there.
We're trying to integrate the digital into all of our branding and marketing plans out there.
And as I said still early but everything we're seeing right now is telling us we're on the right track.
Research Division</strong> So should we expect additional programs next year? Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I first wanted to just get a better sense of the volume growth gap between concentrates and finished goods.
It's been there for a little while.
It's clearly pretty prevalent this time around.
I'm just trying to get a sense of whether it's kind of a nothing because it's a true-up on timing obviously in concentrates.
Or is it that concentrates obviously is much more diet-focused probably with the Diet Dr Pepper? Is it NCBs that are getting the bigger part of packaged beverages and so that's looking a lot better? Is it that your Coke and Pepsi partners aren't focused enough on the concentrates piece of the business? So like why is that gap there so prevalent this quarter? Well Ali it's Marty.
So it's been there and we have to think about okay end market sales versus what we're shipping.
If I -- for example if I just drill down to just the Dr Pepper brand okay and we talk about BCS being down a couple of points our actual shipment volume of Dr Pepper concentrate year-to-date 9 months over 9 months is only down half a point.
So we have to sit here and say okay is there buildup of concentrate inventory in the system? It could be an indication of that.
There could be other reasons why there's a difference.
But for the most part we have to be realistic and say okay if the end market pull-through is down 2% and we're not there for our planning purposes right we want to be realistic and assume that at some point those have to come in line not exactly in line.
And therefore that could predict lower shipments of concentrate in the fourth quarter plus whatever other dynamic goes on in the fourth quarter which would have happened a year ago anyway in terms of bottler behavior what they want to buy.
Do they want to buy ahead of the price increase which hasn't been announced yet or not? We haven't seen much of that in the past.
Whether they want to more diligently manage their year-end inventories down and postpone some purchasing and push it into January.
But even if the order slowdown occurs because there is some inventory correction as I called that yes I mean ultimately that would be timing in the sense that that would yield a much lower level of concentrate shipments here over in the fourth quarter but nowhere anywhere near what the BCS trends would tell us and then we'd expect to be back on those trends in the first quarter.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So I apologize.
It's probably unclear.
I'm not asking that question which I think -- I mean I understand I think.
I'm asking in the 2 different businesses that you have the beverage concentrate business and the packaged beverage business.
So you have -- this quarter it was a negative 3% volumes in beverage concentrate plus 2% volumes packaged beverages.
Okay yes.
There I would say if you're just sort of looking and trying to isolate Q3 I'll tell you these -- the beverage concentrate business is obviously heavily dominated to Dr Pepper and packaged beverages is not.
So -- and while Larry talked about Dr Pepper -- and he mentioned a few things when we look at what happened just in Q3 there are a lot of timing issues and events.
So...
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That's what I'm trying to get at right? I'm trying to understand that.
Let me give them to you okay? So for example everybody knows one of our partners ran a big promotion in the quarter last year right that helped our volume last year.
We're lapping that this year.
Larry talked about football with some major retailers.
I won't name them but they're pretty significant.
Last year we had football activity starting a little earlier in September.
For planning purposes this year those got pushed back to October.
So we've still got the same energy behind football but we were able to capture some of that in last year's quarter and we're lapping that too.
So probably those were not small occurrences.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So it's more timing than the diets part of Dr Pepper really pushing it down or NCBs getting much better? No it's more timing yes.
There are lots of program activities from a year ago that had a negative lapping effect this year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay cool.
On Hawaiian Tropics specifically -- sorry Hawaiian Punch specifically how much is the improvement lapping the shelf space losses you had last year at a major retailer? And so that's the benefit? And is this kind of a steady state we should expect kind of negative? Or is it actual kind of comp stores shelf space stable that things are getting better? Yes.
We're looking at it basically is it's going to flatten now.
So I mean you're probably not going to see the growth you've seen before.
I mean the shelf -- as far as shelf space that doesn't concern us as much as getting the activity out in the end caps and then the right display activity.
So yes we're still very confident with it.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay so planning out there.
And then the last question and it draws on a little bit Marty what you said earlier kind of tying 2 things together.
So as you kind of close your eyes and think forward in the current company structure do you have a sense of what the ultimate operating margins could be for the company? Because you've obviously done a very good job at pushing those with RCI and other things.
So what's kind of the ultimate in this current structure? And then given what you said a second ago a little while ago now about in-pockets delegating some of the bottling operations to other third parties do you ever think about doing that on a bigger scale and actually becoming a fully concentrate company and having your bottling businesses effectively be separate sort of like what you're hearing from Coke? Is that something that you think is the next stage of structure or not really? So 2 questions in there.
We're pleased with how we're set right now.
You've heard me say before.
We're 40% company-owned 40% third-party 10% food service 10% warehouse direct.
And we feel that is a very good split for us.
Ali in terms of the first part of your question margin structure of the company I don't have a number where we reach our limit.
The only thing you have to think about and everybody knows is that to the extent mix changes across the segment -- concentrates has got higher margins than packaged beverages.
And to the extent we get more growth in packaged beverages sure the overall corporate margin could come down but the dollars of profit would be greater.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached our allotted time for questions.
I'd now like to turn the floor back over to Larry Young for any additional or closing remarks.
All right.
I want to thank everybody for joining us today on the call and for your continued interest and investment in Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Heather Catelotti Vice President Investor Relations.
Heather you may begin.
Thank you Lori and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the safe harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the safe harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filing.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Heather and good morning everyone.
I'll start off this morning by saying I am proud of our strong performance in 2014.
We continue to operate in a competitive environment with continuing headwinds against CSDs particularly diets and yet our teams remained focused on our strategy and delivered solid results against our key priorities.
We continue to connect and engage with our consumers through innovative and powerful marketing programs including our Dr Pepper college football and 7UP EDM programs.
And with our strong brand equity scores across all our brands we know these programs resonate with consumers.
We delivered innovation that gives consumers options to help them live a balanced lifestyle with the national launches of Canada Dry and Schweppes sparkling waters and our introduction on a test basis of naturally sweetened CSDs.
And then our TEN platform continues to bring lapsed occasions back into CSDs.
From an execution standpoint we maintained distribution in grocery on key brands and packages across CSDs and Snapple and grew distribution across sparkling water portfolio.
Mott's increased ACV by 1 point in multi-serve juice and 7 points in single-serve juice highlighting the power of our RCI lean tracks to drive growth.
In convenience we grew distribution on Snapple 16-ounce premium glass by 1.5 points held space in CSD and grew distribution across our sparkling water brands.
We also continue to increase fountain coverage adding just under 42 000 new fountain valves providing consumers with thousands of additional sampling opportunities.
RCI is becoming the way we do business and our lean tracks in 2014 helped us to drive growth and productivity across the business.
To name a few examples we worked collectively with our bottling partners to improve display tie-in rates on Dr Pepper increase distribution on single-serve juice and streamlined our driver check-in and checkout processes.
And finally we returned $717 million to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases and as you saw last week we raised our dividend by just over 17% as a further commitment to returning cash to our shareholders over time.
Moving on to results.
For the quarter bottler case sales increased 2% on just about 1.5 points of positive mix and price.
CSDs grew 2% and non-carbs increased 1%.
Brand Dr Pepper was flat in the quarter performing better than the overall CSD category and our Core 4 brands grew 3% in the quarter driven primarily by continued strong growth in Canada Dry.
Schweppes increased 10% on growth of sparkling waters and ginger ale and Peafiel grew 17% on successful innovation launched in 2013.
Squirt was flat while Crush declined 6% and all other brands declined 2% in the quarter.
In non-carbs Snapple increased 4% with mid-single-digit growth in premium partially offset by continued declines in value as we strategically deemphasize this line.
Clamato grew 9% and our water category increased 5% on new distribution of Bai 5 and Sparkling Fruit2O and continued strong growth in Fiji and VitaCoco.
Hawaiian Punch declined 4% and Mott's decreased 2% on declines in sauce.
All other brands grew 1% in the quarter.
On a full year basis bottler case sales increased 1% on 2 percentage points of positive mix and price.
CSDs grew 1% while non-carbs decreased 1%.
Dr Pepper declined 2% driven primarily by continued declines in Diet.
Our Core 4 brands increased 2% and Schweppes grew 10% for the year.
Peafiel increased 21% and both Crush and Squirt declined 1%.
All other brands declined 4% for the year.
In non-carbs Hawaiian Punch declined 7% and Mott's decreased 1%.
Snapple increased 1% for the year while Clamato grew 7% and our water category grew 3%.
All other brands declined 1% for the year.
On a currency-neutral basis net sales increased 4% in the quarter on sales volume growth of 2% and favorable product package and segment mix.
Given some of the benefits we recorded in the fourth quarter last year as expected core operating income decreased 10% and core EPS declined 9% for the quarter.
For the year currency-neutral net sales increased 3%.
Core income from operations increased 7% and core EPS increased 14%.
Looking forward into 2015 our strategy and priorities remain the same.
We will continue to build our brands execute with excellence in the marketplace and further drive RCI as a core behavior.
We'll continue to engage with consumers through relevant programming and provide them with innovative products and package formats to meet their evolving lifestyle needs.
This year we're expanding the test of naturally sweetened CSDs to 3 key regional markets and launching Snapple Straight Up Tea a new line of unsweetened and slightly sweetened teas in 18.5-ounce PET bottles.
We're also expanding distribution on our glass bottle CSDs and launching Hawaiian Punch in a pouch format giving mom an on-the-go option for the fruit drink her kids love.
We'll continue to leverage marketing return on investment to ensure we're maximizing our investment returns and continue our R&amp;D efforts on sweetener development.
Execution is critical in this business so we will continue to work closely with our bottling partners to ensure priority brand execution focus on flawless execution in our DSD network and expand into new and emerging channels like online and at home.
Our allied brand partnerships allow us to participate in adjacent and growing categories and we continue to expect strong growth from these brands.
And we're excited to bring the #1 mineral water brand in Mexico to the U.S.
this year with the launch of Peafiel.
Importantly RCI will continue to underpin our business operations and we'll continue to develop lean capabilities across the organization.
As I look across our plans for the year I think you'll agree we have a strong program calendar that will drive excitement with our consumers and with our retail and bottling customers.
January marked the end of our first college football season with our new ESPN partnership.
With the first ever college football playoffs presentation of the Dr Pepper National Championship Trophy and America's introduction to Larry Culpepper we're definitely calling it a successful season.
Stay tuned for our new national media campaign celebrating the great taste of Diet Dr Pepper and we'll team up with one-of-a-kind Avengers in the spring to drive shopper excitement and incremental points of interruption in the stores.
We're giving 7UP a facelift with new graphics that speak directly to the Hispanic millennial consumer and we're gearing up for our second year with EDM once again partnering with the world's top DJ Tiesto and others across 7 EDM festivals to drive engagement with our target customers and drive local retail activation.
We also know that soccer and music are major passion points with Hispanics so we're teaming up with star athletes like Tim Howard and Hector Herrera to celebrate the summer of soccer and sponsoring the 16th Annual Latin GRAMMYs offering consumers a chance to win a trip to the show and an exclusive 7UP concert.
We know America loves New York and New York loves Snapple.
Our Born in New York campaign highlights real people and celebrities from New York who will share their love and passion for the brand with the rest of America.
And we're pairing Mott's with the hilarious minions of the Despicable Me series to connect with shopper mom and her kids and continue our Box Tops for Education program this fall.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through further information on our financial results and our full year 2015 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
For the quarter reported net sales increased 3% volume increased 2% favorable product and package mix increased just about 1.5% and segment mix contributed about 0.5%.
This net sales growth was partially offset by 1 percentage point of unfavorable foreign currency translation.
Core EPS were $0.88 in this quarter inclusive of a $0.02 foreign currency headwind and $0.03 in incremental marketing investments above what we communicated on our last call.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
As expected reported gross margins decreased 90 basis points in the quarter from 60.2% last year to 59.3% this year due to a number of factors.
Product package and segment mix collectively reduced gross margins by 60 basis points.
Net pricing excluding the Mexican sugar tax reduced gross margins by 30 basis points.
This includes a higher-than-normal fourth quarter trade accrual in our Beverage Concentrates segment.
The net impact of the Mexican sugar tax reduced gross margins by 35 basis points as we priced the tax increase through with no margin.
Foreign currency reduced gross margins in the quarter by 30 basis points.
RCI productivity and other cost improvements were able to offset some of these decreases thereby increasing gross margins by 75 basis points.
Commodity cost improvements allowed us to lap the $14 million LIFO credit last year so the net effect had no impact on year-over-year gross margin comparisons.
Changes in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter caused us to record a $23 million unrealized mark-to-market loss on commodity hedges with a $4 million loss recorded in cost of goods and a $19 million loss recorded in SG&amp;A.
This compares to a $3 million unrealized mark-to-market loss last year with a $4 million loss recorded in cost of goods sold partially offset by a $1 million gain recorded in SG&amp;A.
These unrealized mark-to-market effects also had no impact on year-over-year gross margin comparisons.
SG&amp;A increased by $80 million in the quarter including expected health and welfare costs and performance-based incentive compensation which collectively increased SG&amp;A by $18 million in the quarter.
The unrealized mark-to-market comparison I just mentioned increased SG&amp;A by $20 million year-over-year and marketing investments increased by $16 million.
This marketing increase is higher than the $7 million increase previously communicated last quarter as we invested more heavily in media and college football retail activation.
This year's fourth quarter also includes a $14 million charge due to the settlement of certain pension obligations.
This charge is excluded from core earnings.
Remember that in last year's fourth quarter we recorded a $56 million noncash charge related to our withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan which was also excluded from core earnings.
Depreciation and amortization was flat at $29 million.
Core operating income was $291 million compared to $323 million last year a decline of 10%.
Core operating margin was 19.3% of net sales in the quarter compared to 22.1% in the prior year.
Again these comparisons are in line with our planned expectations given the approximate $22 million of benefits in last year's fourth quarter due to both LIFO and health and welfare insurance reserve reductions that were not expected to reoccur.
For the full year core operating income of $1.2 billion was up 7% from last year and represented 19.7% of sales up 100 basis points compared to 18.7% last year.
Net interest expense was flat at $28 million in the quarter.
Our reported effective tax rate for the quarter was 34.8%.
Moving on to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities for the year was just over $1 billion up $156 million.
Capital spending was $170 million representing just under 3% of net sales compared to $179 million last year.
Reported free cash flow was $852 million compared to $687 million last year an increase of 24%.
Free cash flow conversion was strong at 121% of reported net income.
Total distributions to our shareholders for the year were $717 million with $400 million in share repurchases and $317 million in dividends.
And as Larry mentioned we remain very committed to returning cash to our shareholders.
Last week we announced a 17.1% increase to our quarterly dividend.
Before I move into 2015 guidance let me give an update on how RCI continues to penetrate the organization and drives growth and productivity throughout the business and share some of our successes since our journey began.
To date we've held over 500 Kaizen improvement projects across the company involving over 4 500 of our people and we've realized over $200 million of annualized cash productivity.
Looking back on just 2014 our lean tracks have allowed us to exit 14 warehouses and make even further reductions in DSD inventory levels while improving out-of-stocks.
Our lean tracks have also allowed us to reduce driver check-in and checkout times anywhere from 30% to almost 50% allowing us to improve route productivity across the country.
One of these events was held in Des Moines in November and included a few investors so they could experience our RCI process directly.
As Larry mentioned earlier we partnered with some of our bottling customers in Kaizen events that have allowed us to increase our Dr Pepper display tie-in rates by double digits in certain markets and use the tools of RCI to close thousands of voids across our Snapple portfolio and gain significant points of distribution across our single-serve juice portfolio.
These are important examples of using the tools and processes of RCI to improve execution and drive growth.
Now moving on to 2015 full year guidance.
The CSD category continues to face tough headwinds particularly diets and we expect this trend to continue.
We will also have some challenges as a result of the strengthening U.S.
dollar on our businesses in Mexico and Canada.
Against this backdrop we believe our 2015 net sales will be up approximately 1% net of a foreign currency headwind of 1%.
With 80% of our volume in CSDs total company sales volume is expected to be flat with CSDs down slightly offset by growth in our non-carb portfolio and allied brands.
On a total company basis we expect combined price and mix to be up about 2%.
Our January 1 concentrate price increase will drive about 40 basis points of this increase and the remainder will come as a result of growth in our higher-priced non-carb and allied brands.
As I've said currency is expected to be about a 1% headwind on net sales and about a 2% headwind on operating income and EPS.
To give you some further insight the Mexican peso averaged MXN 13.31 to the U.S.
dollar in our 2014 results and we are now planning on MXN 14.60 for 2015 an increase of almost 10%.
The Canadian dollar is also trending almost 10% higher than what we experienced in 2014 with our current expectation of CAD 1.20 to the U.S.
dollar.
Moving on to cost of goods.
Given our hedged positions and current market prices for our unhedged positions we expect packaging and ingredients deflation primarily from lower PET and apple juice concentrate.
This is expected to reduce total cost of goods by approximately 1% on a constant volume mix basis.
LIFO will not have a material impact in 2015.
For modeling purposes remember that growth from our non-carb portfolio and allied brands which are higher dollar revenue cases will also increase the dollar value of cost of goods.
Taken together these factors should result in a slight increase in gross margins for the year.
Moving to SG&amp;A.
While fuel prices are down capacity shortages in the transportation industry are expected to result in about $15 million of higher costs in 2015.
And though fuel prices have declined fairly significantly in recent months we were already largely hedged on fuel for 2015.
We're expecting an increase of approximately $20 million in health and welfare and other insurance costs compared to the more favorable trends we experienced in 2014.
Furthermore general inflation in our field labor costs will also increase total operating expenses by approximately $20 million.
That said RCI productivity benefits will help offset a portion of these increases.
We continue to enhance our marketing return on investment capabilities to ensure we're maximizing our return.
We expect marketing spend to be approximately 7.6% of net sales in 2015 a very healthy rate for our business.
Now moving below segment operating profit.
Our net interest expense will be around 4.6% on our $2.5 billion of debt which implies an increase of about $6 million.
Approximately half of this increase is due to transitioning our fleet to more capital leases and we will see an offsetting improvement in operating income.
Our full year core tax rate is expected to be approximately 35.5% and we expect capital spending to be approximately 3% of net sales.
We expect to repurchase approximately $500 million to $550 million of our common stock in 2015 subject to market conditions.
Considering all these items we expect full year core earnings per share to be in the $3.80 to $3.88 range inclusive of the 2% or $0.08 per share foreign currency headwind I already mentioned.
Before I turn the call back over to Larry let me highlight a couple of phasing items that will help you update your models.
First the packaging and ingredients deflation and the transportation and general inflation increases I just mentioned will be spread fairly evenly across the year.
Second the health and welfare and other insurance increases will be significantly weighted toward the back half particularly the third quarter.
And finally I will also remind everyone that we experienced very strong concentrate shipments in the first quarter of last year as we launched a new high-yield Dr Pepper concentrate.
This drove approximately 5 million cases of increased shipments in the first quarter of last year which we will not experience again this year.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for your questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
Our priorities remain the same.
We will continue to execute our strategy in a competitive environment ensuring that we drive awareness and relevance of our brands continue to innovate to meet consumers' evolving needs and execute flawlessly at the point of sale.
RCI is helping to drive growth and productivity across the business and importantly we remain committed to returning excess free cash flow to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So want to ask about pricing.
It does seem -- and I understand the accruals on this quarter but it does seem that you're lagging still your peers in North America on CSDs.
Now I want to get a better understanding of why.
Or are there things we're missing in the mechanics of how you're reporting it? And how long does that last do you think versus your competitors? Well I think if you look at especially the fourth quarter we had quite a bit more activity than what we had in the previous year and then our package mix also is making a difference in it.
But I think if you look at the pricing everyone has pretty well got the same pricing out there.
It's just that some have more smaller packages.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But your pricing is lower than your peers is what I'm trying to get at.
Your -- I guess your change in pricing is lower than your peers.
While everybody seems to be trying to be rational and bring the prices up more it doesn't seem like you're seeing as much from you guys.
And are you saying that that's...
You're getting the math in mix.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So you think it's mostly mix difference? If you look at [indiscernible] -- believe me we take price anywhere we can.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's a mostly mix -- package mix difference you'd say? Correct correct.
And Ali it's Marty.
I'll add in the fourth quarter there's no question -- Larry said we had more activity.
College football drove a lot of activity around brand Dr Pepper big Walmart program related to college football.
And we think that was good activity for the program was a great program for us.
So as Larry said it's not absolute pricing.
It's mix and we know others are getting -- are reporting some higher price mix from some of their smaller packages which we're not completely in.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay great.
And then on operating margins you broke it down somewhat in terms of what the increase was.
But I think there's still -- sorry on SG&amp;A part of operating margins I apologize.
On the SG&amp;A part you broke it down in terms of what some of the gap was versus last year.
Can you talk about how we should think about that rolling forward? So Ali let's go back.
SG&amp;A in the fourth quarter up $80 million and I ran through a litany of things including the mark-to-market adjustment of $20 million et cetera.
Well here's -- I think the -- one of -- when you -- let's forget mark to market because we take that out of core.
That will be whatever it's going to be.
Probably the largest single operating factors to think about this year in SG&amp;A -- let's talk about all of SG&amp;A for this year.
Incentive compensation performance-based incentive compensation for our hundreds of people managers et cetera that are part of the plan drove about $12 million in the fourth quarter and it was $25 million in the year.
So that's simply spend related to better performance.
That will go up or down with performance and that was a fairly big factor.
We've always said logistics transportation which for next year I'd say is going to be up $15 million.
That's -- I mean it's unfortunate we can't take advantage of the current fuel price drop but as I've said we were largely hedged on fuel going into next year.
Truthfully if we believe that we've seen -- we're going to see a new normal in the cost of oil and fuel prices for the time being then we'll lap that later in 2015.
So as with hedging timing is everything.
I'd comment that some other cost increases inflationary cost increases we'll beat those back.
We'll beat those back with some RCI.
And as I said A&amp;M marketing 7.6% of net sales.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- okay that's helpful.
Last question is Peafiel bringing that to the U.S.
interesting idea.
Can you talk a little bit about the prospects you see there and perhaps the competition as well? Yes.
Like we've told you before with our Hispanic strategy we have found as we go out in the market a lot of us think we have packages and brands they want but the Hispanic consumer is very savvy and they want to see something from Mexico.
Marty and I were in a trade a while back where we had some of our products in our regular U.S.
packaging and the owner of the chain of Hispanic supermarkets told us they were fakes and that the consumer knew it.
Where we've brought the Peafiel from Mexico in the success has been tremendous and so we're looking forward to bringing this in especially into our Hispanic markets where we have our focus points.
And it's still early but I think you're going to see some great results from these.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 questions.
One Marty as we look out into 2015 on commodity costs just could you give us some sense for how much of -- I know you've spoken about fuel but just how much of it is fixed versus what may float around with movements especially in oil prices and I guess how it affects packaging? Yes.
So Bryan if I look across the basket of key inputs whether you're talking about aluminum or PET or apples and concentrate and corn et cetera I would say we're at least 50% or more hedged.
Fuel is up in the 70s.
So my comment this morning we'll be down 1% given these hedge positions plus where the markets currently are.
So we have -- we still have some flexibility in there and this is probably consistent with where we've been for the most part at the beginning of each year.
This is not really very different.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just one question and this may be difficult to answer but just related to the college football programming and the success.
It sounds like it was more successful than maybe you were even anticipating at the beginning.
The fact that the national championship game is so far away from kind of the end of the season I guess gives you a really long period of time to merchandise against that.
So were you able to actually stay very active merchandising against that through that whole window? Or did it sort of really just build up closer to the playoff and to the game itself? Bryan I think you're correct.
I think it surprised all of us how successful it was.
We knew it would be successful.
I cannot begin to explain how our consumer -- our customer and our bottlers get behind this.
We were actually late in our opinion getting in to get the activity because of the amount of time it took in all the negotiations getting the -- it's the first year of the championship.
So this year we're very bullish because we have the schedule already laid out where we're starting much earlier and have the displays locked up with the retailers asking us to bring it back into them earlier.
So we're pretty excited about it.
Research Division</strong> Is that part of the reason why you spent more money than you thought in the fourth quarter? Was it just related to "Hey this is going to be bigger better?" [indiscernible] like I said it was a little late getting started so we need to spend a little more against it to get the pickup and the bang out of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Levy of CLSA.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
The price mix if you just did the U.S.
only if you took out Mexico could you give that to us? Just give us North America.
It was probably somewhere between 0.5% and 1%.
Research Division</strong> And the outlook for Mexico it's been such a spectacular market for you over the past year.
Does the difficult comparisons mean you're looking for a pullback? Or do you think you can keep growing off that new base? Well we're going to grow -- I mean they've done a great job really growing right through the headwind of the sugar tax even though -- with that approximate 10% increase in Mexico to cover that.
Our -- a lot of our core sugared beverages did take a hit and that wasn't unexpected.
Roughly the degree of the increase.
But the innovation and the sales efforts down there and the expanded -- we have white space down there and that -- we showed that this year with the largest C-store chain down in Mexico.
So they've got great innovation.
They're expanding distribution.
They have runway.
They have runway.
Research Division</strong>.
Because in Mexico I think both Coke and Pepsi didn't have their best quarters down there.
People are saying that consumer is very soft.
But do you think you can continue to buck the trends because of your operating strategies down there and your -- the white space? The simple answer is yes and we've proved it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's fantastic.
And then just getting to TEN.
You talked about bringing lapsed users back into the category.
It would really be helpful if you could elaborate on what you've learned about TEN and if maybe you really think this could be a big growth year for TEN.
I think if you look at it Caroline whenever I talk about bringing lapsed users back not only bringing the lapsed CSDs and -- let's say from our research we're showing a lot them went to fruit juices to sports drinks.
Now with the TEN they're coming back to CSDs and so we still remain very very committed to the TEN platform.
Our guys are doing some great execution out there.
It helps us also on diets because it doesn't mention diet on there and so it doesn't seem to be affected as much.
But as you've heard me say before I mean it takes a long time to build a brand.
We told everybody in the beginning when we were first coming out with Dr Pepper TEN 3 years ago that we were going to stay committed to it and continue to build it.
And all the results we're looking at tell us we're still on the right track.
Research Division</strong> And Marty one for you.
RCI continues to astound.
Initially you thought it was more of a cash flow working capital kind of thing but it certainly seems to be helping margins.
Are there some things you can elaborate on as where you see the big opportunities in '15 '16? Caroline there are opportunities everywhere.
Everywhere we look there's opportunity.
And as we say around here if we didn't have opportunity we'd be in trouble and I don't say that facetiously.
I mean I rattled off a few examples this year.
We've got a whole slate of lean tracks for 2015.
We probably captured $20 million to $25 million of pure P&amp;L cost improvement last year which is probably what we've done in the couple of years before that.
It's just permeating the way we think the way we do business.
That's really important.
That's -- when we can see the entire organization be that as its culture we'll know we're successful.
But there is still opportunity -- I can tell you right now we're still doing lean tracks on inventories and warehousing and all the logistics sides of whether our Warehouse Direct business or DSD business lots of other activities related to top line opportunities which all go to execution.
And the most astounding thing is our bottling partners who when they go through the process with us they're pretty enamored by the process.
It's helped themselves.
Research Division</strong> And in many cases that's Coke and Pepsi right? We could include them yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a quick follow-up on Ali's question.
Given Coke's strong push to realign package architecture with their strong focus on premium and smaller packs which certainly seems to be driving a lot of the price mix for Coke I'd be curious if you have plans then to shift your mix to the smaller premium packs and focus more on package innovation.
Sure.
I mean we constantly look at package innovation Bonnie.
We also -- we do a lot of it by geographic territories.
And with Coke and Pepsi where we have Dr Pepper with them we participate in those packages so we know how they perform and where we should have them.
You'll see some of the smaller packages with our innovation coming out not only package innovation but some of our new brand innovation and items that we have lined up for the year.
So we look at it very closely.
And we -- as I mentioned earlier we take advantage of any price we can but we also want to make sure that we have the package lineup that the consumer wants out there.
And we feel pretty happy with what we're seeing right now with our lineup.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on -- I was hoping you could just drill down a little bit more on the strong packaged beverage top line growth that you saw in the quarter.
Maybe specifically drill down on the allied brands and they're certainly contributing to your business.
And any more color on some of those brands would be helpful.
Yes.
We'll -- yes I'll take the first piece and let Marty kind of walk you through a drill down on it.
But what's really encouraging us Bonnie is that we're seeing some great growth in our regular sugared brands.
They're coming back.
And as I've mentioned in the earlier call I think we're seeing the diets aren't fixed but the diets are not declining as rapidly as they were.
And then the other big piece that I look at is what we've been able to do in convenience and gas up and down the street getting that product out there that one bottle at a time.
And it's just been very impressive for us on the growth side.
Bonnie in terms -- if we look at packaged beverages their key growth drivers in terms of categories are the allied brands and more specifically the water categories.
So when we define the water category we're of course not talking really about Deja Blue or bulk packaged water.
We're really talking about brands like VitaCoco brands like Bai brands like Fiji okay? Those brands are up strong double digits.
One of those brands -- I mean some of those are small the growth rates are really high.
But even the more -- some of the more established names I just mentioned are up very very strong.
So -- and that's an indication of our ability to leverage our distribution system for these newer-age on-trend products that we're open to creating opportunities with those brand owner partners.
That's been a big benefit.
As Larry said the Achilles' heel in CSDs continues to be diet.
The -- we're all seeing better performance in our regulars.
The challenge will be for everybody to improve diets whether in our case it's by TEN whether as Larry mentioned our conclusion that probably a little more marketing investment directed at diet more directly instead of the overall brand trademark.
We'll do some of that in 2015.
But we're really pleased with what we've been able to do in packaged beverages in terms of managing the mix and finding the growth opportunities.
And then by the way in all this as I mentioned in my remarks is the blocking-and-tackling of closing Snapple voids and doing all the executional things that we really try to focus on to sell every bottle we can and it's so far worked pretty well for packaged beverages.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then even just based on your comments Marty I fair -- I assume it's fair to assume that you guys will continue to pursue future partners in terms of allied brands and other businesses that you called out.
Bonnie what I'd tell you is you have to manage that.
There's an element of managing products and SKUs which we're very mindful of.
So we want to do this carefully which means make our choices carefully.
But I would bet that every new product that is invented that needs distribution in beverages comes through the front door of this company at some point for us to look at.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I just wanted to get a little bit more context for 2015 guidance Marty.
So if I look at just qualitatively the environment it seems like there are more tailwinds than headwinds.
You've got a U.S.
macro that's getting better.
Commodities are pretty benign.
CSD pricing is pretty rational.
It doesn't seem like your guidance even if you exclude the FX impact fully reflects that.
So can you maybe talk about some of the potential headwinds? Or what keeps you in terms of having more robust profit growth outlook in 2015 is my first question.
Okay.
Well Judy let me run down for everybody.
Let's just make sure we're all grounded on what's sort of underlying the guidance we gave this morning.
As we said CSDs we still expect them to be down somewhat with our non-carb portfolio up say low- to mid-single digits.
We do have a 2% concentrate price increase roughly.
That's the industry price increase built in across the whole company.
It's 40 basis points of the roughly 200 basis points of price mix.
Look whether it's a tailwind or not we do not and we've never really in the last years planned any raw pricing in packaged beverages.
We'll take as Larry said what the market will allow us to.
We're all competitive.
And one of the reasons we don't actually build pricing in is just from a management point of view we don't want the higher revenue dollars to take our focus off rigorously managing costs.
And it's competitive and we need to respond to the market.
FX will be down 1% on the top line down 2% in terms of income and EPS and a little commodity deflation.
Look there will be some inflation though right? We're going to have some operating increases.
We're going to have to lap some insurance costs which are not small $20 million and $15 million in transportation.
And so when you look -- when you package it all up you sort of get the range we've given you and we'll see how the year pans out.
I mean we've laid out every key modeling assumption for you and we'll see how the year pans out.
Research Division</strong> Just clarification Marty.
The incentive comp in 2014 how do we -- do we just keep that in the base for 2015? Well look probably not completely right? Because this is sort of above what we would call target performance.
We'd love to do it each and every year for all of you and for all of our people.
But yes I mean it wouldn't necessary run at that level.
That's why it's up $25 million full year against last year.
And last year wasn't a bad year for us but this was a better year the way we compensate people.
So that number would come down a little.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quick one Larry.
Recently you signed the partnership with Keurig Green Mountain ahead of the cold launch.
So I wanted to just get your view of the opportunity there.
And as I think about the arrangement it sounds like you're doing it more on the fountain side and the bottlers don't have participation at this point.
Would that change over time? And what are some of the milestones that you're going to be watching to really understand the opportunity in that segment? Yes.
It's still very early Judy but we don't know how big it's going to be.
But we know that it could be a very very important channel so we want to make sure we're there.
You're correct on the agreement how we have it set up as a fountain agreement but we never have surprises for our partners or anything.
And we're all looking at it and seeing how it works and if it does get big how do we all share in it.
Now none of that's been done yet but I think we've always had a great reputation with our partners that we do what's fair.
And I think all of us are interested in seeing what it will do.
I think it could be a big piece into another one that we're all watching close on e-commerce.
But it -- those 2 could tie very closely together.
So we all want to understand that and know where it's going to go but most importantly make sure that our brands are there.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess as you look back on '14 could you try to build a bridge from your original outlook to your final results? Because clearly the year played out materially better than you'd originally anticipated.
I think it's basically 7% better at the mid-point if I'm not mistaken.
And I'm wondering if you could just outline the key drivers with the benefit of hindsight there.
Because I think you saw better -- in retrospect better volumes and pricing in the U.S.
better performance in Mexico you had incremental commodity tailwinds I believe maybe a favorable beverage concentrate versus packaged beverage mix shift there.
You may have renegotiated some supplier agreements mid-year that may have -- that were -- et cetera.
So I'm just not surely -- entirely sure how to quantify those things and -- versus your original expectations.
And kind of like Judy I'm just trying to discern what portion of 2014's strength might be expected to continue versus being more an element of just timing as I digest your '15 guidance.
Steve but for the numbers I couldn't have answered your question any better than you just did serious.
So look I'm not sure -- I'm not going to share all of those.
Commodities was -- you talked about top line better than expected.
Commodity improvement over and above what we thought going into the year a fairly large factor there.
But otherwise you hit on Mexico.
Remember we went into the year sort of saying we didn't know about the sugar tax.
And we just have to take a wait-and-see and I think everybody took that position.
And we did a lot better clearly so kudos to that team.
But no I think you hit on all that.
I think that's all -- what happened in '14 is all interesting.
But in terms of our guidance for -- I think the way I would think about it is you'll all come to your own point of view on the top line.
We've told you what we're thinking and how we're thinking.
And when it comes to cost of goods yes we'll have a little deflation against 2014.
So that's sort of forget where we were how we got to 2014 versus 2013.
It looks like we'll have a little bit of upside there.
We'll have some inflation in insurance costs and transportation as I've said.
So I -- and long term by the way in terms of just costs if oil stays where it is for a while we'll get some benefit.
And by the way if oil stays where it is and gas prices stay where they are we haven't talked about the consumer and lots of CPG companies are trying to figure out what's going to happen with consumer spending.
We know it can't be bad.
We've seen some positive data points.
It may be positive.
And so that should lay out 2015.
But you have all the elements of the bridge in 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess you mentioned I think that you weren't expecting -- you didn't embed rates into your assumptions on the finished product side for '15.
That was probably true in '14 too.
Was that a -- did you get rate in '14? Was -- how big a factor was that? It wasn't a huge factor for us.
It wasn't a huge factor for us right? Most of ours came in the form of mix.
And as Larry commented particularly in the fourth quarter we had the sort of back half fourth quarter added activity around Dr Pepper which performed very well.
That came with some promotional activity with it of course.
And as I mentioned too Steve I mean with what we're seeing in convenient gas is kind of a channel shift which will shift mix also.
So the -- I think the guidance we gave was -- as we looked at it was the -- with all the statistics and everything we could look at we were very confident with it.
I think everybody's seen the first Nielsen.
We're happy with January.
I think everybody looked at Nielsen and you can see that we did pretty well in January.
And if things improve we'll certainly keep everybody updated.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
The first one is your leverage ratio since 2008 has been cut in half.
So I think in my math it's like 1.5 turns of net debt to EBITDA.
So are you just going to keep letting that kind of come down as cash flow continues to accelerate? Or are there maybe plans to kind of more optimize the capital structure? And then I have a follow-up please.
Well Bill we're down somewhat.
I mean obviously we took a lot of debt out at post spin when we were much more highly levered.
And now we're roughly 2x EBITDA give or take and we have no plans to materially change that.
That's -- our guidance for next year on share repurchase of $500 million to $550 million along with our higher dividend commitment all comes out of operating cash flow next year and we have no near-term plans to change the capital structure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it seems that you have more and more flexibility in the P&amp;L.
And I know when times are a little harder you backed off from things like the coastal strategy.
Now it seems like Coke is committed to increasing its share of voice.
And so I guess the question is will you kind of spend not dollar for dollar but percent to percent to kind of maintain share of voice? And would you ever maybe revisit some of the stuff that you were doing on the growth front now that there's actually like sort of more money flashing around it seems? We look at that every day Bill and just kind of referring to the coastal.
I mean we still keep a very strong focus on the coastal strategy but we're doing it much more local than nationally and broad how we were advertising before.
We pick a market and we identify what we need to do there and we stay on it.
I think as far as sales and marketing there's probably no one in this organization that would tell you that if they needed the money and there was a return that they wouldn't get it.
I mean we don't go in and say no because of the P&amp;L.
I mean we look at what we've got to do how we grow it and what's the return.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And I know you've guided to the advertising ratio for the year but will that change as the competitive dynamics change? Because it does feel like folks are a little bit more emboldened now elasticity has kind of broken down in a good way in terms of pricing and volume response so...
Unless something would change from what we're looking at with our programs and our percent of sales we have that's what we can execute flawlessly right now.
And that's the main thing we look at can it be executed? And we're very happy where we're at.
Your final question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to brand Dr Pepper.
So it was down 2% this year and you're cycling down 2% last year.
And I wanted to get a sense if you're comfortable with the level of brand investment there.
I know we're flat in the quarter so that was better sequentially which is a good thing.
So if you kind of touch on that do you feel like you have the right marketing strategy in place? Are the additional dollars going to Diet Dr Pepper in addition to the TEN platform? And then Larry too I guess just to sort of reconcile your comments and I appreciate you're sort of the eternal optimist which is great.
The TEN platform at least Dr Pepper is down mid-teens on a volume basis.
So is it a sense where the bottlers are kind of giving up on this? The low cal or mid-cal historically has not had a lot of success where the consumer either goes for full cal or to no cal.
So just -- and I know there's a lot there but just really around Dr Pepper the brand itself and what you're doing here to sort of target these -- some of these lapsed consumers.
Well like you said I mean you can see where fourth quarter came back stronger definitely showed that our college football programming worked.
We have a lot of great programming set up for the year as I mentioned starting with Diet Dr Pepper.
Most of our declines are in the diet.
You can look at the latest Nielsen I mean the Dr Pepper is coming back.
Diet is still an issue.
We're going to solve for that.
And as far as TEN we've had a lot of meetings with our bottlers.
They're seeing the importance of TEN.
We have a lot of programs for 2015 on the Dr Pepper TEN.
And then we look at the TEN in the core as some of the benefits to us growing our Core 4 on the packaged beverage side so we'll stay very committed to it.
It's not out there like you said growing through the roof.
But it's doing what we expect it to do and it's helping us to bring people back into the category even if it wasn't in the TEN after they come back in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I just have one follow-up if you don't mind? Marty on the payout ratio now up to 50%.
Is that the right place to be do you think for the company with respect to the recent dividend increase? Kevin the short answer is yes.
And as we talk to shareholders I don't get a lot of feedback against that mix.
I -- we did say that we would -- and we've always said and I believe our Board continues to believe is that if we had to lean one way or the other it'd be more dividend and less repurchase.
The 17% drew the payout ratio up modestly a small amount 17% increase in dividend 14% increase in core EPS.
So -- and I would say that would be our tendency or our leaning over time.
Thank you.
Well I want to thank everybody for joining the call today and for your continued interest and investment in Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
We respectfully request a limit of one question per person.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Heather Catelotti Vice President Investor Relations.
Heather you may begin.
Thank you Maria and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filing.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investor's page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Heather and good morning to everyone.
We're off to a strong start in 2015 amidst continued challenges in the CSD category particularly on Diets.
We delivered against our key priorities of building our brands with relevant marketing programs and consumer driven innovation and executing with excellence at the point of sale.
We grew both dollar and volume share in CSD's in Nielsen-measured markets and out-performed the category.
We expanded distribution and availability across our tea and juice portfolios and RCI continues to gain traction across the organization and drive top-line and bottom-line growth.
For the quarter bottler case sales increased 3% with almost 1.5 points of positive mix and price.
Bottler case sales of CSD's increased 3% and non-carbs increased 5% in the quarter.
We did have some volume upside as the Easter holiday shifted into the first quarter this year versus second quarter a year ago.
Brand Dr Pepper declined 1% in the quarter on continued declines in Diet.
Our Core 4 brands grew 4% in the quarter as a 13% increase in Canada Dry was partially offset by low single-digit declines in Sunkist Soda and 7UP.
Schweppes increased 8% on growth in sparkling waters and ginger ale and Squirt increased 15%.
Peafiel grew 20% on distribution gains while Crush declined 3%.
All other CSD brands were flat in the quarter.
In non-carbs Snapple increased 5% with high single-digit growth in premium partially offset by continued declines in value as we have strategically de-emphasized this line.
Hawaiian Punch increased 7% with strong results on our recently-launched pouch and some promotional activity on our base business.
Mott's declined 1% in the quarter while Clamato grew 20%.
Our water category increased 9% on strong growth in Fiji Bai 5 and Vita Coco.
All other non-carb brands were flat in the quarter.
On a currency-neutral basis net sales increased 5% in the quarter on a 2% increase in shipment volumes and 3 percentage points of favorable segment mix and the favorable product mix I just mentioned.
Segment operating profit grew 10% in the quarter on a currency-neutral basis.
Core operating income increased $23 million or 9% on net sales growth ongoing productivity improvements and lower first quarter marketing investments given this year's phasing.
Core DPS also increased 9% in the quarter.
As I shared on our last earnings call we kicked off 2015 with an exciting marketing calendar.
Our successful partnership with ESPN wrapped up in January with the first ever college football playoffs.
We brought Peafiel Mexico's number one mineral water to the U.S.
and both 7UP and Snapple got new face lifts that speak directly to our target consumers.
Our naturally sweetened CSD's have rolled out in three key markets with only 60 calories per 12-ounce can and sweetened with stevia and sugar.
We're continuing to provide consumers with choices for their evolving needs.
We'll continue to test how these products perform across the markets.
We also launched Snapple Straight Up Tea an unflavored tea in a new 18.5-ounce PET packaging and also launched Hawaiian Punch pouches.
We'll continue the momentum through the Spring as Dr Pepper teams up with one of a kind Super Heroes The Avengers to drive retail activation and incremental points of interruption.
And we're sponsoring Spike's new Lip Sync Battle one of the highest rated new shows on cable.
We'll continue our new media campaign around Diet Dr Pepper featuring rock star Lil' Sweet and highlighting the sweet taste of Diet Dr Pepper.
And I hope you had a chance to see Texas-own centenarian Elizabeth Sullivan who turned 104 in March and believes the only doctor she needs is Dr Pepper.
Her story garnered over 177 million impressions in just a few days alone.
7UP will step up its connection with EDM this summer partnering with world renowned DJ's Tisto and Martin Garrix to bring a unique music collaboration and limited edition 7UP cans to consumers.
The music collaboration will air as part of our national TV campaign and the artist designed cans are part of a sweepstakes where consumers can win a VIP weekend in Las Vegas to meet both the DJ's.
And knowing that soccer is a passion point for Hispanics 7UP will be on air during the Gold Cup offering consumers a once in a lifetime game experience with star athletes Tim Howard and Hector Herrera.
Every day people and celebrities from New York will share why they love Snapple with the rest of America who are born in New York #lovesnapple.
And to celebrate our American heritage this summer we'll offer a seasonal tea called Lady LiberTea a refreshing combination of black tea raspberry white peach and blueberry flavors.
Mott's is partnering the upcoming Minions movie to connect with shopper mom and her kids and will once again partner with Box Tops for Education as kids head back to school in the fall.
As you can see we've got strong program plans in place to engage with our target consumers and shopper mom.
And that our retail and bottling partners can get excited about and activate behind.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through our financial results and our 2015 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
For the quarter reported net sales increased 4%.
Sales volumes increased 2%.
Having sold proportionately more finished goods cases than concentrate cases which we define as segment mix favorably impacted year-over-year net sales by 1.5% while product mix increased net sales over 1%.
And as we expected this net sales growth was partially offset by 1 percentage point of unfavorable foreign currency.
Reported gross margins declined 190 basis points in the quarter decreasing from 60.4% last year to 58.5% this year.
Product mix driven primarily by continued growth in our allied water brands and the segment mix I just mentioned collectively reduced gross margins by 120 basis points.
Productivity benefits including those from rapid continuous improvement increased gross margins by 50 basis points in the quarter.
And positive net pricing increased gross margins by another 10 basis points.
Changes in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter resulted in a $1 million unrealized mark-to-market loss on commodity hedges with a $2 million loss in cost of goods sold and a $1 million gain in SG&amp;A.
This compares to a $12 million unrealized mark-to-market gain a year ago all recorded in cost of goods sold.
The net effect of these mark-to-market comparisons decreased reported gross margins by approximately 100 basis points.
And finally foreign currency reduced gross margins in the quarter by 30 basis points.
Moving down the P&amp;L.
SG&amp;A for the quarter excluding depreciation decreased by $2 million on $6 million of favorable foreign currency translation a $4 million planned reduction in marketing investments due to year-over-year phasing and the unrealized mark-to-market gain I just mentioned.
All other SG&amp;A increased by just under 2%.
Depreciation and amortization expense declined $2 million in the quarter.
Reported operating income was $270 million up 4% compared to $260 million last year.
Core operating income of $271 million representing 18.7% of net sales was up 100 basis points from 17.7% last year.
Below the operating line net interest expense increased by $2 million in the quarter principally driven by our decision to transition our fleet from primarily operating leases to capital leases.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 35.7% compared to 34.3% last year.
Last year's lower rate included a $2 million deferred tax benefit as a result of a New York state tax law change.
Moving on to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities was $101 million down $28 million compared to last year driven primarily by timing of customer incentive payments.
Capital spending was $20 million compared to $37 million last year.
Total distributions to our shareholders were $214 million with $135 million in shares repurchased and $79 million in dividends paid.
.
Before I update you on 2015 guidance let me provide you with a quick update on RCI.
Building on the success of our 2014 lean tracks we've implemented five new tracks this year led by a new set of senior and mid-level leaders as a way of further developing lean capabilities across the organization.
The tracks will target waste elimination in areas such as nonworking marketing spend.
Ingredients and the customer deductions collection process as well as help drive growth across our Canada Dry brand and through our tell sell channel.
These tracks are already achieving solid results and let me provide a few examples.
We've improved yield on fruit juices and sauces in one of our manufacturing facilities by over $1 million.
We've eliminated rework and rush hours in one area of our marketing creative process resulting in over a $1 million reduction in agency spending.
In Houston we've closed 10% of Canada Dry two-liter voids following one Kaizen event.
And in the Plains region as a result of our tell sell track we've increased distribution points on several allied brands by double digits.
These are just a few examples that should again help to re-enforce the breadth and scope of rapid continuous improvement at DPS and while individually they may seem small in magnitude we are experiencing wins like these across the organization which collectively have and will drive a meaningful impact.
Now moving on to 2015 full year guidance.
As you saw in this morning's press release we continue to believe our 2015 net sales will be up approximately 1% net of a foreign currency headwind of now just about 1.5%.
This foreign currency headwind has ticked up a bit from our prior guidance of about 1%.
While our first quarter volume performance was very good our full year expectations are still affected by existing and expected overall category trends.
And while we are cautiously optimistic about the CSD category Diets specifically still remain under pressure.
Therefore with 80% of our volume in CSDs this causes us to believe that total company sales volume for the full year will be slightly up with CSD declines offset by growth in our non-carb portfolio and allied brands.
On a total company basis we continue to expect combined price and mix to be up about 2%.
Our January 1 concentrate price increase will drive about 40 basis points of this increase and the remainder will come from expected growth in our higher priced non-carb and allied brands.
Foreign currency is now expected to be just about a point and a half headwind on net sales and about a 3% headwind on operating income and EPS which we previously guided to as a 2% headwind.
To give you some further insight.
And as I mentioned on last quarter's call we went into the year planning the Mexican peso at Mex$14.60 to dollar and we are now planning the peso at Mex$15 for the balance of the year.
We also went into the year planning the Canadian dollar at $1.2 Canadian to the U.S.
dollar and we're now planning on $1.25 Canadian for the balance of the year.
Moving on to cost of goods sold we continue to expect packaging and ingredients deflation primarily from lower PET and Apple juice concentrate.
This is expected to reduce total cost of goods sold by approximately 1% on a constant volume mix basis.
For modeling purposes remember that growth from our non-carb portfolio and allied brands which are higher dollar revenue cases will also increase the dollar value of cost of goods.
Taken together these factors should result in a slight increase in gross margins for the year.
Moving to SG&amp;A.
As I said last quarter capacity shortages in the transportation industry are expected to result in about $15 million of higher cost in 2015 even in light of lower fuel costs.
We continue to expect an increase of approximately $20 million in health and welfare and other insurance costs compared to the more favorable trends we experienced in 2014.
We also continue to expect general inflation in our field labor costs which will also increase total operating expenses by approximately $20 million.
That said RCI productivity benefits will help to offset a portion of these increases.
We continue to expect marketing spending to be approximately 7.6% of net sales in 2015 as we continue to hone our return on investment capabilities.
Now moving below segment operating profit.
Our net interest expense will be around 4.5% on our current debt structure of about $2.5 billion.
Our full-year core tax rate is expected to be approximately 35.5% and we continue to expect capital spending to be approximately 3% of net sales.
We expect to repurchase approximately $500 to $550 million of our common stock in 2015 subject to market conditions.
Considering all of these items we continue to expect full year core earnings per share to be in the $3.80 to $3.88 range inclusive of the 3% or $0.12 per share foreign currency headwind I mentioned.
Before I turn the call back over to Larry let me highlight a couple of phasing items that will help you update your models.
First as Larry already mentioned the Easter holiday shifted into the first quarter this year versus second quarter last year.
We estimate this drove approximately 1 point of volume in the first quarter.
Second the packaging and ingredients deflation will be more pronounced in the back half of the year.
Third the health and welfare and other insurance increases will be significantly weighted towards the back half although second quarter will experience some increase.
Fourth marketing expenses are expected to increase by over $6 million in the second quarter based on program timing.
With that all said let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Marty.
Before we open the line for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
Our priorities for the year remain the same and we will continue to drive awareness and relevance of our brands innovate to meet consumers changing needs and execute with excellence in the marketplace.
Rapid continuous improvement continues to drive growth and productivity across the business and we've got a long runway ahead of us.
And importantly we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator? We're ready for our first question.
Thank you.
Our first question is coming from Mark Swartzberg of Stifel Financial.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Mark.
Good morning Mark.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I just had two questions Marty on RCI.
And one is some clarification the Canada Dry comments you made seems to pertain not only to the opportunity for improved profitability there but the opportunity for improved share there.
So could you speak to that? And then also on RCI DSD seems to be an opportunity for some savings over the longer term.
So when you look at your DSD network today can you speak to the opportunity there? Mark good morning.
Well first of all we've always said that rapid continuous improvement extends to all aspects of the business and that includes sales and opportunities to find growth.
And you know in past years we've done lots of activities in Mexico for example that has had some beneficial impact on their top-line growth over the years.
Canada Dry closing void that's a project akin to what we did last year with closing voids with Snapple in a number of markets.
And in those markets where we did that last year across the U.S.
after we implemented the changes which had a lot to do with just discipline around you know SKU management on the shelf and understanding what was really moving and what wasn't so a lot of blocking and tackling we were growing double digits in every one of those markets.
Canada Dry is going to be the same.
Which is our way of saying you know there's opportunities everywhere and that includes opportunities to grow at the top line sort of market-by-market I think more than anything our approach is we don't fly at 50 000 feet we can't see the ground from 50 000 feet but when we get down there market-by-market store-by-store we find these opportunities.
And we have a process a disciplined process an analytic process through the tools of RCI to get after it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Great.
Let me...
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Helpful.
Let me  on the second part look everybody knows that when you think about cost of course most of the company's cost is within the DSD system so of course there's opportunity.
And I think you should take away from what we've been doing that we you know we're sort of working at it everywhere but in a controlled manner.
So there's lots of opportunity.
I can't quantify not because I don't want to because I'm not sure I actually know how much opportunity there is and so we just let it come to our results.
I think important for all of you out there to determine whether we're being successful or not with RCI.
So watch our cost and margin performance over time and make your own judgments.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yep.
Great.
Okay.
Thanks Marty.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Bill.
Good morning Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey a couple of questions.
The first is I think this is your record margin in the segment basis in the concentrate business.
So was that due to the Easter shift and more volume or is like something fundamentally changed with the way that business is run that maybe sort of carries those elevated margins forward? And then I have a follow-up.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean as we said we like the rest of the industry took our pricing increase in concentrate on January 1 like everybody did.
There was nothing unusual about that.
They had a little bit lower marketing in the quarter so some of the lower marketing we referred to hit that segment that's going to be timing.
And we had some good fountain performance both in terms of volume and some pricing in fountain.
So between some nice top-line results in terms of pricing and revenue recognition and some good cost performance margins were pretty good.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
And then how do you guys view M&amp;A now? I know you took a small stake in Bai 5 which you typically do with some of the allied brands.
But it sounds like litigation is getting resolved with one of the big tea companies.
So I'd just love to hear your perspective on maybe if anything has changed on the M&amp;A front because you guys have kind of stepped aside for the last three years or four years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think anything has really changed.
It has not been within our focus to do any large M&amp;A transformative M&amp;A.
What you saw us do and buy is an extension of what we would do in other allied brand partnerships and it was really to solidity our partnership.
We obviously think they have some good things going on in their brands and we like their innovation pipeline.
And we're happy to be their largest distributor and really partner and be able to collaborate on things.
And so we made a small investment taking some equity as we would like to have in all of these partnerships.
Inc.</span></strong> Gotcha.
Thanks very much.
Appreciate the time.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma of BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Marty just a follow-up to Bill's question.
The concentrate pricing it looks like way ahead of where we see measured channel pricing is.
Should we expect it to draw down as we move through the quarters? No.
The concentrate pricing will stick all year that's why we said you know 40 basis points of our overall 200 basis points of price mix should hold which it has done last year and has done historically.
So no real change in trend there over the year.
Got it.
And then overall pricing at the shelf continues to be really rational for the CSC business and the other two large companies talked about maintaining that.
Are you seeing anything in the marketplace that makes you think that's going to change over time? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Not at all.
As you said it's very rational very disciplined.
And the way we look at it we've told you last call that we don't really bake a lot of pricing into our DSD business but we take pricing where we can opportunistically.
And one last thing smaller packages certainly one of the reasons or driver of mix favorable mix here.
How are you positioned in that segment? Do you need to spend some more capital to build capabilities there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
We have the capability and we play in a lot of those packages with our partners especially with Dr Pepper so we know which packages perform the best.
But we have a broad line-up of different size packs and the smaller pack does help in some format and some channels.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Faucher of JPMorgan.
Thank you.
Two good separate questions here.
First off you guys talked about some of the phasing of marketing spending.
Is that a sales curve issue? And if so you know how did the Easter shift impact that? So if you could just give us maybe a little bit more detail on some of the phasing of marketing spending over the course of the year.
And then did want to ask a little bit about sort of the convenience and gas channel in terms of trends there and also package mix within there.
We've generally seen stronger scanner data.
Are you seeing a combination of both take home and single serve improving in that channel? Or kind of what's happening there? Thanks.
Yeah.
I'll handle the marketing question and Larry and I can decide who wants to talk about C&amp;G; we can both talk about it.
To remind everybody we do not account for marketing on a sales curve basis okay.
So it's programmatically accounted for as incurred which means when things happen when ads run costs get expensed.
So it's really programmatic.
So it's really about timing of programs which is influenced then therefore timing I  therefore is influenced by when we're going to activate things right.
So we make sure that we've got activation distribution when it comes to advertising before we run it.
So that's why we're always in this sort of situation of having to explain whether marketing is seemingly a lot higher or lower in any comparable period because it's not really done on a sales curve basis.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah and on the C&amp;G we're seeing  we're very optimistic what we're seeing in the C&amp;G channel.
I think when you look at it John I mean gas prices are basically 40% lower than they were a year ago.
That's you know kind of equates to about a thousand dollars a household.
And the way we like to look at it that's 620 ounces so we want to get all those we can.
But if you look at the measured channels if you look at our totals our total business in C&amp;G is actually better than what we're showing in measured channel because of the amount we have out there.
So we think it's going to continue to grow and be an upside for us.
Got it.
And if you look at it on a brand-by-brand basis is there any sort of indication in terms of the brand SKU where you've seen the improvement in terms of does it tend to be lower income consumers who have a little extra cash or is it more general across the business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think it's general across the business.
It may lean just a little more to the middle and middle lower.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thanks John.
Our next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Bonnie.
I have a question on your Dr Pepper brand.
It continues to remain pretty weak in terms of volume and share and there you did mention several initiatives but realistically when do you anticipate these trends to reverse? And then should we view the strength of some of your other brands like Snapple Peafiel and of course your allied brands as a greater priority for you based on your increased promotional activity and then package innovation behind some of them? I guess I'm trying to get a sense of your priorities as it relates to your allocation of resources and investments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Dr Pepper will always be a priority for me.
I mean it's in the name and we're pleased with the improvement we've seen in Dr Pepper.
I mean if you take the Diet out our brand's okay.
Diet is our challenge right now but our Diet was actually down less than the category Diet.
So we've got a solve for that and you've seen the programs.
I mentioned in my prepared remarks that we're doing a lot of things with a Lil' Sweet and the sweet taste of Dr Pepper and we're doing a lot of things more in the field on execution and getting the product out there.
So we're very positive on it we think we're going to be in great shape there.
A lot of it was just some of the first quarter timing on that being down one but all the down one was Diet.
And as far as the Core 4 we're thrilled with how our Core 4 has done.
Again a challenge on the Diets there but we're getting great execution we're getting more availability and it's doing very well in all formats of the business.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then Larry could you just quickly update us on the tests you've been running on naturally sweetened CSDs.
Maybe share some of the key findings with us.
And then what your long-term plans are for naturally sweetened CSDs? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely we've just rolled it out.
So it's still very early days for us to look at it out there.
We're getting it in some of the regional grocery chains.
You can find it in some of the markets like in HEB Jewel Hy-Vee.
They all have a little different time when they're going to be cutting but right now it's still pretty early.
We have four months of sampling set up as I've mentioned earlier we're going to do a lot of this together with not only our consumer but our customer to make sure we're doing it the right way in the right place.
And as we get those results in we'll be sure and make sure we share it with everyone but right now it's very very early days.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy of Jefferies.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Kevin.
Good morning Kevin.
Hey Marty.
So first on the EPS guidance you decided to maintain it so FX a bit worse commodity is probably better maybe pricing elasticity perhaps not as dire because now you're looking for volumes to be up slightly.
I think it was flat previously and maybe a little bit better in fountain.
Can you help us sort of frame some of the moving parts and sort of ascertain if there's any sort of conservatism in the guides at this point? No Kevin.
So I think  so we did a little better than expected in the first quarter as we said there's a point of volume and probably a penny of EPS due to the holiday shift.
Maybe there was a penny and a half of marketing in the first quarter it's $4 million obviously that's all phasing we're still going to stick  we're going to stick to our original marketing spend plan for the year which is about 7.6% of net sales.
And as I said on the call part of this is look we can't ignore category trends long-term and expect our brands to be somewhat influenced by those trends.
And so there's some of that in our forward thinking.
And we have to look at Mexico and Peafiel which has just been exploding down there and trying not to get ahead of ourselves in terms of expectations for that brand particularly in Mexico.
So the  yeah a little uptick in FX as I said in my prepared remarks.
COGS is the same.
We went into the year with about a 1% favorability and that's not a new factor for us.
So the factors I mentioned I think are the primary factors for us.
You know being comfortable very comfortable within the range that we've given you.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then a quick one if I may for Larry.
Just an update on Diets a credit to you and your team.
You guys are clicking  hitting on all cylinders I should say pretty much across the portfolio and geographies with the exception of Diets which of course is not unique to you guys.
Any signs of improvement or encouragement that you're seeing there that would suggest you're going to see a turn in trends? That's it for me.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
Not really Kevin.
It kind of goes back and forth.
Like I said our Diets for Dr Pepper were down five it's a little better than what it was.
But we're seeing some of our Core 4 greater than what they were.
So it kind of moves back and forth.
We think we have the right plans in place in marketing.
But the biggest piece we are going to go after is making sure that we have the execution out there the availability.
We want with the marketing for those Diets to be top of mind and with our execution make sure they're close at hand.
Great.
Congrats on the quarters guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
Hey guys.
Just a few things.
One is get a little bit more detail on the working capital I'm sure the use of cash this quarter a little bit outsized.
Marty mentioned customer incentive payments love to know what that is where that flows through and how we should expect that going forward? Well it's a  so the timing of customer payments and the size of the customer payments that's the settling up of trade payments that we owe customers based on 2014 activity.
I didn't say in my remarks I happened to look again this morning just simply the payments of our incentive compensation in February this year based on 2014 results was probably a $10 million increase cash outflow against versus year ago I should say.
So nothing unusual there whatsoever.
Okay.
Okay.
And then it might be linked it might not be so I don't mean to make the link but when you look at Packaged Beverages obviously the really good growth in volumes there 4%.
And then you also say part of that is driven by promotional activity as well.
So how linked is that do you think going forward? Can you give some more detail about that driver for the Packaged Beverage business or whether you think that's sustainable without even promoting as heavily? So Ali let me  so within Packaged Beverages of course you have the combination of our traditional DSD business and our Warehouse Direct business and warehouse direct brands and while we talked about Hawaiian Punch being up we did that with some promotional activity.
The other thing I should mention as Larry mentioned we did in our innovation we think we've got a great new package there the pouch the single serve pouch package.
Moms really like that.
We lost money on that in the quarter and I want to be clear with everybody that we made a choice.
We don't have the manufacturing capability to make that package we can put it in.
We've chosen to build the market position first and make sure that we've not only got distribution but sustained distribution and velocity and then we will spend our shareholder's capital to take the cost down.
And that hurt them a little bit in the quarter.
But that was a conscious decision we made to build the brand before making too much investment in that package I should say.
So actually Warehouse Direct had a tough mix quarter because like  unlike other quarters when I've talked about HP being down and it being good for the bottom line they actually had a little bit of a reverse and so that was actually a little bit  notwithstanding their great results it was actually a little bit of a drag for them.
Okay.
That totally makes sense given the context from previous calls as well.
And last thing more broadly clearly the pricing here is looking pretty rational.
You guys have both commented on it being rational and the volume elasticity I think to a lot of people's surprise isn't as bad right the pricing elasticity.
So what are your observations if you have any about what is going on from an elasticity perspective and is it sustainable going forward? I mean I think everyone is saying the pricing is going to be sustainably rational but do you think this elasticity level which is really almost meaningless is going to be sustainable as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the big thing we're all seeing is that this pricing has been rational and stable for now three years going on three years.
People are becoming more accustomed to the pricing.
I don't think it's as much of a shock than it was when everybody had to start moving with the commodities.
So you know is it sustainable? That's something we're all going to have to wait and see.
I think that we've mentioned several times we're cautiously optimistic and the big thing for us is that we've just got to continue to execute in the marketplace and make sure we have the availability.
Okay.
Thanks very much for the insight.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Judy.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
So Larry maybe just a follow-up to Ali's questions about sort of the price mix outlook in the context of what you're seeing from an industry perspective I guess we hear you just in terms of the price mix  the pricing environment in CSD has been rational your portfolio I guess is obviously less skewed to the colas where the promotional activity has come down and pricing has improved.
So just wondering how that interaction kind of plays out when you see better pricing in colas how does that impact your broader CSDs pricing decisions? And then when you think about your 2% price mix guidance how much are you sort of embedding the potential risk of some of that volume elasticity potentially getting worse.
You're hearing a little bit more from the retailers trying to increase promotions to drive traffic.
Just wondering how much of an upside could there be as it relates to your price mix guidance.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think what we have to look there Judy especially if you take Dr Pepper almost 80% of it is displayed and sold with the colas.
So the price is going to be the same there on display and on promotion.
On flavors we price our flavored CSDs with the market and we've seen some activity in flavored CSDs and we make sure that we stay competitive and have our pricing there with it.
So we don't have that huge cola base that you know even though it's declined it's still 40-plus percent.
And so I think our pricing is good.
We're happy where it's at.
We will stay competitive in flavors and most of our Dr Pepper goes through the cola system.
Okay.
And so if you can sort of reconcile that with price mix outlook for this year at 2% really driven mostly by the concentrate pricing as well as mix so really limited kind of rate or promotional discounts on the broader Packaged Beverage business.
Can you just help us reconcile those two comments? Judy it's Marty.
I think Larry touched on this earlier.
So the concentrate price increase is worth 40 bps.
That's pretty  we feel pretty solid about that.
Everything else is for the most part mix which is no different than we went into the year planning.
As Larry said earlier we will take price where we see the opportunities in the marketplace and to remain competitive but we don't bank on it in our financial forecast.
And the intersection of that pricing assumption and volume as I said earlier we've sort of taken a view of volumes as sort of category trend being an important factor in thinking about where these volumes might go.
So we like that intersection.
Got it.
Okay.
And then my last question is just on Peafiel.
Obviously you're lapping some of the big growth on that brand but the growth continues to be pretty impressive.
So is there any way to kind of help us out in terms of how much runway is left in terms of distribution gains? What are you sort of expecting that brand to do for the next you know couple of years? Just remind us how big that business is within your LatAm portfolio as well.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> So Judy it's obviously a very large brand for our portfolio down there.
Two big wins for the brand both last year innovation in the brand and then our securing distribution in the largest convenience store chain in Mexico.
I think you all know who that is.
And of course so really I think probably this is the last quarter of the strong double-digit gains in the brand because we're going to be lapping a lot of that.
Got it.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Don't forget Peafiel where remember we think about Mexico we think about the sugar tax we remind ourselves that we have a mineral water business down there in this brand and so that positions our portfolio maybe differently than others and probably in a better place.
Yep.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steve Powers of UBS.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
All right.
Hey so another few questions if I could on beverage concentrate pricing just the underneath.
You know look as was mentioned it was very solid at 4% which I think is about Marty two points ahead of the actual rate increase you took January 1.
So just the first question just to clarify is when you say that that pricing should stick over the year I'm assuming you're talking about the 2% rate and not the 4% all-in number we saw in Q1 right? Absolutely.
The other part  the other part of those four points is timing on discounts and the way we accrue and fund trade to our bottlers.
Okay.
Great.
And then I guess stepping back given that could you just I mean maybe talk more about the general pricing strategy in that segment just in terms of how it flows through quarter-to-quarter? Because as I look over the last call it four years we've seen you take an average of about 2.5 points of price in beverage concentrates average annual price increase which is strong in itself but the Q1 pricing trends was almost a full point stronger than that heading into this quarter.
So I was surprised to see another 4% quarter especially given that Dr Pepper seemed relatively weak which I think would drive negative mix.
So I know there are counter discounting dynamics at play early in the year but I think those would normalize over time.
Just can you help me get underneath the drivers of Q1 and how do you expect that to trend not only over the balance of 2015 but then as we think longer term about the cadence as well.
Thanks Steve in the first quarter you've got the underlying price increase of 2%; you've got the timing of discounts which added some to get you to the 4% plus; and our fountain business had some reasonably good pricing as well okay? We don't talk a lot about the fountain business; the volume was up a little bit the pricing was good.
So here's what I would tell you I would tell you to take the timing impact out of Q1 think about an underlying 2% underlying concentrate price increase and from your own point of view on how  what will happen with fountain over the balance of the year.
We've done okay in fountain we've had low single digit growth over many periods in the past.
Like I said we've got some pricing.
Pricing in that business is subject to contracts and the way we contract with fountain customers around pricing and/or price protection and how pricing works so it's a customer-by-customer negotiation.
But you are right that the larger increase you saw in Q1 there's a timing component to that.
Okay.
Any  I don't know  would you be willing to offer up any just sort of rule of thumb in terms of the price premium per case on fountain versus a general case of concentrate? No.
Okay.
Try I thought I'd try.
Thank you.
You're welcome Steve.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Ottenstein of Evercore ISI.
Hey thank you very much.
A couple of questions one could you give us an update on the TEN platform where that stands what kind of  what you're seeing in the market and whether that's picking up momentum again? And then second on the freight issue if I remember this is kind of the second year in a row that it's been a problem and I'm wondering to what extent you can address it by reengineering some of the system one way or the other so it stops being a drag.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I'll answer the TEN and I'll let Marty handle the transportation.
We're still very supportive of our TEN platform in the trade and our execution.
As I mentioned earlier we've got our natural products out there so we'll be watching what they do as they rollout and what type of an impact they'll have on TEN which one the consumer really wants where they want to play and then we'll make our decisions on that going forward.
So we're probably looking at more of a better feel of that in the third trimester this year.
And Rob really your question on the physical footprint we did a lot of work on this a number of years ago closed some plants after the spin-off from Cadbury set up our supply chain our network of plants and warehouses and including our warehouse  direct warehouses.
At the time where we thought it was optimized.
The issue right now in transportation is everything that's happening in the regulatory front as it relates to rules surrounding drivers the hours they can drive the actual  some of the physical aspects of that can either qualify them or disqualify them to drive an over-the-road tractor.
This is  some say some of this may abate with the lower activity in the oil patch maybe freeing up some drivers to service the industry but that's been the factor.
I don't know right now the solution for us would be necessarily to do any material changes or spend any material amounts of capital right now to somehow change the system.
You said there's basically not that much you can do on that front? Is what I'm hearing? Look the higher cost is influencing how we think about our footprint as we march our way through rapid continuous improvement we're obviously closing more facilities than we're opening and so when we think about eliminating a distribution site now we have to think about  one of the things that we have to think about is where is the product going to come from is there going to be offsetting transportation costs at sort of current transportation rates and what are the implications to making that decision or not.
So influence is everything we think about as we make these decisions but I don't think it's causing us to rethink any major change in our footprint.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions today.
I would like to thank everyone for joining today's call.
This concludes today's call and you may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr.
Pepper Snapple Group's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
We respectfully request a limit of one question per person.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Heather Catelotti Vice President Investor Relations.
Heather you may begin.
Thank you Maria and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor Statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor Statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young President and CEO and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Heather and good morning everyone.
As you saw in this morning's press release we've had a good start to the year and I am proud of what our teams have accomplished.
We continued to deliver against our key priorities and we drove strong top-line and bottom-line growth in a highly competitive environment.
We grew both dollar and volume share in CSDs and shelf-stable juice and expanded or held distribution and availability across our portfolio and RCI continues to permeate our organization from bottom to top delivering significant benefits.
For the quarter bottler case sales increased 1% on two points of positive mix and price.
CSD case sales increased 1% and non-carbs increased 3% in the quarter.
Brand Dr.
Pepper increased 1% in the quarter driven by strong volume growth in our Fountain business regular Dr.
Pepper increased over 2% in the quarter while Diet Dr.
Pepper declined 3% in the quarter which represents a sequential improvement in the recent diet trend.
Our Core 4 brands declined 1% in the quarter as a 7% increase in Canada Dry was more than offset by mid-single-digit declines in 7UP Sunkist and A&amp;W.
Schweppes increased 8% on growth of sparkling waters and ginger ale and Squirt increased 6%.
Peafiel grew 12% on increased promotional activity and distribution gains while Crush declined 4%.
All other CSD brands declined 1% in the quarter.
In non-carbs Snapple increased 11% primarily on product innovation Hawaiian Punch increased 2% and Mott's declined 7% in the quarter driven primarily by declines in juice.
Clamato grew 8% on increased promotional activity and our water category increased 6% on strong growth in Bai 5 FIJI and Vita Coco.
All other non-carb brands declined 3% in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis bottler case sales increased 2% on two percentage points of positive mix and price.
CSDs grew 2% while non-carbs increased 4%.
Dr.
Pepper was flat year-to-date and our Core 4 brands increased 1% as a 10% increase in Canada Dry was partially offset by mid-single-digit declines in 7UP and Sunkist soda and a low-single-digit decrease in A&amp;W.
Crush declined 4% and Schweppes grew 8% year-to-date.
Squirt increased 10% and Peafiel increased 15% while other  all other brands declined 1% year-to-date.
In non-carbs Snapple grew by 8% partially on growth from innovation and Hawaiian Punch increased 4%.
Mott's declined 4% driven primarily by declines in the juice.
Clamato grew 13% and our water category grew 8% on strong growth in Bai 5 FIJI and Vita Coco.
All other brands declined 2% year-to-date.
Adjusting for foreign currency transaction  translation year-over-year net sales increased 3% in the quarter and an 1% increase in shipment volume and favorable product package and segment mix.
Segment operating profit grew 7% in the quarter on a currency-neutral basis.
Core operating income increased 7% on net sales growth ongoing productivity improvements and lower commodity costs.
And finally core EPS increased 9% in the quarter on a currency-neutral basis.
Now that we're halfway through the year I thought I would share a quick update on how we're progressing against our key priorities for 2015.
Increasing distribution and availability of our key brands and packages continues to be a sizable opportunity for us.
Year-to-date we've held distribution of CSDs and grew Snapple premium distribution by nearly two points in grocery.
We've also gained over one point of distribution across Snapple in convenience and we've increased distribution of Mott's single-serve juice over three points in grocery which drove a 12% increase in single-serve volumes year-to-date.
Our single-serve distribution gains are the result of an RCI lean tracks a great example of how RCI can help drive growth.
We've added over 17 000 new fountain valves across both local accounts and national accounts expanding single-serve availability and creating new sampling occasions for our brands.
We continue to focus our innovation efforts on providing consumers options to meet their evolving needs.
This year we expanded our test of naturally sweetened CSDs to three regional markets and we'll continue to monitor how these products perform.
We launched Snapple Straight Up Tea nationally giving tea lovers a product with fresh-brewed tea taste in unsweetened and sweetened varieties.
We've also entered into arrangements with Bai and other new-age brand owners as a way to supplement our in-house innovation.
We expanded distribution of our Canada Dry and Schweppes sparkling waters introduced Hawaiian Punch pouches for moms looking for on-the-go convenience and finally we're rolling out Peafiel Mexico's number one mineral water to key Hispanic markets in the U.S.
RCI continues to help drive productivity and growth across the business through our lean tracks and business-led RCI.
This year we've taken another step forward in embedding RCI into our culture through DPS In Action a framework we'll use to implement lean management across the organization.
Marty will provide some additional color on our RCI journey in just a few moments.
As I look at our calendar for the balance of the year I am confident we have strong plans in place to build on our first-half momentum and continue driving excitement and engagement with our consumers and with our retail and bottling customers.
This summer brand Dr.
Pepper is once again partnering with the PJ Awards America's number-one Hispanic youth award program to celebrate Hispanic millennials' passion for music.
We'll offer consumers a chance to win a VIP trip to the award show in Miami and a private concert featuring Latin music sensation Romeo Santos.
We're also making this the summer of cherry by relaunching our Dr.
Pepper Cherry line with a smooth cherry flavor designed to bring consumers into the trademark.
And as we look to the fall we're excited to kick off year two of Dr.
Pepper's partnership with ESPN during college football.
And oh yes we're bringing back Larry Culpepper in some new commercial spots this upcoming season.
7UP will team up with two of the world's top electronic dance music DJs Tisto and Martin Garrix to create limited-edition 16-ounce cans and a unique music collaboration airing on national television.
We'll also bring back tropical-flavored 7UP for a limited time only and offer consumers a chance to win a VIP weekend in Las Vegas to meet both the DJs.
We know that soccer is a passion point for Hispanics so 7UP will be on the air during the Gold Cup as the official broadcast sponsor on FOX Sports and Univision and we'll offer consumers a once-in-a-lifetime game experience with soccer stars Tim Howard and Hector Herrera.
Our Born-in-New York #lovesnapple campaign is in full swing with national media featuring everyday people and celebrities from New York sharing why they love Snapple with the rest of America.
And our seasonal red raspberry white peach and blueberry-flavored Lady LiberTEA is giving tea lovers a refreshing new way to celebrate their American heritage.
Mott's has partnered with the blockbuster Minions movie to connect shoppers mom with her kids with movie-themed packaging and limited-edition flavors kids are sure to love.
And just in time for back-to-school Mott's is helping shopper mom support her school through the Box Tops for Education program.
I'm sure you'll agree that our plans are stronger than ever.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through our financial results and 2015 guidance.
Thanks Larry.
Good morning everyone.
For the quarter reported net sales increased almost 1.5% on an increase in sales volume of 1% and favorable product package and segment mix.
Limiting our net sales growth was two percentage points of unfavorable foreign currency translation slightly worse than our previous expectations driven by the further strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
While CSD pricing in both our concentrate and DSD businesses added almost a half point of consolidated net sales improvement it was partially offset primarily by growth in our pre-priced Venom Energy initiative.
Reported gross margins increased 10 basis points in the quarter increasing from 59.2% last year to 59.3% this year.
Strong productivity benefits including those from RCI increased gross margins by 50 basis points while lower commodity costs and certain other manufacturing cost improvements increased gross margins by another 70 basis points.
Product mix driven primarily by continued growth in our allied water brands which we purchase as finished goods and segment mix collectively reduced gross margins by 50 basis points.
Furthermore foreign currency reduced gross margins in the quarter by 40 basis points as Mexico sources certain input costs in U.S.
dollars and finished products sold in Canada are sourced from the U.S.
And finally the net effect of year-over-year mark-to-market comparisons decreased reported gross margins by approximately 10 basis points.
Now moving down the P&amp;L SG&amp;A for the quarter excluding depreciation decreased by $6 million on $9 million of favorable foreign currency translation and a favorable $6 million unrealized mark-to-market comparison.
All other SG&amp;A increased by just under 2%.
Depreciation and amortization expense declined $3 million in the quarter.
Reported operating income was $369 million in the quarter compared to $348 million last year.
Core operating income of $365 million was up 5% year-over-year and represented 22.1% of net sales up 80 basis points from 21.3% last year.
Below the operating line net interest expense was flat in the quarter and our effective tax rate for the quarter was 35.5% compared to 35.1% last year.
Moving on to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities was $349 million down $89 million compared to last year driven primarily by timing of bottler incentive billings vendor payments and higher 2015 incentive compensation payments made in the first quarter.
Capital spending was only $42 million compared to $71 million last year.
Total distributions to our shareholders were $423 million with $251 million in shares repurchased and $172 million in dividends paid.
Before I update you on our 2015 guidance let me provide you with a quick update on Rapid Continuous Improvement.
Larry mentioned DPS In Action which defines how we work.
Its core pillars consist of customer-driven work employee-led RCI lean daily management and data-driven solutions.
We've also developed an internal scorecard to measure our improvements in these areas over time.
These pillars define our RCI management process as we seek to make breakthrough change in safety quality delivery productivity and growth.
We break down some of our improvement activities into something we call lean tracks.
And as I mentioned last quarter we've implemented five new tracks this year targeted at waste elimination in areas such as non-working marketing spend ingredients and the customer deductions collection process.
We also have tracks focused on driving growth across our Canada Dry brand and through our Telcel channel.
These tracks are continuing to achieve solid results.
And let me just provide a few examples.
We've eliminated over 2 000 hours of agency work by implementing standard work across our marketing creative processes.
We've continued to focus on driver check-in and check-out times and this productivity improvement has already taken 30 delivery trucks off the road with absolutely no reduction in deliveries or customer service.
To-date we've gained over 7 000 additional points of distribution for Canada Dry and in our Ohio Valley region as a result of our Telcel track we've driven a 20% increase in volume on our higher-margin brands such as water and energy.
Like I've said before while these wins may appear small individually taken together and coupled with other RCI initiatives across the company they drive a meaningful impact.
And we have a long runway to go.
Now moving onto 2015 full-year guidance.
As you saw in this morning's release we have now raised our full-year core EPS guidance by $0.05 to a range of $3.85 to $3.93 based on stronger-than-expected first-half performance and our view of our balance-of-the-year activities.
We now believe our 2015 net sales will be up just over 1% net of a foreign currency translation headwind of about 2%.
While CSD category trends are improving slightly diets still do remain under pressure.
Therefore with 80% of our volume in CSDs we believe that total company sales volume for the year will be up about a half a point.
Our volume expectations reflect slight overall CSD declines offset by growth in our non-carb portfolio and allied brands.
On a total company basis we expect combined price and mix to be up about 2.5%.
Our January 1 concentrate price increase will drive about 40 basis points of this increase and the remainder will come from expected growth in our higher-priced non-carb and allied brands.
Foreign currency is now expected to be about a two-point headwind on net sales and inclusive of foreign currency transaction exposure about a 4% headwind on operating income and EPS.
To give you some further insight into our exchange rate assumptions we're currently planning the Mexican peso at MXN 15.75 to the dollar and the Canadian dollar at CAD 1.27 for the balance of the year.
Moving on to cost of goods.
We continue to expect packaging and ingredients deflation primarily from lower PET aluminum and apple juice concentrate.
However we now expect this deflation to reduce total cost of goods by approximately 1.5% on a constant volume mix basis.
For modeling purposes remember that growth from our non-carb portfolio and allied brands which are higher dollar revenue cases will also increase the dollar value of cost of goods.
Taken together these factors should result in a slight increase in gross margins for the year.
Moving to SG&amp;A.
Though we are still experiencing the higher cost effects of capacity shortages in the transportation industry recent RCI improvements have reduced our expected transportation exposure to about $10 million for the full year down $5 million from our previous guidance.
And given recent favorable trends we now expect health and welfare and other insurance costs to increase by about $10 million versus our previously communicated $20 million.
As previously communicated general inflation and field labor will increase total operating expenses by approximately $20 million.
That said RCI productivity benefits will help offset a portion of these increases.
We continue to expect marketing spending to be approximately 7.6% of net sales this year as we continue to hone our return on investment capabilities and ensure that we are maximizing every dollar we spend.
Now moving below segment operating profit.
Our net interest expense will be around 4.3% on our current debt structure of about $2.6 billion.
Our full-year core tax rate is expected to be approximately 35.5% and we continue to expect capital spending to be about 3% of net sales.
We expect to repurchase approximately $500 million to $550 million of our common stock this year subject to market conditions.
Before I turn the call back over to Larry let me highlight a couple of phasing items that will help you update your models.
First the cost of goods deflation of 1.5% will be more pronounced in the back half of the year.
Second the health and welfare and other insurance increases will be predominately in the third quarter.
And third marketing expenses are expected to increase by over $6 million in the third quarter based on program timing.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
Our priorities remain the same.
We will continue to execute our strategy in a competitive environment ensuring that we build awareness and relevance of our brands while executing with excellence in the marketplace.
We're committed to providing consumers with the options to address their evolving needs and lifestyle.
RCI continues to drive both top-line growth and productivity throughout the organization.
And importantly we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Brian.
I wanted to ask a question just specifically about pricing and I'm going to try not to muddle this.
But you've now gone through two holiday periods Memorial Day and July 4th and I know there's been a lot of focus in the analyst community about price elasticity and sort of the effect of the environment being less promotional.
The keys though are really how  I think how the holiday periods have  how we'd perform at the holiday periods.
So can you talk at all about whether or not the elasticities have been better than expected or better at the holiday periods themselves or whether it's the sort of off-holiday periods where the industry seems to be getting a little bit better? I hope that's clear.
Yes I think if I'm following you Brian I mean you know last year we looked at an awful lot of before the gas prices and the economy started ticking up a little bit but everybody was the first half of the month and was really tailing off towards the end.
I think we're seeing a little more consistency right now.
We still continue to see tremendous discipline in pricing out there.
I thought the pricing was excellent for both holiday seasons.
Not a lot of load in just good promotional activity which moved some product out there.
But I think we're seeing some improvement you know not major but some.
So it gives you some confidence that that will hold for Memorial as we go to the holidays for the balance of the year that nothing to suggest that it would be more it would need to be more promotional or different at let's say Labor Day or some of the other holiday periods? Nothing at all.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Thanks good morning guys.
Morning John.
Morning John.
Wanted to ask a question  two questions.
First off Larry you commented on diets and the weaknesses there.
And can you talk about two things? One is sort of your view in terms of any updated thoughts on mid-cal as a possibility or is it really sort of an all-natural sweetener that needs to happen and kind of how you think the formulations will move going forward? And then a second separate question which is for Marty which is about sort of the one-offs that you mentioned on the gross margin line how we should expect those to impact gross margin over the balance of the year things like transactional FX et cetera.
Thanks.
All right yeah I'll start.
John I think it's going to be a combination of diet mid-cals natural the TENs.
You take our TEN product we've got a great consumer base there.
You've got people that are maybe happier with a mid-cal if it's natural.
We're very excited about seeing our diets kind of bucking the trend out there right now.
Diet Dr.
Pepper was down 3%.
And I think a lot of it you've heard us talk about it in the first quarter that we were putting some immediate marketing against Diet Dr.
Pepper and everything's showing us it's working.
And so we're excited about that.
We've got Dr.
Pepper back to growth I mean so we've got a lot of the summer selling season still going we're seeing that growing diet looking better.
The TEN is still out there serving a purpose.
We're testing the mid-cal the natural in three markets and hopefully in the third quarter we can give you an update on that.
But my answer would be it's going to be a combination of all three.
This consumer is very different anymore.
And John let me talk about gross margins.
So a couple factors of course productivity improvements have been strong.
We've guided on COGS deflation for the year.
FX transaction impacts so again because our Mexican business it's principally resin for them that's U.S.
dollar-denominated and our warehouse-direct products in Canada which are sourced out of our plants in the U.S.
I would say that impact in the back half will be about what it was in the first half it might be slightly lower but about what it was so you can model that.
And the other point I want to make for you and everybody is as we continue to grow our allied brands because we buy these we don't manufacture them ourselves they come with a higher gross margin a higher  a lower gross margin because of higher cost but they're very accretive to the operating profitability.
Okay.
So nice price mix benefit offset at the gross margin line.
Correct.
And I guess the question then would be how do we model the SG&amp;A implications of that then? I guess I would model consistent with sort of where you see our run rate SG&amp;A plus overlay the few items I mentioned about transportation and insurance and other factors.
Because we've been  over time these brands have been growing great.
They do have a little different complexion below the line for us.
But I think work off current trends I think you'll be okay.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Bill.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey a couple quick ones.
On that beverage concentrate write-up you guys had in the press release there was some commentary about higher discounts.
What is that because your commentary suggested and all the data suggest that things are very rational? Yes that's  so our funding back to our bottling partners is accrued on a bottler case sales basis and we have stronger flow through the system.
We have increased accruals for funding which in essence means over time it's timing.
Right? If you believe that case sales over time and shipment volumes over time true up it's really timing and the periods in which we accrue the funding.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that makes sense.
Was this the one quarter with the timing catch-up and it should be sort of normalized the rest of the year? Is that kind of the way to look at it? You know we like when bottler case sales keep ahead of our shipments; that means people need to replenish.
But over time you'd have to expect them to come in line for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
You know your balance sheet is in unbelievably good shape and you talked about the gross margin hit from some of these allied brands.
Why haven't you been more active maybe trying to buy some of them? I know you made that equity stake in Bai 5.
But intuitively it seems like they're good businesses.
I know multiples are pretty high but is that part of your consideration set? Well you answered your question Bill.
I'm serious.
There are a lot of good things happening I think in the space broadly.
And you know we've partnered with a few of them whether it's Bai or Vita Coco for example and we're looking at some others.
And as Larry said in his prepared remarks it's a great way for us to use the opportunity the entrepreneurial passion of these organizations to drive innovation that admittedly would unlikely come out of this organization and we're not afraid to admit that.
So we're okay partnering with these companies.
To acquire them would be just too expensive and we're not sure the right thing to do in terms of the amount of money it would actually take to own all these businesses.
They're great partners.
We love some of the innovation they have in their pipelines.
And some of this little bit of equity for example that we took in Bai wasn't so much about buying some equity because we're not a PE firm was as much to help them fund some future innovation which is going to flow through our system.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That makes total sense.
And then just lastly it seems like most of the RCI so far has been gross margins unless I'm wrong.
Do you think there's an overhead opportunity? I know it's hard to benchmark across companies; I've asked this before but as a percentage of sales the non-transportation/advertising overhead is a little bit higher than some of the peers.
So is that going to be an opportunity going forward? Well I don't know what peers we're looking at because all our business models are different.
Our complexion across the beverage base SG&amp;A for the most part is structural.
When you compare it across the industry in terms of how much DSD business do you have versus concentrate business? As we said we're applying RCI everywhere.
We talked about growth opportunities Canada Dry.
Last year we talked about Snapple on the growth side.
Telcel channel which we think is going to be a big upside opportunity for us to penetrate (31:38) C-stores.
And of course supply chain that's where traditional lean is applied.
But as we said marketing spend non-working marketing spend there's opportunities everywhere.
And I just remember and those of you on the call that have been involved with us since we began this journey when our margins were in the upper teens and everybody said gee can you get to 20%? Well that's in our rearview mirror right now.
And I don't think I would have predicted this back then.
Okay.
I don't know where we can do but I'll tell you we see opportunity everywhere and you can tell we're confident about it.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
I appreciate your time guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Judy.
Hi Judy.
So my first question is just on your price mix and I think we've talked about this in the past but just the way we see your price mix seems a little bit more modest than some of your peers.
So can you  I know you talked about a little bit of the Venom issue in the Q2 but can you just talk broadly about how you see that kind of playing out in the back half of the year? As you think about I think in the past you've talked about it maybe increasing the capability on the packaging mix side.
So should we see some of that contributing more to the mix side of the equation as you look out 6 to 12 months? Okay Judy it's Marty.
So yes if you simply look at and I assume we were referring to CSDs only and you look at the implied price mix coming out of the Nielsens yes we look lower than our two competitors.
And we know one of our competitors particularly although both but one in particular has an abundance of different package sizes smaller package sizes which you know we do participate in in those markets where they have brand Dr.
Pepper.
We too are moving down that pathway.
I doubt you'll see us have as many packages.
We're not sure that that added complexity makes sense for our operating model but does make sense at the top line and for our consumers.
And so you're going to see us moving down a little bit.
So they're advantaged in terms of price per equivalent ounce that they can capture.
But in terms of our underlying pricing as I said we really if you look at our pricing pure pricing in CSDs and strip out some of the  some things that offset it it was about it added about  about 1% of our CSD business about a half a point across the total company revenue because we don't really break out our CSD sales in our DSD business.
The offsets were we've been growing Venom.
We've decided to take advantage of the opportunity in that category.
It's pre-priced cans $0.99.
We've got some new flavors.
And we're actually getting a pretty good take  it's small but it was enough to partially offset the increase I just said.
And truthfully there was another offset.
As part of our Snapple strategy we introduced three variations of straight tea sweetened lightly sweetened unsweetened.
We previously had a lightly sweetened tea in the Snapple traditional glass bottle.
These new ones are in 18.5 ounce PET.
So we sold off at discounted prices the old inventory the old product.
And we've deemphasized and more or less discontinued our Snapple value gallons because we're focused on premium and we decided to go ahead and sell off some of that inventory at lower prices.
So those two offset.
But underlying our pure pricing on our CSDs would be about 1%.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And Marty just on your guidance so if I sort of take all the changes that you've called out today the more favorable transportation costs the health and welfare costs and then partly offsetting that was I guess more adverse FX.
I still come up with a number that's maybe about a dime higher than your prior guidance.
So I know we may be splitting hairs maybe it's a range but is there anything that you can kind of point to where maybe I'm missing something here just in terms of that bridge? No.
Well Judy let me overlay a couple considerations.
First of all let's talk about Mexico.
We don't talk a lot about Mexico on these calls but it's becoming an increasingly important part of our business.
And obviously their results are actually fantastic.
This last quarter on a currency-neutral basis sales up 5% in dollars and operating profit up 29%.
Lot of growth down there in Peafiel.
We've done a great job with brand Peafiel and including penetrating the largest C-store chain in Mexico OXXO.
We're going to start lapping some of that in the second half.
Now that's built into our growth guidance for the balance of the year.
But I want to point that out to everybody.
And built in is still some conservative view maybe not conservative but just view on where CSDs are going relative to where we've been in CSDs and not attempting to get too optimistic just yet on what can happen in that category as it relates to us.
We want to be a little conservative.
I don't know that's about all I can say Judy.
I think you guys can tumble the numbers.
And we took our guidance up to a level that we're very comfortable with.
And so I'll leave that with you.
Okay.
And then marketing as a percentage of sales you said it's unchanged.
But in the second quarter did you give us that number how much marketing was up in the second quarter? I didn't give it to you.
But I would tell you it's up $1 million.
And just coincidentally that for the first half of the year actually marketing spending came in at 7.6% of sales.
We've said it's going to be 7.6% for the year.
So if I remember my mathematics correctly it sounds like it should be 7.6% in the second half.
Got it.
Yeah.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Amit Sharma of BMO Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Marty just talking about  you talked Mexico and a question on that.
Clearly margins are up pretty big in the first half.
Is this simply a larger payout from the distribution gains you had last year and earlier this year as well? Or is there more incremental productivity that you're finding there? I would tell you that in Mexico we've done some great innovation and coupled with RCI.
And that includes sort of changes in certain product formulations and other things that have added value to the products while being able to improve the gross margins on those products.
When you talk about distribution in Mexico I think many of you know this.
We are not actually very well distributed throughout the country at all.
We're concentrated in the middle part of the country Mexico City Guadalajara to the North a little bit.
There's actually lots of white space for us in Mexico and we think that's a good runway.
But over the last few years we wanted to make sure that our business down there had a solid foundation the house was in order.
We believe that's critically important to establish that foundation for growth.
This business the margins now are in the low-double-digits and I remember when they were in the single-digits.
This is a textbook case of classic improvement up and down the business solid team solid foundation and we've got some growth opportunity there.
Great.
And then your BCS volume as you said were running a little bit ahead of your concentrate shipments.
Is that something that concentrate shipments will catch up in the back half or will we continue to see a little bit of a lag there? I can't it's hard to predict the BCS volumes by themselves but you would expect it catch up.
Okay.
Got it.
And then Larry a question for you.
I mean in most beverage and food categories that we cover pricing tends to be more rational when commodities the environment is challenging and discounting levels tend to rise when commodities are favorable.
And we're seeing quite the opposite here in the CSD category right? So the question is when commodities do turn and they will would you expect to lose some of the discipline as companies trying to scramble to hold share at that point? Or do you expect this behavior to continue even if commodities environment changes? No I think it would continue and probably even more so if commodities increased.
I think we see everybody more taking some price.
I don't think it would be an issue of the share but I feel very confident going forward.
I think you're right.
I mean Commodities aren't going to stay like this forever but we're hoping they get back to more of a normal where the algorithms that we can look at as commodity is a couple of percent each year and just go on from that.
But if they do we'll definitely have pricing that will capture it.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer of Cowen &amp; Company.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
My one question has to do with the Dr.
Pepper brand.
Clearly the improvement is encouraging and seemingly the improvement in diet is certainly helping but it also feels like the underlying Dr.
Pepper brand itself is looking a little bit healthier.
So can you talk to that a little bit? Is it benefiting from a halo around the increased media? Anything you could offer on that would be helpful.
Thank you.
Yes as I mentioned in my prepared remarks our fountain food service volumes was up very strong so we were excited about that.
We've got a bunch more new accounts coming on especially taking on diet which is also helping our diet.
I think with our marketing campaign again that we did on diets to kind of help that turn that around.
Our fast food partners out there are picking up on that liking that seeing people come in and do it.
Also I mean we just continue to focus on our priority brand execution out there with our partners.
I think everyone is excited when they see Dr.
Pepper back to growth and then look at it and say we're coming into.
Not only are we back at growth now but we're coming into Dr.
Pepper's time of year with college football.
I mean as we get coming in with that and we got the right momentum with the diet we feel very very good and so do our partners that Dr.
Pepper will continue to be a strong brand.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Nik Modi of RBC Capital Markets.
Yes good morning everyone.
Good morning.
The quick question I had was really around the diet portfolio.
And Larry I was curious if you could comment on Pepsi reformulating and have you thought about potentially testing a diet version with a different sweetener? Any help around that would be useful.
No I mean we watch everything that's out there.
I mean we're very satisfied with our diet Dr.
Pepper and with the aspartame the taste I mean that's the profile.
Our customer our consumers love it.
We have a lot of products out there that  our Diet Rite is sweetened with Splenda.
We have different sweeteners across the portfolio.
But as far as our Core 4 and our Dr.
Pepper our base business we'll be watching everything but we're very pleased with where we're at right now.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Hi guys.
Hi Marty wanted to get an update on your thoughts around returning cash to shareholders.
Fundamental outlook looks like it's improved here over the last year or two with U.S.
CSD pricing turning more rational on the limited demand elasticity.
Your Mexican business is performing well.
So we'd love to get your perspective on if improved fundamentals give you more comfort going forward that you can increase your payout ratio or your dividend going forward or take on more debt leverage than the two times level you're at here.
Dara it's Marty.
So we do return all of our cash and you're  so your question goes to allocation on the one hand between dividends and share repurchase.
Our payout ratio is about  it's about a 50-50 split right now.
We've always said that if we were to lean one way or the other we would lead into the dividend more so and tick the payout ratio up and that's still our point of view.
And that's annual consideration by our board every February.
In terms of using leverage we're about two times.
We said we early on were targeting two and a quarter times.
That's come down a little bit as our EBITDA has gone up.
We're not looking to materially change the capital structure of the company.
It's just  our point of view is that's not necessarily the way we ought to create value.
And so we sort of like the mix and like the profile today.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy of Jefferies.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
So first one for Marty.
The question is on long-term profit growth for DPS.
And I guess this goes back so you guys decided to take the 3% to 5% sales growth off the table I guess a few years a couple years ago now.
But the irony is you've exceeded the old high-single-digit EPS growth target for a couple years and I understand the commodities are favorable.
But Marty I guess based on kind of how and Larry too how you see the environment with greater pricing discipline you talked about the long runway for productivity and again understanding commodities could be a wild card are you thinking high-single-digit sort of EPS growth is sustainable now going forward for DPS? Yeah.
It's an interesting question because when we saw this quarter's numbers and thought about where we had been in the past and our years ago talking about 3% to 5% top line I know Steve Powers was trying to call he would ask me if for every one (46:05) you're going to take that number down as the world was changing on us.
It is interesting that when we look at FX-neutral translation-neutral results this quarter being up 3% and having the leverage at the operating line up 7% and as you said EPS up 9% that was in essence our model then.
And I think the financial construct of the company and the cost structure of the company sort of indicates that this is achievable if we can get the top line but you know the business is competitive the business is challenging.
We think we're doing some good things.
But if you were to tell me we could be at these levels of revenue growth could we drop sort of mid or so improvements in operating profitability and a little higher in EPS? Absolutely.
The question is over the long term can we achieve this level of revenue improvement? But the model will work.
Very good.
That's helpful.
And then a quick one for Larry.
Just on Coke's re-franchised bottlers as they're in the process of continuing that have you seen any difference? Do you expect to see any difference in terms of execution there in those regions? Thank you.
No.
We've we're very familiar with all of these bottlers.
They handle our Dr.
Pepper right now.
I think the re-franchising is going very well very smooth and our bottling partners are excited to be picking up more territory.
Very good.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
Hey guys.
I have a few questions but I want to focus on maybe two things.
One is if you can unpack and maybe quantify a little bit more the SG&amp;A drivers so you talked a little bit about distribution health and welfare going forward.
But in the quarter if you can talk a little bit more that and then I feel little marketing as well at least in this quarter as a percentage of sales.
And in that if you could talk about the effect of allied brands I think I get it on the gross margin line but what the kind of effect would be on the SG&amp;A line.
And if that becomes a bigger and bigger piece of your business does that just continue to be a tailwind for you going forward? So first on SG&amp;A.
Yeah Ali let me take it.
It's Marty.
Good morning.
Okay.
Let's talk about SG&amp;A in Q2.
Let's get grounded on what happened in Q2.
As I said in my prepared remarks so foreign currency reduced dollar reported expense levels by $9 million.
Our mark-to-market adjustments on commodities so in SG&amp;A that's where our fuel contracts occur that actually year-over-year net reduced dollar reported SG&amp;A by $6 million so you had a $15 million decline there.
We took up about $3 million in higher incentive compensation accruals given where our results are first half of the year and then just everything else was sort of just as I said some general inflation okay which we said was less than 2% so we're pleased there.
Look on the allied brands the real issue  so you understand the gross margin impact these go right to our distribution centers they really go right on the truck.
So in essence there's very little  when we look at it we don't really add anything incrementally.
So it's more about call it variable drop here or contribution margin.
There's no real incremental costs.
There's some but it's really at the margin and so we get a nice profit drop-through.
Okay.
And one  sorry one thing you did mention and this is (49:44) specifically as SG&amp;A and I think that's part of the kind of cost reduction you guys are doing.
For what it's worth we're starting to hear a little bit of squirming from your employees and former employees and of course you have to always take that with a grain of salt but about gosh maybe it's going a little too far in some areas.
Is there any kind of reasonable reason why folks would be nervous or concerned that perhaps it's going a little bit too far in some areas? You know Ali the answer is no and I find it interesting that we're probably the only company in our space that's not been aggressively restructuring and taking loads of people out.
So I'll tell  our people don't walk around this company looking over their shoulder worrying whether they're going to have a job come next week and that's very healthy for our organization.
And as well I'll say I don't think  we don't necessarily (50:39) run thin  we don't underpay our people.
We look at this all the time.
And so I think  I don't think we think much to it.
And I'll tell you everywhere Larry and I travel in this company for the people who work for this company they're thrilled and not just what we're getting done but the way we're getting it done.
The fact that we're listening to them we say change is led by our employees not by management.
They love that they love participating.
And that's why we can grow  we can grow and grow profitability.
And the last time I looked I  you can't find restructuring charges in our numbers because we don't feel we need to go that way.
Okay.
No that's helpful.
And last question kind of a bigger-picture question you guys were part of a bigger company.
Actually Larry and Marty came after but were certainly part of a bigger company and now you're on your own and clearly doing quite well.
Is there a time in the future where you would be better off as part of a bigger company and is that just too far away for kind of an investable (51:45) timeframe to think about? Or are there milestones where you say gosh at this point we need international exposure or we need being part of a bigger distribution system? Or at what point if ever do you think it might actually be worthwhile to be again part of a bigger company? The answer is no.
So you'd never think that there would be a benefit? We can operate  the way we're operating the way we have the behaviors the culture.
Whenever people ask us about why don't we buy some of these new allied brands and these startups I mean we look top-heavy whenever you look at them how fast they can move and why we don't want to go in and mess them up.
As Marty has said especially with RCI and what we look at in distribution and availability our runway is very very long.
And we've got a strategy we've got a tactical plan in place.
And we're going to continue to work it drive our priorities and we're very very happy with the size we are and what we're capable of doing.
Thanks very much guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg of Stifel Financial.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yes thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hi Mark.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Larry a question on the Core 4.
We saw a slowdown in that portion of the portfolio's bottler case sales performance and I was wondering if you could speak a little bit more to your outlook for that component of the portfolio.
I think there's going to be a pickup in spend against 7UP here in the second half.
I think the 10-calorie laps are going to ease at some point over the next few quarters but just help us understand what's really going on under the hood there and what your plans are to improve performance there.
No you're exactly right Mark.
I mean for the year we're up 1% we're very happy with that.
We were lapping some heavier activity in Q2 the last year so we were not too concerned about it.
Our activation plans and marketing plans for 7UP in the third and fourth quarter you heard me in my prepared remarks.
We've got a lot of things going on there not only with the electronic  I don't know what this music is called but all that flashing and everything.
But also the World Cup and the Gold Cup on soccer which is going to really drive us a bunch out there.
We've got some LTOs for the summer that we'll come back in with.
So we think the core is going to look good.
But the biggest thing on Q2 is just lapping some heavier activity last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And is it fair to think that these 10-calorie laps have been an issue? And they become less of an  (NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/A" title="Agilent Technologies Inc.">A</a>) is it fair to consider them an issue in the quarter that we just saw here? And (NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/B" title="Barnes Group Inc">B</a>) when in your opinion do they become less of an issue from a lapping perspective? I think it was a slight issue on lapping those.
I mean it's  you're exactly right.
It's starting to trend off.
There's still a sizable piece of our business.
We have a good consumer base that likes those brands.
So it's kind of settling into where it's going to be in the lineup.
But it's not that big of an impact on.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it got it.
And then if I could also Marty just kind of a subcomponent if you will of RCI this focus on the distinction within your marketing dollars between working and non-working I think you're looking for something on the order of about a $5 million improvement in the non-working number? But could you just give us a little more color on how that's going? And if it's possible even that split as you see it what portion of your dollars presently do you think are non-working on a percentage of total marketing spend basis? And so Mark you're right.
We did target this year.
That team targeted a $5 million savings and non-working dollars are not insignificant in terms of the whole so it's a good number to go after.
Lot of ways  obviously we run zero non-working dollars.
Right? We run every one of our dollars to work towards our brands.
As I said in my prepared remarks here's a classic one just basic standard work.
We use outside creative agencies to do work for us.
They can only do the work based on the specs we give them.
And when you get into the process you realize that there are iterations through these specs.
They go back and forth and that is just rework.
Those are defects and they need to be eliminated.
And that's  and when we talk standard work we mean standard work.
We mean there's a  we are creating a process a step-by-step process that everyone will adhere to to eliminate all that.
That's  that principle you can sort of apply anywhere in the company standard work in any process get rid of defects get rid of iterations and rework and so far so good.
I mean as I said they've eliminated  you could  2 000 hours of cost per hour with outside agencies is not an insignificant sum of money so there you have it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And last one is on the input comment can you give us any help as we  we all obviously have models that go beyond calendar 2015 and you made the comment about deflation being more beneficial if you will in the second half.
And we all know what the spot markets are.
So it just seems reasonable to think that the one-and-a-half becomes an even bigger benefit if you will in calendar 2016.
If things stay if the spot markets for the various inputs stay where they are presently is that a fair way to think about our models for calendar 2016? Mark it's just too early for me.
And I haven't seen enough.
I know where I've seen where our commodities are hedged through and we've got some decent coverages already into 2016.
But in terms of the total impact in next year's COGS I need a few months here as we begin in the fall in the planning process to see where it all shakes out.
But needless to say we feel good about our hedge positions and oh by the way the open positions right now are not too bad because most of the things that are important to us have softened.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
Got it.
Great.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Your final question this morning comes from the line of Rob Ottenstein of Evercore.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I was wondering if you can give us a little bit more detail on Diet Dr.
Pepper which had a strong quarter? How sustainable is that reduced decline which is doing better than your  a lot of your peers? And what amount of that improvement had to do with increased distribution? I think the majority of it is from our marketing the media that we've put behind it that was  before whenever we started going down our media was basically Pepper Diet Pepper and Pepper TEN together.
And we broke the set out with Lil' Sweet that is Diet Dr.
Pepper completely so I'm going to give the majority of that turnaround to my marketing department and our media partners that were able to put that together for us.
Sustainable very sustainable.
I'm very excited about how we can use that through college football that we can continue this momentum.
And as far as added availability I mean Pepper Diet Pepper's basically everywhere.
I mean it's good ACV out there so maybe a little more tie-in rates because of us being able to do the median because we can show a lesser decline that we may be on a track to grow again helps with our bottling partners and our retail partners out there.
Great.
And then just as a follow-up on 7UP I know the majority of the marketing and promotion is in the second half of the year and you went through that.
But as I recollect and correct me if I'm wrong you did a lot of that last year and I would have thought you would see some benefit in the first half.
Can you give us any more sense in terms of why the first half was so weak for 7UP? Yeah no we had a good first quarter and year-to-date were up one with our Core out there right now.
So I think with what we have coming up especially the  the third trimester is always the biggest time for the green bottle 7UP Canada Dry everything for the holidays and the mixers.
So we're not concerned with what happened in the second quarter.
Everything we're showing is that we've got the right plans in place just a little less activity in this year in Q2 than we had last year.
So third quarter is going to look good for us.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Well I'll end by saying again that we're pleased with our first half performance and feel confident in our commitments for the remainder of the year.
Thanks for joining the call today and for your continued interest and investment in Dr.
Pepper Snapple Group.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
We respectfully request a limit of one question per person.
It is now my pleasure to introduce Heather Catelotti Vice President-Investor Relations.
Heather you may begin.
Thank you Jackie and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor Statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These future statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update the forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors' page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young President and CEO and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Heather and good morning everyone.
As you saw on this morning's release we once again posted another quarter of strong results in a continuously challenged environment.
Our teams remained focused on our key priorities.
We're driving better execution in the marketplace and continued engagement with our consumers through relevant and innovative programming.
Our continuous improving capabilities surrounding marketing return on investment trade promotion effectiveness and the organization-wide depth and breadth of RCI initiatives are contributing significantly to our growth and improvements in productivity.
For the quarter bottler case sales increased 2% on 3 points of positive mix and price.
CSD case sales increased 2% and non-carbs increased 4% in the quarter.
Brand Dr Pepper was flat in the quarter.
We achieved strong volume growth in our fountain business.
Regular Dr Pepper increased 2% in the quarter while Diet Dr Pepper declined 4% in the quarter which reflects better than overall diet category performance.
Our Core 4 brands were flat in the quarter as an 8% increase in Canada Dry was offset in mid-single digit declines of 7UP and Sunkist soda and a low-single digit decline in A&amp;W.
Crush was flat in the quarter and Schweppes increased 11% on growth of sparkling waters and ginger ale.
Squirt increased 5% and Peafiel grew 14% on increased promotional activity and distribution gains.
All of the CSD brands declined 1% in the quarter.
In non-carbs Snapple increased 5% primarily on product innovation.
Hawaiian Punch decreased 1% and Mott's was flat in the quarter.
Clamato grew 15% on distribution gains and our water category increased 16% on strong growth in Bai 5 and FIJI.
All other non-carb brands declined 3% in the quarter.
On a year-to-date basis bottler case sales increased 2% on 3 percentage points of positive mix and price.
CSDs grew 2% while non-carbs increased 4%.
Dr Pepper was flat year-to-date and our Core 4 brands increased 1% as a 9% increase in Canada Dry was partially offset by mid-single digit declines of 7UP and Sunkist soda and a low-single digit decrease in A&amp;W.
Crush declined 2% and Schweppes grew 9% year-to-date.
Squirt increased 8% and Peafiel increased 15% while all other brands declined 1% year-to-date.
In non-carbs Snapple grew by 7% primarily on growth from innovation Hawaiian Punch increased 2% and Mott's declined 3% year-to-date.
Clamato grew 14% and our water category grew 11% on strong growth in Bai 5 and FIJI.
All other brands declined 2% year-to-date.
We are pleased with our results this quarter.
Adjusting for foreign currency translation net sales increased 5% in the quarter on a 3% increase in shipment volumes and favorable price product and package mix.
These increases were partially offset by customer funding in our fountain foodservice business.
Segment operating profit grew 10% in the quarter on a currency neutral basis.
Core operating income increased 9% on net sales growth lower commodity costs and ongoing productivity improvements that were partially offset by higher operating expenses.
Adjusting for foreign currency translation core operating income grew 12%.
And finally core EPS also increased 12% in the quarter on a currency neutral basis.
There's no question that our consumer-relevant programming has contributed to our strong results to-date and we're keeping that momentum going as we finish out the year.
It's the most exciting time of the year for brand Dr Pepper.
College football season has kicked off once again and we've kicked off year two of our partnership with ESPN and the College Football Playoffs.
We'll generate close to 2.6 billion impressions across both traditional and digital media platforms ensuring that we're always on.
We're rolling out custom football and playoff packaging and merchandising and we've partnered with our largest retail and bottling customers to drive incremental retail activation.
And yes we brought back Larry Culpepper in several new spots this season.
In short Dr Pepper will dominate college football.
We'll also continue the Dr Pepper Tuition Giveaway program this year adding to the over $7 million we've given away since 2008.
We've already received several hundred thousand votes so far for contestants and we've partnered with Jimmy Kimmel to create a digital series of webisodes that chronicle the journeys of contestants as they prepare for the live throws.
Halloween is right around the corner and this year our seasonal Core 4 monster cans are returning with a new look.
We're daring kids to make their monsters come to life by using an app on their phone or tablet.
7UP has once again partnered with the Latin Grammys to celebrate Hispanics' passion for music giving consumers a chance to win a trip to the biggest night in Latin music.
And just in time for the holidays Canada Dry Schweppes and 7UP will give shopper mom a reason to celebrate with recipes and tips for easy entertaining and will drive incremental points of interruption at retail with holiday theme merchandising across all these brands.
Finally we'll continue to deliver excitement and variety with our new seasonal Snapple Fall Spice Tea a refreshing black tea with a hint of orange cranberry and spice flavors inspired by the season.
I'm sure you'll agree that we're keeping the momentum going.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through our financial results and 2015 guidance.
Thanks Larry.
Good morning everyone.
For the quarter reported net sales increased 3% on a 3% increase in sales volume and 3 percentage points of combined product and package mix and price realization.
Partially offsetting this net sales growth was a higher level of customer funding in our fountain business which reduced net sales growth by 1%.
Net sales growth was also partially offset by 2 percentage points of unfavorable foreign currency translation as we had previously expected.
Reported gross margins increased about 30 basis points in the quarter increasing from 58.4% last year to 58.7% this year notwithstanding 70 basis points of headwind from year-over-year mark-to-market impacts on commodity hedges.
Lower commodity costs driven primarily by packaging increased gross margins by 100 basis points in the quarter and continued strong productivity benefits including those from RCI increased gross margins by another 60 basis points.
Other manufacturing costs showed improvement of 30 basis points as we adopted a Lean accounting practice last year of expensing all small spare parts resulting in $5 million of additional expense last year.
Product mix driven primarily by continued growth in our allied water brands which we purchase as finished goods reduced gross margins by about 45 basis points.
And finally foreign currency reduced gross margins in the quarter by 40 basis points as Mexico sources certain inputs in U.S.
dollars and finished products sold in Canada are sourced from the U.S.
For the quarter SG&amp;A excluding depreciation increased by $11 million on increases in operating expenses driven by higher volumes and expected inflation.
We also experienced an unfavorable comparison to certain health and wellness and risk insurance true-ups in the prior year.
All other SG&amp;A increased by just over 1%.
And finally foreign currency translation reduced reported SG&amp;A expenses by $13 million.
Depreciation and amortization declined $2 million in the quarter reflecting our recent trends in capital spending efficiencies.
Reported operating income was $337 million in the quarter compared to $316 million last year.
Core operating income of $347 million was up 9% year-over-year and represented 21.3% of net sales up 120 basis points from 20.1% last year.
Adjusting for foreign currency translation core operating income was up 12% for the quarter and 10% year-to-date.
Below the operating line net interest expense increased $1 million in the quarter and our reported effective tax rate was 34.4% compared to 34% last year.
Now moving on to cash flow.
Cash from operating activities was $723 million down $46 million compared to last year caused primarily by timing of working capital.
Capital spending was $71 million compared to $103 million last year.
But we do expect higher levels of capital spending in the fourth quarter principally related to packaging line additions to support growth in Mexico and the U.S.
We believe we will be able to fund all necessary growth investments within our annual CapEx target of 3% of sales owing to the capital efficiencies gained through RCI.
Total distributions to our shareholders were $668 million with $404 million in shares repurchased and $264 million in dividends paid.
Before I move on to guidance let me give a quick update on RCI and our Lean tracks.
Recall that our Lean tracks are specific areas of focus that are led by senior operating managers or Lean leaders.
These tracks are continuing to achieve solid results and let me provide a few examples.
We've continued to improve on driver check-in and check-out times and this productivity improvement has taken 60 delivery trucks off the road to date with no reductions in sales deliveries or customer service.
Our Canada Dry growth track has driven strong results with 53% growth on smaller packages just in the Southeast region alone.
We've continued to close Dr Pepper display tie-in rates by using the tools of RCI with our bottling partners.
As an example we've seen a 19% increase in one of our larger New York markets.
We've reduced off invoice deductions by almost 30% in our Mid-Central region as a result of our accounts receivable Lean track.
And we're seeing double-digit distribution increases on high margin brands through our Telcel Lean track in several markets across the country.
Those are just a few results from some of our lean tracks.
We have so much more activity happening across the entire organization.
As one example our supply chain recently utilized the tools of RCI to improve its sourcing footprint which will reduce over 1 000 truckloads of internal distribution transfers a year.
As we've said before we utilize the tools of RCI across the business on a daily basis and we continue to see wins in many different areas.
And while we're proud of what the organization has accomplished in the last four years we still have a tremendous amount of opportunity ahead of us.
Now moving on to 2015 full-year guidance today we have raised our full year core EPS guidance to a range of $3.92 to $3.98 up about 1.5%.
As a reminder core EPS last year was $3.65.
We now believe our 2015 net sales growth will be approximately 2% net of a foreign currency translation headwind of approximately 2%.
Based on strong year-to-date performance we now expect total company sales volume for the full year to be up about a point with CSDs flat and growth coming from our non-carb portfolio.
I remind you that this CSD expectation is above current Nielsen measured market trends.
We expect combined price and mix to be about 3% concentrate pricing is driving about 40 basis points of this increase and the remainder will primarily come from expected growth in our higher priced non-carb and allied brands.
As we previously communicated foreign currency is expected to be about a 2-point headwind on net sales and inclusive of foreign currency transaction exposure just over a 4% headwind on operating income and just over a 4.5% headwind on EPS.
Our estimates of foreign currency impacts assume the Mexican peso at MXN 17 and the Canadian dollar at C$1.34 both to the U.S.
dollar for the balance of the year.
Moving on to cost of goods.
We continue to expect packaging and ingredients deflation primarily from lower PET aluminum and apple juice concentrate.
We now expect this deflation to reduce total cost of goods by approximately 2% on a constant volume mix basis.
For modeling purposes remember that growth from our non-carb portfolio and allied brands which are higher dollar revenue cases will also increase the dollar value of cost of goods.
Taken together these factors should result in a slight increase in gross margins for the year.
Moving to SG&amp;A though we are still experiencing the higher cost effects of capacity shortages in the transportation industry recent RCI improvements have reduced our expected transportation exposure to about $5 million for the full year down $5 million from our previous guidance.
We continue to expect inflation in our operating expenses and an increase in health and welfare and risk insurance expenses of approximately $30 million collectively.
We also continue to expect marketing spending to be approximately 7.6% of net sales in 2015 which implies an increase in the fourth quarter driven by incremental year-over-year college football activity.
Now moving below segment operating profit our net interest expense will now be around 4.4% on our current debt structure of about $2.6 billion.
Our full-year core tax rate is expected to be approximately 35.5% and we continue to expect capital spending to be approximately 3% of net sales again with a heavier spending level in the fourth quarter.
We expect to repurchase approximately $500 million to $550 million of our common stock in 2015 subject to market conditions.
With that said let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with a few brief thoughts.
We continue to remain focused on our key priorities ensuring that we build our brands while executing with excellence in the marketplace and driving productivity throughout the business.
RCI continues to permeate the organization and drive tangible benefits.
It will provide us with a strong foundation for sustainable improvement.
And importantly we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator we're ready for our first question.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Steve Powers with UBS.
Hey good morning.
Hi Steve.
So it's great to see you hanging in that 3% to 5% top-line range that you used to target but I do want to dig into the drivers there a little bit.
If I look over the last year to 18 months we've definitely seen improvements spread pretty much across the board volumetrically and the pricing environment has definitely been supportive which is great.
But as you called out in part a disproportionate amount of the improved growth has come from better distribution of Peafiel and distribution on your portfolio of newer allied brands like Bai.
I just want your thoughts on the sustainability of that part of the equation versus your traditional core.
The sustainability there Steve is  I mean a lot of these new allied brands we've got a lot of runway left for distribution availability.
We've got parts of the country that we're still just rolling out into right now so we feel very good on that.
And then as you can see by the Nielsen numbers our core business just continues to improve.
We came in with Dr Pepper flat where we were down below and our diets are outperforming the industry.
So we feel very bullish.
And what about Peafiel in Mexico? What inning are you there versus having kind of full distribution? Well I think we've pretty well got the distribution levels in Mexico where they need to be.
We're seeing a lot of competition come out after us right now because of the tremendous amount of success there.
We're not real concerned about it because we also know that our Peafiel is a true mineral water and what we're seeing is some minerals-added and different things.
So it's making our guys be on their game but they're pretty good fighters down there.
Okay.
And then maybe Marty just a few cleanups if I could.
On the CapEx guidance the Q4 investments that you called out on the packaging line additions just how significant will they be? Should we read that 3% of sales guidance as a solid 3% or is it closer to like 2.5%? No Steve.
This year I would say bring it up closer to 3%.
And some of these investments I talked about particularly the line investments for both Mexico and the U.S.
there will be expenditures next year for those as well.
So you should plan around the $170 million level roughly 3%.
That's where we're heading.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just on taxes the 35.5% expectation is for the full year.
Are there specific reasons why you think Q4 will come in higher than where you've been running year-to-date? No nothing specific in there.
Okay.
Thank you.
It's our normalized rate.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from the line of Vivien Azer with Cowen.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So I was curious if you could comment a little bit more on some of the incremental funding behind fountain that you referenced during the prepared remarks please? Yeah.
Vivien it's Marty.
So we made funding payments to fountain customers for various reasons.
Sometimes it's simply based on volume.
Sometimes it's based on marketing programs that's a big part of it.
Sometimes it's reimbursement for equipment.
We took an adjustment in the third quarter.
We trued up some funding payments truthfully.
Probably $6 million or $7 million in round numbers probably hit the third quarter that truthfully we probably should have taken up in the first two quarters of the year.
Terrific.
That's great.
I leave it at one question.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from the line of Caroline Levy with CLSA.
Thank you so much.
Good morning.
Just wondering on that true-up where that would have been in the income statement? Did it affect price mix in the Beverage Concentrates? Well it's a net revenue adjustment.
So yeah it reduced revenues.
That's why we called it out as a special (23:50)...
And would it explain the price mix being down in the third quarter in concentrates? Sure.
Of course.
As I said just take $6 million or $7 million back to the revenue line.
That's exactly where it sits.
Okay.
And it's not going to continue into the next quarter by the sounds of things? Nope.
No.
Great.
I'm intrigued by Bai.
I'm drinking one as we speak actually and I'm just wondering if you can share with us what the plans are and economically how you benefit.
When you give us volume numbers in Packaged Beverages does it include all of the Bai volume? Exactly how does it flow through your income statement? It flows through the Packaged Beverages.
It goes through Rogers DSD business.
And it's a  I'm glad you're drinking one there because it's a great product.
And the way it works for us I mean we're basically a distribution arm.
They're using our distribution muscle and we take the product out and we make a margin on it and we're very pleased with it.
Is it  definitively it's margin negative in terms of the mix though? If your volume  When you report volume up 2% in Packaged Beverages for the quarter does that include the allied brands volume? Yes Caroline.
It's Marty.
So as we've said so we sell this product.
We do not manufacture the product.
So we buy the product as finished goods and that's why they at the gross margin line tend to carry lower gross margin because they have somebody else's manufacturing profit in there.
But at the operating line they're pretty good contributors to our operating profitability.
That's great.
And if you look at the portfolio of your investments what do you think the biggest opportunities are? And then while you're at that if you don't mind the last thing just commenting on the Peafiel.
My understanding is you brought some version of that into United States as well.
That's correct.
So Caroline let me talk about the allied brands because they are becoming an important part.
We've said this to a lot of people.
We look to these kinds of companies to actually contribute very much so to our innovation.
We sort of take the view that probably the next level of breakthrough innovation may not come from inside the company but it will come from passionate entrepreneurs who see the opportunities as we all see them in terms of where the consumer is going but can have an environment that can nurture and breed these kinds of brands from really nothing into something over time.
Of course they need a distribution partner and that's where we come in.
Our distribution system is an enormously important asset.
We choose these partners very carefully not just about the brand or what we like about the product but the strategy the management their financial ability to actually perform as the brand owner and to market the brands and actually to have  to sell in the brands at say national account levels to get the authorization so we can go in and stock the stores and put up the displays and do all we do.
It's a very important partnership.
We select them carefully.
And it is making a difference.
It's our way of saying in our effort to try to go to where the consumer is going not resist go where the consumer is going; we look to partner with organizations like this.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Bill.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey what percentage of your bottle can volume in the U.S.
is in the small cans? And what do you think that could become over the next two or three years? If you're defining small cans like 8 ounce 8.5 ounce it's really small today.
It's going to grow.
I mean we all see it.
We know that's where the consumer is going.
That's why some of this capital I just mentioned is going into that capability.
But we anticipate it's going to be a pretty good growth package.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay gotcha.
You don't want to commit to what the percentage is now? It's small.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay gotcha.
Hey and then I know this is a little bit of a longer term question but is there anything you could do with distribution and bottling assets like how Coke kind of does the refranchising? So have you thought about maybe parting ways with some of them as the whole landscape changes? No really we haven't Bill.
We're very pleased with how our system and our route to markets work.
We've mentioned before we've had some tail markets that we've given over to some beer distributors but we look at it constantly.
But at the time right now we're very pleased with how our distribution is laid out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
I guess just one last one.
Was there a big delta in growth between the C-stores and the other channels in the quarter because I think a lot of other people were talking about it and I know the Nielsen data for the C-store stuff doesn't pick up the broader universe maybe like it should.
Not a big difference.
But you're right.
One of our sweet spots is the local C-store business and you're right much of that is not picked up in Nielsen.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Judy Hong with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So I guess a couple of follow-up questions.
So just in terms of when you think about your sales volume guidance now being up a little bit better than what you've been forecasting year-to-date it seems like a lot of that is the positive trend that you're seeing in some of the distribution gains and in allied brands and Peafiel and so forth.
So if you can just help us understand where do you think the upside was in terms of your sales volume guidance? And then I guess when you take a step back and look at the industry as a whole it seems like you've seen an improvement across a lot of these non-carb categories whether it's bottled water or ready-to-drink tea.
So maybe just in terms of what you think is really driving more of the broad-based category growth improvement in the last six months or so? I think the biggest one you've got to look at Judy is the Dr Pepper.
I mean we've got the Dr Pepper back up to flat.
We've got our Diet Dr Pepper that is outperforming the category.
We're having closing distribution and availability voids out there.
We've got great allied partners.
So it's a combination of several different factors in there that are all hitting perfect for us right now.
Judy it's Marty.
Let me add I think with respect to our thoughts on sales guidance and particularly the CSD component where we said even at sort of break-even volume we're still better than category trends.
And by the way to-date we have done better than that.
We look at the key elements of that portfolio.
Steve mentioned a few of the brands.
When you think about  Dr Pepper is unique and Dr Pepper is really responding really well to our marketing campaign and it's outperforming the category.
Peafiel is in a really good place as a mineral water.
Mexico being up 8%.
A big driver was Peafiel.
And I'll tell you that two-thirds of that growth is velocity and not distribution.
So it's moving off the shelf.
That's really a strong sign for the brand and we've not nearly penetrated that opportunity anywhere at all.
We're scratching the surface in the U.S.
on that brand.
And then of course you move to ginger ale hot categories sparkling waters.
We've got the two strongest brands there in Canada Dry and Schweppes.
So we haven't said this in a long time but back to the old flavor versus cola sort of debate or view is let's not forget we've always thought we had an advantaged portfolio.
I think at least for now and for the foreseeable future it's positioned us well.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
On the marketing spend guidance Marty 7.6% of net sales I know it hasn't changed year-to-date.
But in terms of looking at some of the activities that's worked versus maybe some of the activities that may not be getting the returns that you'd expected are there any major changes that you're making or is this sort of similar to kind of what we've been seeing from your perspective? Well okay.
I'll give you a few counts.
First of all yeah 7.6% of total sales.
I'll remind you though that as allied brands become a bigger part of our sales they're not huge today but they are a huge part of the growth we don't market those.
Those brand owners market those.
So if we looked at a percent to our own brand sales it probably would be about 8%.
But I just want to remind people that as we go forward that all the marketing doesn't come out of our marketing spending.
With respect to marketing vehicles I think was the second part of your question and our MROI activities not going into a lot of detail.
If I were to go down a list of the types of things that we focus on and we talked about some of these as we try to get more and more effective.
Length of time of our TV spots what works better prime versus cable channels where does radio and out-of-home and really local marketing fit into our brands and it fits different across our brands.
Social media.
What's a better platform Twitter or Facebook? Paid search.
What terms work the best for us for paid search or not? I mean that's just off the top of my head list of things that I know we review when we go through this all in an effort to take money away from things that are not working.
We really focus on that.
Our marketing budget is staying relatively flat as a percent of sales we think is working for us.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj with Bernstein.
Hey guys.
Wanted to dig a little bit more in Packaged Beverages.
So clearly the 6% was strong.
We're all focused on that.
Can you disaggregate that in terms of how much of that 6% was from the suite of allied brands in particular? And you mentioned 15% (34:28) volume there.
Of the rest of it how much was rate versus how much was just mix i.e.
the product was higher priced? Well Ali I'll give you the pricing.
The price realization is probably about a point.
So everything else was mix on that price/mix factor.
Okay.
But the allied brands they're small.
They're a reasonable factor on growth.
They're not the largest factor though.
They're really not the largest factor.
We've not quoted specifically the size of those brands or what they constitute to us in total but they're an important factor but they're not the largest factor.
But you said a second ago that they're a large part of the growth.
So like...
Yeah.
The Peafiel  but they're nowhere near what a Peafiel contributes what a Canada Dry contributes what Peafiel contributes I mean relative to those.
Yeah.
Because it's a small base basically you're saying? Small yes.
Right.
Okay.
So then from a long-term perspective as these things grow I guess what can Bai or another one of these allied brand get from your DSD that it can't get from other distributors like a Coke or Pepsi system? And how much ownership do you have of some of these brands so that it protects you from losses like you've had in the past of allied brands going to other distribution systems? Well I think the biggest one right there is going into the Coke or Pepsi system you don't really ever see any go in if they don't buy.
Right.
And a lot of these young entrepreneurs aren't really ready to sell their business and they want to see them build.
They look at it  it would be better to hear it from them but they think it's a homerun when they get into our system because we've got guys that are pretty scrappy out there on the street.
We're used to working with a lot of smaller brands and how to fight for space and where to merchandise it.
So the only other option is really to go through some beer distributors which become very disjointed and dysfunctional while trying to do a national program.
They can go with us and we can hit a Target a Kroger or Walmart and pretty well have guaranteed distribution across the country.
So I think that's the big difference for us.
So you position yourself more incubation with some ownership.
Ownership.
Distribution muscle is the big piece so distribution doesn't come free.
Okay.
So early stage.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Bill Marshall with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
I just want to add  building off of the distribution comments from earlier obviously you have exposure from distribution perspective to both the red blue system and your own system as well.
As we see these divergent paths being taken with Coke going pretty aggressively down the refranchising road I'm just curious if you've seen any deviation in how your business has performed in those different channels recently? No we really haven't.
You've got to remember on the Coke system where they're going back and refranchising those are our bottlers that we've worked with for a long time.
So it's just been a nice smooth transition.
They're great bottlers and we're pleased with the moves they've made.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then just one follow-up.
We've talked a lot about some of these non-carb brands that have been doing very well  Peafiel  but how about on Clamato? It seems like that brand is doing extremely well.
I wonder if you could parse out how it's doing both in North America versus Mexico and what sort of opportunity you see on that brand.
I believe it's a very profitable brand if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah and it's hitting in Canada.
It's a strong brand in Canada strong brand in North America and strong brand in Mexico.
So our businesses are about  I'm going to say probably looking at a third a third a third if you go across Canada U.S.
and Mexico.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Grundy with Jefferies.
Hey.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Kevin.
So Larry my question is on CSD pricing and the runway for it.
So Coke made an interesting point I thought yesterday on the conference call that they saw less opportunity to take pricing in their (38:54) business in Europe over time relative to the U.S.
given the starting price point there.
So setting aside the price rationality question because it seems like the big players in the industry are certainly committed to it including you guys the question is given the high availability of substitutes how do you think about price gaps and the availability to take pricing over time? When do you potentially start pushing price gaps to levels where you'd be concerned that consumers begin to leave the category at a faster rate? Yeah.
I mean we look at costs.
Like I've said before we take pricing opportunistically and a lot of that is on different regions and everything like that.
But we look at the majority of this on having package innovation different packaging  Marty talked about the cans we're coming out with making sure that we have the choices and options out there for the consumer.
Pricing has been great.
Marty and I've been in the market pretty heavy the last couple of weeks.
We're seeing great  our customers are telling us the consumer is feeling good.
We're seeing some  you've seen the Nielsen numbers.
We've got some improvement.
Our numbers are coming up.
So I think pricing is great.
We'll take pricing where we can but we don't build a lot of our plan on putting pricing in.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then Marty on commodities: I'm not sure if you can comment at all looking out to next year but if commodities stay where they are now taking a look at aluminum and oil and so forth and spot rates hold and your guess is as good as mine what happens there.
It seems like you'd have some favorability looking out to next year.
Can you comment on your commodity outlook at this point? We'll reserve comments until we give specific guidance in February.
But I'll now remind you we do hedge.
So we've locked in some prices already for next year.
But I'll give you more commentary in February.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Ottenstein with Evercore ISI.
Great.
Great.
Two questions.
One  look another terrific quarter.
Congratulations.
What do you guys worry about at this point just kind of looking at the business over the next one to two years? And then just second maybe a little bit of color in terms of what is not actually working at 7UP? Well I can't think of too many things I worry about.
I think the biggest thing we watch is just making sure that  I want to make sure that we constantly understand the consumer.
If I can understand that consumer and can have the packages and the products at the place they want them at the occasion and the time I don't think you could have anything  a better plan or situation than that.
Then the second half of the question I'll let Marty handle.
The brand 7UP was the second part.
Look it's been a challenge.
Don't forget in the Core 4 you have seen this in the past with us we manage that somewhat as a portfolio.
Remember a few years ago we went after Sun Drop and it took the lead and we had to make some trade-offs and Canada Dry is part of that.
I'm not suggesting Canada Dry is cannibalizing 7UP but look it is still a portfolio.
No question 7UP is opportunity.
I mean we see that all as opportunity.
It's not performed where we wanted it to.
It's not performed to the level relative to the investment we put behind it but that's what we've got to figure out.
But I would (42:36) point out that in the carb portfolio that's our biggest challenge right now.
It's our biggest challenge.
Terrific.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Mark.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Firstly on  when I see these Peafiel numbers the Squirt number could you just speak broadly about how your portfolio pairs up versus Hispanics and their influence on culture here in North America? You seem to be very well positioned in relatively early innings of exploiting that opportunity.
It reminds me of your comment a moment ago about colas versus flavors but could you elaborate on that? Yeah.
If you look at our  especially for the U.S.
I mean a lot of our Squirt and Peafiel volume that we report is down in Mexico.
But if you look at what we do up here with Hispanic markets we over-index and we've got the Clamato the Squirt we're bringing the Peafiel into our Hispanic markets.
And we've found through our deep studies of our strategy on Hispanic is we got to be in the right channels and where to market.
It's not like going into a normal Kroger or supermarket and shopping just in the beverage aisle.
You've got to know where to have those products and a lot of times you may be stacking them over by 25-pound bags of beans and rice and things like it.
Again I go back to what I said a while ago.
If we understand our consumer and what our consumer wants and where they're shopping that's how we can go in and over-index on these brands.
And you're exactly right flavors I mean they love flavors.
Squirt Peafiel Clamato it just gives us a tremendous opportunity and advantage in Hispanic markets in North America.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And building on that this allied emphasis increasing is that the focus to the extent you see white space or do you think you're still interested in acquisitions that are suited to where you're not addressing a consumer need? Well Mark it's Marty.
So let me close out on the Hispanic question.
Our brands which we think we've got a great portfolio.
And look we haven't done the best job.
We've had a Hispanic strategy.
We're going to do a much better job in terms of that channel and understanding what we need to do with our portfolio.
We've been doing some things but I think we'd all admit there's more runway for opportunity for us.
In terms of the allied brands I think all we are trying to communicate and have communicated recently to various people is Larry said it we focused on understanding the consumer.
We spent a lot of time this year interviewing some 35 000 consumers on their last beverage occasion and what drove them emotionally and functionally so we can try to understand where all of our brands play.
And there's white space on what we call that demand map and that white space can be filled and much of it might more likely will be filled maybe by us partnering with other people than trying to invent a new brand.
Hard to nurture that inside a larger company.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And so far that's worked for us.
We're not unwilling to do that.
But we've got to make our choices very carefully.
We can't do everything.
So choice and priority becomes really important.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
And then if I could it's kind of more  I suppose it's more technical but Snapple is having a very good year mid-single digits high-single digits growth.
Larry Marty is that kind of growth sustainable? In the past we've seen it drop down to low-single digits and have a year like we're having this year.
Is that a sustainable number and if it's not how do you think about alternatives to kind of fill that? Any weakness we might see from here in terms of other non-carbs picking up the slack so to speak if Snapple is not able to sustain this kind of growth? Well we think it's sustainable we truly do.
I mean it's going to be a combination of our innovation plus our strategy with our Straight Up Teas that will play much stronger in the Midwest from kind of out of the Snapple heartland.
Our Straight Up Teas have basically just been launched.
I mean there's a lot of opportunity there.
We'll continue the innovation that we have with like just this fall we're coming out with our fall Snapple with the spice and everything.
And it's being very well received.
So we feel it's very very sustainable.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Your final question this morning comes from John Faucher with JPMorgan.
Hi guys.
Hi John.
Just want to follow up  you talked a little bit about the diet portfolio performing better and then Marty you talked about all this consumer work you're doing.
Have you been able to figure out what it is about Pepper from a diet standpoint that keeps it so separate from colas? I assume it's just the more loyal consumer base et cetera.
Is there any specific learning you have about that in terms of whether or not people feel differently about aspartame in Diet Dr Pepper versus maybe what's going on with Diet Coke or Diet Pepsi.
We started marketing our Diet Dr Pepper.
We didn't just sit back.
I mean we went out with the little sweet and come out with a great taste.
We just wanted to get the message back out there.
If you want something sweet and something with great taste.
And when we did our return on market investment it's one of the greatest returns that we've seen by going out there and getting that message back out to the people.
In the past we were kind of doing the trademark.
We were kind of letting an umbrella fall over everything.
And so we just turned it around and went direct after the diet and it's paid off for us very well John.
Excellent.
Thank you.
I'd now like to turn the conference back over to Larry Young for any additional or closing remarks.
Okay.
Well thank you very much for joining the call today and for your continued interest and investment in Dr Pepper Snapple Group.
Goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Dr Pepper Snapple Group's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Today's call is being recorded and includes a slide presentation which can be accessed at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The call and slides will also be available for replay and download after the call has ended.
[Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to introduce Carolyn Ross Vice President Investor Relations.
Carolyn you may begin.
Thank you Brandi and good morning everyone.
Before we begin I would like to direct your attention to the Safe Harbor statement and remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements including statements concerning our future financial and operational performance.
These forward-looking statements should also be considered in connection with cautionary statements and disclaimers contained in the Safe Harbor statement in this morning's earnings press release and our SEC filings.
Our actual performance could differ materially from these statements and we undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.
During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures that reflect the way we evaluate the business and which we believe provide useful information for investors.
Reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to GAAP can be found in our earnings press release and on the Investors page at www.drpeppersnapple.com.
This morning's prepared remarks will be made by Larry Young Dr Pepper Snapple Group's President and CEO; and Marty Ellen our CFO.
Following our prepared remarks we will open the call for your questions.
With that let me turn the call over to Larry.
Thanks Carolyn.
Good morning everyone.
Its no secret that 2013 was a challenging year.
We're up against the toughest CSD category head winds I've seen in my career.
And yet our teams remained focused on delivering against our strategy.
And I am proud of what we were able to accomplish.
First we launched our Core 4 and RC TEN platform nationally providing regular CSD consumers with an option to enjoy the taste and now feel of a regular CSD but with only 10 calories per 12 ounce can.
We launched Snapple regular Half 'n Half Lemonade Iced Tea on the heels of our successful Diet Half 'n Half launch in 2012.
We brought Hawaiian Punch to the morning occasions with Aloha Morning giving moms and kids something to get excited about.
The same grade Hawaiian Punch tastes with 40% less sugar.
And we continue to expand our reach into the segments leveraging our allied brands.
In the coconut water category we grew Vita Coco volume 37%.
We continue to connect and engage with our consumers through innovative and powerful marketing programs including our well known and loved Dr Pepper College Football Tuition program and with our strong brand equity scores we know these programs resonate with our consumers.
From an execution standpoint we continue to gain distribution and availability of our key brands across key packages with Snapple increasing 3 points in grocery and almost 2 points in convenient and gas and Motts increasing over 3 points in grocery.
And our CSDs gained space and convenient gas despite the category headwinds.
We gained over 43 000 new fountain valves providing thousands of additional sampling opportunities and brand impressions for the Dr.
Pepper trademark.
RCI continues to be the foundation on which the organization operates gaining more and more momentum every year.
Im pleased to say that after three years we exceeded our initial financial target with $169 million in annualized cash productivity.
But as youve heard us say RCI never is.
It is simply the way we do business.
We returned all of our free cash flow to our shareholders totalling $702 million in 2013.
And as further commitment to our shareholders last week we announced an increase to our quarterly dividend of 7.9%.
Moving onto results for the quarter bottler case sales declined 2% on 3 points of positive price and mix.
Dr.
Pepper declined 1% and our Core 4 brands declined 4% as we continued to face strong category headwinds.
Hawaiian Punch declined 8% while Snapple grew 3%.
Motts and all other brands were flat.
For the year bottler case sales declined 2% on 3 points of price and mix.
Our flagship Dr.
Pepper declined 2% for the year and our Core 4 brands which include our TEN products declined 1% both outperforming the overall CSD category.
Hawaiian Punch declined 9% on lower promotional activity and overall weakness in the juice drink category.
Snapple grew 2% for the year and Motts grew 3% as we continued to close distribution gaps across both juice and sauce.
All other brands declined 1% for the year.
On a currency neutral basis net sales declined 1% in the quarter.
Core operating income increased $30 million or 10% and core EPS increased 18%.
For the year currency neutral net sales were flat.
Core income from operations increased $40 million or 4% and core EPS increased $0.28 per share or 10%.
Our TEN products are important and strategic priority for us and we will continue to invest behind them in 2014.
We believe this is one of the important components of innovation in CSDs to bring regular consumers who either left the category or cut back on the consumption back to the category and to the brands that they know and love.
Our first year results were encouraging.
Our recent Nielsen Homescan Study shows that 52% of TENs purchases are incremental to the CSD category proving that were bringing back lapsed consumer occasions.
The repeat rates on the platform were strong nearly three times higher than trial rates telling us that once the consumer tries the product they will come back for more.
Based on these learnings we will focus our 2014 efforts on consumer education and awareness to drive trial of products and our new media campaign does just that.
We have teamed up with Chelsea Handler for our anti-solution campaign telling consumers to not give up what they love and drink TEN.
Chelsea has been featured on packaging in-store displays merchandizing and our digital campaign.
Well continue to drive sampling with the National FSI and other valuable offers.
Now let me spend a few moments talking about our 2014 priorities and plans.
Our fundamental strategy hasnt changed.
We will continue to build our brands and execute with excellence in the marketplace all underpinned by the principles of RCI.
Ive just said we are committed to the TEN platform and well continue to drive it in 2014.
Were launching some exciting new innovation on several of our key brands ensuring that were providing consumers with options to support a balanced lifestyle.
And our sweetener development has successfully progressed to the point of enabling us to test all naturally sweetened 60-calorie versions of some of our brands in 2014.
And as we continue to develop and execute consumer programming were sharpening our marketing return on investment capabilities ensuring we optimize every dollar we spend and actively shifting dollars from low-return vehicles into higher-return vehicles.
Execution is key in this business and well continue to strive for excellence through our third party bottling partners and our own DSD gaining incremental displays and points of interruption while ensuring that we always have the right product in the right package at the right price in every channel.
Living [ph] with the Hispanic consumer is critical.
With our strong flavor portfolio and our dedicated Hispanic sales and marketing team that are focused not only on national programs but also on local activation and programming in strategic markets we are poised to win.
From an RCI standpoint goal deployment is in place across the organization ensuring alignment and focus on our key initiatives.
Were also investing on our strong performing leaders training them to become stewards of RCI throughout the business.
Macklemore and Ryan Lewis and recording artist Romeo Santos.
7Up is teaming up with Project 7 an organization that makes and sells everyday items and whose sales helped fund seven areas of need around the world.
Millennial consumers can make every bottle count by redeeming under the cap quotes on 20-ounce bottles to choose which area need receives the benefit.
And 7Up isnt stopping there.
Were also teaming up with 7 Electronic Dance Music DJs to make the brands anonymous with EDM culture.
Well have a new media campaign with onsite activation and sampling at key festivals in the strategic markets.
Were leveraging two of our largest trademarks Moms and kids will love the new Motts juice drink line and 3-fold flavors like Wild Grape Surge.
The line is made with real fruit juice has 40% less sugar and no artificial sweeteners.
And were adding new consumer preferred flavors to our successful line of Snack &amp; Go Applesauce Pouches.
Snapple Apple is one of the brands most popular single serve flavors.
And this year well expand into a take-home packaging.
Well also add new flavors to the current 64-ounce take-home package.
Consumers have told us they want a less sweet tea.
So were testing Snapple Straight Up Tea across several markets.
Straight Up Tea has a true tea taste and is made from all natural black tea with a touch of real sugar and only 40 calories per serving.
And well continue to leverage our allied brands Im confident these programs in place we can drive the business in 2014.
Now let me turn the call over to Marty to walk you through some of the financial results and our 2014 guidance.
Thanks Larry and good morning everyone.
For the fourth quarter reported net sales declined 1% in line with our previous guidance resulting in net sales that were flat for the full year.
Sales volume declines of about 3.5% in the quarter and an unfavorable trade comparison to the prior year were partially offset by almost 2 points of package and product mix and just over 1 point of pricing.
Reported gross margins were up 100 basis points in the quarter increasing from 59.2% last year to 60.2% this year.
Price mix increased gross margin by approximately 80 basis points but was offset by lower volumes and an unfavorable trade comparison to the prior year.
Based on our year-end inventory balances which included a higher volume of apples but at significantly lower prices than last year we recorded a $14 million LIFO inventory benefit in the quarter.
This compares to an $11 million LIFO inventory charge in the prior year improving year-over-year gross margin comparison by 170 basis points.
This simply means that with respect to apples we benefited this year by lapping the higher cost for apples a year ago as apple prices are now at normal historical prices.
Changes in certain commodity prices at the end of the quarter caused us to record a $3 million unrealized mark-to-market loss on commodity hedges with approximately $4 million recorded in cost of goods offset by $1 million gain reported in SG&amp;A.
This compares to a $1 million unrealized mark-to-market loss a year ago which was all recorded in SG&amp;A.
The net effect of these items reduced reported gross margins by approximately 30 basis points.
Higher input costs primarily PET and packaging materials combined with certain higher manufacturing costs reduced year-over-year gross margins by 80 basis points.
However solid RCI productivity improvements enabled us to offset about 40 basis points of this decline.
SG&amp;A for the quarter excluding depreciation decreased by $28 million.
The unrealized mark-to-market comparison I just mentioned reduced SG&amp;A by $2 million.
And as we highlighted on our third quarter call marketing spend declined as expected by $9 million due to this years phasing resulting in four-year marketing spend of $5 million or a little over 1%.
We also benefited from lower people related costs including favorable health and wellness cost trends.
As you saw in our earnings press release in the quarter we recorded a $56 million non-cash charge related to our intent to withdraw from a multi-employer pension plan.
This was excluded from core earnings.
The paydown of this liability is expected to occur over approximately 36 years at the annual amount similar with the existing funding for this plan.
Depreciation and amortization expense was flat in the quarter at $29 million.
Reported operating income for the quarter was $264 million compared to $292 million last year.
Core operating income of $323 million as shown in the reconciliation tables in the press release was up 10% from $293 million of the prior year with the core operating margin of 240 basis points to 22.1%.
For the full year core operating income of $1.123 billion representing 18.7% of sales was up almost 4% from last years $1.083 billion which represented 18.1% of sales.
Below the operating line net interest expense for the quarter was $28 million $2 million below last year.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 34.2% and our core income tax rate was 34.8%.
This brings our full year core income tax rate to 35.3%.
Moving onto cash flow.
For the year cash from operating activities was $866 million and capital spending continued to decline to $179 million.
This brings full year reported free cash flow to $687 million or 105% of 2013 core net income of $655 million.
For the year total distributions to our shareholders were $702 million with $400 million of share repurchases and $302 million in dividends.
Our actual year end outstanding shares have declined below 200 million or 198 million to be more precise.
Since the 2010 inception of our share repurchase program we have repurchased about 62.5 million shares at an average price of $38.86.
And as Larry mentioned we remain very committed to returning excess cash to our shareholders over time as we further demonstrated last week with our announcement of a 7.9% increase to our quarterly dividend.
Now moving onto 2014 full year guidance.
As we enter the year the CSD category continues to face significant headwinds with ongoing consumer health and wellness concerns particularly around artificial sweeteners as well as sugar content and we expect this trend to continue in the near term.
We will remain focus on driving our important innovation platforms including further advances in our sweetener capabilities to build our brands by providing consumers with a variety of great tasting products to support their balanced lifestyles drive execution excellence in the marketplace and continue to develop broad organizational RCI capabilities which we expect will deliver further financial improvements.
Based on the plans we now have in place we believe our 2014 net sales will be flat to up approximately 1%.
With 80% of our volume facing CSD category headwinds and the impact of the one peso per liter sugar tax on our business in Mexico total company sales volume is expected to decline over 1 point with growth in our non-carb portfolio and allied brands partially offsetting this decline.
On a total company basis we expect combined price and mix to be up just over 2%.
We have raised prices in Mexico as a result of the sugar tax and expect this will contribute approximately 65 basis points of this positive pricing impact.
Our January 1 concentrate price increase will drive another 40 basis points of growth and the remainder will be mix from growth in our higher priced non-carb and allied brands.
Moving onto cost of goods sold.
Considering our hedged positions and current market prices for our unhedged positions we expect packaging and ingredients deflation primarily from lower sweetener and apple costs.
This is expected to reduce total cost of goods inclusive of LIFO by approximately 1.5% on a constant volume mix basis.
Separately the impact of the Mexico sugar tax which is levied based on manufactured volume will increase total cost of goods by approximately 2%.
For modelling purposes remember that growth from our non-carb portfolio will also increase cost of goods dollars.
We currently believe that the net effect of all these factors should result in 2014 gross margins consistent with those achieved in 2013.
Were seeing some upward pressure on transportation cost which is expected to add approximately $17 million to our cost base in 2014.
Were expecting an increase of approximately 10% or $12 million in health and welfare costs due to medical cost inflation and fees we will pay under the Affordable Care Act.
General inflation in our field labor costs will also increase total people related costs by approximately 2% or about $20 million.
RCI productivity benefits will help offset a portion of these increases.
Were continuing to enhance our marketing return on investment capability and were working harder than ever to ensure that were getting the best return we can.
Were shifting marketing dollars across media platforms from traditional to digital and focusing more programs and tie-ins retail activation.
In addition spending across our TEN platform will continue to be approximately $30 million.
As a result we expect marketing spend to be approximately 7.5% of net sales in 2014.
Though this is lower than our marketing spend rate in 2013 it is still a very healthy investment level for the business.
Now moving below segment operating profit.
Our net interest expense will be around 4.4% on our $2.5 billion of debt and our full year core tax rate is expected to be at approximately 35.5%.
We expect capital spending to be approximately 3% of net sales and we expect to repurchase approximately $375 million to $400 million of our common stock in 2014 subject to market conditions.
Considering all of these items we expect full year core earnings per share to be in the $3.38 to $3.46 range.
Before I turn the call back over to Larry let me highlight a couple of phasing items that will help you update your models.
First the packaging and ingredients deflation will be skewed towards the first three quarters of the year.
Second the transportation cost increases will be spread fairly evenly across the year.
Third people cost inflation including the health and wellness increases will be more pronounced in the third and fourth quarters.
And finally remember that we are no longer recording other income associated with our former tax indemnity agreement with Mondelez.
So you will need to remove these from your models.
With that let me turn the call back over to Larry.
Thanks Marty.
Before we open the lines for questions let me leave you with these thoughts.
We continued to execute our strategy in a very challenging environment ensuring that we build our brands while executing with excellence in the marketplace.
We have been and will continue to launch new innovations that offers consumers options to help them lead balanced lifestyles.
We remain focused on managing the business prudently for the long term as reflected in our full year results.
Well continue to invest in our brands and our people while ensuring we optimize every dollar we spend.
RCI is the foundation of our business and it will continue to drive improvements and provide financial flexibility.
And finally we remain committed to returning excess free cash to our shareholders over time.
Operator we are ready for our first question.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question is coming from John Faucher from JP Morgan.
Thanks.
One quick question sort of a housekeeping question which is on sort of where corporate came in for the quarter.
You have the segment operating profit numbers but Im assuming we have to make some adjustments for the pension charge.
So that will be the first question.
And then secondly can you talk about sort of the underlying pricing dynamic in the North American CSD category? Cott just actually talked about it may be getting a little bit better in the first half of the year but what are you expecting and building in as we get closer to the summer selling season? Thanks.
John good morning its Marty.
Let me take care of the housekeeping on the numbers.
The $56 million non-cash pension charge in the segment table is actually included in packaged beverages not in corporate.
Great thank you.
And John in pricing we think the pricing for the year is going to be still reasonable.
We saw a little activity towards the end of the year for the holidays but so far this year its looking good.
I think everybody would be looking at what we can do bond market opportunistically but were not planning a lot of pricing on our plan and we think where the prices are at now we can do quite well with that.
Right.
Your next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Bryan.
Just a couple of questions regarding the outlook.
I think and Marty just want to make sure Im understanding youre building a bridge for operating income for 14.
Just kind of backing into some of the other items youve given in terms of the guidance operating income will be up somewhere in the 5 or 6% range.
And with revenues flat to plus 1 gross margins flat it means the SG&amp;A leverage is going to drive I guess about 4 points of that.
And so as we look at that SG&amp;A leverage how much of it is just the marketing expense coming down and how much of it is mix or RCI? Im just trying to get a better understanding of kind of what the drivers are of that and like how visible that is how variable that might be.
Okay.
I think yeah Bryan I think you have it.
As weve guided flat to up 1 on the top line constant gross margins as a result of sort of the pluses and minuses that I went through in my script.
Were really pleased with our SG&amp;A productivity.
This year we measured about $16 million in year-over-year operating income improvement as a result of RCI initiatives and were expecting as I said in my remarks notwithstanding some of the inflationary items whether they be healthcare whether they be transportation costs were going to beat back a big chunk of those with planned RCI improvement.
Okay.
So SG&amp;A is going to be a big contributor.
As I said in my remarks were going to spend 7.5% of net sales on marketing a little lower than this year but if you look back historically sort of in the range where weve been and Ill repeat what Ive said to many of you as Ive travelled that our learnings from our MROI developing capabilities is giving us some insight into where the  where we should money and where we shouldnt spend money.
And were really comfortable with that.
Were funding as Larry said all of the important initiatives next year including our rolling out some test products that we think will be squarely within the crosshairs what consumers are going to be looking at for naturally sweet and beverages and reduced calories and thats where we settled on the marketing budget for next year.
Okay thanks for that clarity.
And just Larry maybe if you could just give us maybe a first impression any first impression that youve seen in terms of how consumers have responded in Mexico to the higher prices and how the market has  or how the industry has sort of dealt with it.
If you could give any color at all in terms of how thats gone so far thatd be helpful.
Not really Bryan its still so early with it just coming out and a lot of its got some carryover and its just not completely across the market.
Were seeing it there is an impact but the size of it Id be afraid to even try and dimentionalize that right now.
Do you sense that consumers might have bought ahead of the increase like there was any sort of pantry loading ? We didnt notice it in December.
Okay.
Our clients stayed pretty steady through December.
Okay thank you.
Youre welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Judy.
So its really admirable that youre doing really well on the costs side and done  and growing profit in the context of a challenged volume situation.
I guess my question is just really thinking about the industry and your business over time what can we really look forward to get volume growth again? And I guess in the context of the marketing spending coming down and I hear you really want to find the right opportunity to spend money but just really want to understand how youre thinking about the growth opportunity for some of your core brands.
And I think the industry is challenged but just beyond that can you do more to really accelerate the top line growth? Well rest assured Judy we never stop looking at that.
As I said in my prepared remarks we expect the headwinds to continue in 14.
I love how the year started so far.
The weather has been so wonderful kind of ties right into the soft drink business.
But Im bullish on how weve started the year even with the weather.
We will never stop looking at ways to grow but we want to make sure that all that growth is profitable.
As I mentioned were going to be testing in select markets across the U.S.
here in not too long a time a 60 calorie natural sweetened CSD in some of our top brands and we feel good about that.
Also TEN were still getting new distribution of TEN.
We just got some new authorizations on the West Coast and so were still bullish on that and well continue to spend behind it.
As far as the marketing front were not concerned at all at where the dollars are coming in.
We dont really worry that much what the dollars are.
Its what we get in relevance and activation and were finding that weve got programs that are working better for us.
As Marty mentioned were going to continue to spend 30 million on TEN and we think we have every one of our brands where we can continue to build and grow them as we get down the road and get past some of these headwinds.
Okay.
And then Larry I just wanted to get your thoughts on the announcement between Coke and Green Mountain the partnership that theyve announced whether you think that that could potentially help the category bringing some excitement into the category.
Youve got a Snapple brand in the Keurig system.
Is there some opportunity to expand your brand offering with the likes of Green Mountain? And then just in terms of the potential on that could have on your bottlers? Well I think it was a great move for Coke and Green Mountain both news to the category is always good.
I think we all have a lot of work to do on how do we do this as partners with our bottlers.
Theyve got franchises out there that my job is to make sure that we protect their equity and that weve also got to look at it and make sure were doing the right things for the future on growth and we may have to do some things different.
So we look at all these things like with the K-Cup and now weve got Amazon coming out and Wal-Mart.com and there are changes to our industry.
Its a different way of going to market than weve had before and I think all of us in the industry are sitting down figuring out how do we do this the right way where its a win-win for everybody.
Okay thank you.
Youre welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Cooper of Consumer Edge.
Good morning guys.
A quick question in 13 you reached most of your pricing  by 3.5% or so.
It appears that you reduced it by another 150 basis points increased marketing by 5 million and it seems that retail prices for CSDs are up a fraction about three-tenths of percent.
And given that we on the outside dont have all the information it would be great to hear any insights you have on this relationship as it seems that 2014 is setting up for something similar.
Im just trying to get an understanding of how sustainable this is as a source of growth for you guys in the coming years.
Yeah its Marty.
Ill deal with some of that.
Im not sure I can connect all the dots there for you.
Im not sure I recognize all the numbers you have there either.
So Ill tell you our concentrate price increase is net of funding we paid bottlers in money that we put aside for our bottlers to fund products.
In 2013 it probably is at 2% but we may have been netted a little less and thats going to be sort of where the number lands in 2014.
And I would only tell you concentrate costs is a pretty small portion of the total package costs to our bottlers.
Okay.
I mean my understanding was your beverage concentrate business price mix was up 5 and so if you had 2% on the net right I mean is the other 3 points to reduce discounts? How do you get to  can you bride the 5 for me? I can  there is a factor in our beverage concentrate business this year that actually relates to our fountain business it has nothing to do with our bottle and can business.
We have increasingly and to our advantage are producing more fountain syrup in our system taking some of that away from some of our bottlers.
And the syrup price per case the revenue per case is higher than simply selling the concentrate to them to make the syrup.
So weve been shifting some more fountain business in house it raises the revenues its good  it also raises the transportation costs.
Now were shifting syrup but still good margins.
Its not a factor weve talked much about this year but its had a little bit of impact on the beverage concentrate numbers.
Okay thats great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC </strong> Hey guys how are you? Good.
LLC </strong> So I wanted to focus in on first just on the beverage concentrate margin it makes sense that the pension prepayment or withdrawal I guess is in there.
I want to understanding whether there would be thered be ongoing benefits.
And if you endeavor to strip that out for us can you talk a little bit about the RCI impact on that business unit in particular  sorry packaged beverages on that piece of the business in particular especially from the opportunity within the DSP system that you have? Its Marty Ill take it.
You mentioned beverage concentrate but you corrected the packaged beverages.
I want everybody to understand that on a reported basis the pension charge the 56 million on a segment basis is in packages beverages.
Of course weve taken it out on a core basis but we dont provide core reconciliations by segment.
So thats out and I just want to make sure everybody understands the pension liability.
As I said in my prepared remarks from a cash funding point of view which is whats really important here for us next 36 years well be making contributions to this plan more or less in line with what weve been paying so no impact there.
Okay in terms of packaged beverages you have to mount -- I mean RCI of course weve had probably biggest impact  in fact in beverages its had a big impact in Mexico as well.
And we made a lot of great progress in 2013 Ive talked before about lean practice in warehousing and delivery and selling.
And the better part of the roughly $16 million of year-over-year cost improvement weve had this year its been in  I quoted earlier  as describable to RCI has been in packet beverages so its helped them quite a bit.
LLC </strong> Thats helpful.
And so if you try to piece that together with the volume deleverage that youre getting is there any way to quantify really just that rate of volume deleverage that youre seeing given the volumes in that segment in particular and kind of how youre offsetting that with RCI in terms if you are just sort of comment to how much that you are offsetting? Ali here is what I would tell you about the economics of packet beverages as you think about it first and foremost in terms of declines in volume vis--vis which of course hits them in terms of cost absorption.
Where they are actually  and where we are actually making improvement besides just productivity through RCI is mix shift in our non-carb portfolio.
So whether youre talking about you know Bai the Coco [ph]  Larry mentioned 37% our recent announcements on product like Bai and Fruit2O and all of these allied brands as we call them that are becoming very important in our portfolio that have reasonably good growth prospects particularly in the near-term as we see it is actually helping packaged beverages quite a bit.
Dont forget too that the  one of their 800-pound guerilla product is Hawaiian Punch.
Now we talked a lot about Hawaiian Punch and the fact that it hurts their top line when volumes are down but does not have such a meaningful impact on the operating profit line.
So you see the volume decline you dont see it on the operating profit line.
Yes CSDs are down but we claw back with non-carb product by the way Motts  we shouldnt forget Motts did well this year both in sauce and in juice.
These products shift the margin up in PB reasonably importantly.
LLC </strong> Yeah.
Okay.
And then last question is what would core focus our CB in term of volume growth without can? And I guess how does that  what does that suggest about your still 3% to 5% long-term top line target that frankly Im not going to believe and I dont wonder how you guys do so too? So kind of two questions that one just the TEN and then one long-term.
Thanks.
Labels have been down.
I mean the core forward have been down greater but I think still above the industry.
Thats one of the reasons were staying so focused on is that we see that were bringing people back to the category that have less CSDs and then getting greater CSD occasions.
So yeah they would have been down more but I think still above what we would have seen in the category.
Ali its Marty.
Look I took the 3% to 5% off the table last year sometime clearly  because look the environment as everybody on this call knows is different today than it was three or four years ago.
We understand better whats happening with consumer on the health and wellness front.
Everybody sees how the CSD category has performed you know we talked last year a lot about particularly the big reductions in diets which was a relatively new factor versus two years ago and the consumer and whats happening to the consumers discretionary income you know whether its higher taxes whether it could be impact of food stamp reduction.
So the world has changed but we believe what were going to demonstrate is that even on lower volumes we can make more money.
LLC </strong> Look forward to a healthy and a strong result.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Amit Sharma of BMO Capital.
Hi good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Larry you talked about artificial sweet  but not artificial the natural sweetener soda and yet youre starting to bring it to the consumer.
Can you provide just a little bit more color in terms of whats the platform that youre using for that what kind of incremental marketing spend we are looking behind that product and what is the internal expectation? We are not going to give a whole lot because you know for competitive reasons but weve worked  our R&amp;D team has put together proprietary blend with Stevia and sugar that weve been very pleased with.
One thing that weve been working on a while but we will not sacrifice the taste of our brands.
And this will be a very limited test in certain markets that well go out and the biggest thing for this is to get the consumer insights.
Were working with some national retail partner so that we can both look at the data.
We hear what people are telling us they want natural but we want to see if they buy the natural and where should we put the natural so its going to be a test that were excited about but I want to emphasize it is a test for you know well decide later what type of rollout well do on it.
And the expectation is that this will stay but then Dr.
Pepper Bottling System will not go to your bottling partners? Well right now were just doing the test.
I mean its within our system and then we get the data points thats when we share with our bottlers.
And I think you know we have talked to some of them already theyre very excited about it.
Everyone is excited about finding something natural but we want tot be able to share the facts with them on what it does in these markets.
Got it.
And one more your private level competitor on the juice side indicated that they will probably spending a little bit more in the juice category and then you talk about apple sauce being you know one of the failing commodities is there expectation that you will also spend a little bit more to get volumes going in that segment? No were happy with what our volumes doing right now.
Weve got plans in place that we put together last year.
We will stay with those.
Weve also got innovation coming in with our new lineup of Motts fruit flavors.
Weve got more Motts pouches coming out with different flavors and so were very happy where were at in the category right now.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Schmitz with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</strong> Hey you know all the speak in your private level competitors calls I mean everyone has been sort of lamenting the capacity situation in the U.S.
so do you think there is room for a broader restructuring as you kind of look at your global manufacturing footprint and obviously to previous question you talked about you know the 3% to 5% no longer being realistic so is room incrementally for maybe a bigger broader restructuring on the cost of goods sold side? Well I guess Dr.
 look as industry volumes go down of course thats going to yield excess capacity and everybody is going to have to decide how they want to deal with that.
Some of our RCI is getting after us but its going to be an industry issue for everybody depending upon what theyre making in those plants.
Obviously we see the Nielson data were not really in the private label business in any degree and obviously those volumes have taken a much much greater hit than branded volumes so of course its going to put pressure on manufacturing capacity and what to do with that capacity.
[Multiple Speakers] So theres a trend in business in manufacturing too which is you can look at your footprint of manufacturing plants on the one hand decide whether you need them all or not but on the other hand you have to deal with transportation you still got to get the product to the customer and fuel prices today are a lot higher they were than 30 years ago when a lot of this manufacturing footprint was constructed.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
That makes total sense.
And then just in terms of the advertising spending and going back to historical levels I mean what is the money going to be spend  I know you said youre going to move a lot of stuff from conventional to digital but do you still kind of think that maybe the coastal strategy is on a hold and then maybe you know kind of were using the  what the brands report besides TEN.
No we  Bill I think we talked in the last quarter the quarter before about some reduction in the coastal program not because we dont think there is opportunity there but we just couldnt see the  get the activation that would have made the spend most affective so theres been a lot of that in our  a lot of those kinds of adjustments in our total marketing plan.
You know as I said at TEN were still investing and Larry talked about it its early its important.
So we made the adjustments we think are the right adjustments to make given whats happening in this environment and making sure that they are really aligned with what our field teams are doing in terms of execution at retail.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
And then how it adds out  and if so things do becoming a little better obviously the weather comps are pretty undemanding.
I mean will you let that flow to the bottom line or you take some of the incremental savings and put it back into the marketing line? No Ive said this to everybody we spend on that which gives us a return at what we think we should do and its not a function of spending top line  you know unexpected top line margin dollars just to spend.
And I dont think anybody would do that anyway but  Inc.</strong> Beneath the price.
Yeah.
And somewhat  and the decision with us its first and foremost is driven by the analysis of data were presented with on the project.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thanks very much.
Youre welcome.
Your next question comes from the line of Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Good morning Bonnie.
I was hoping you could give a little more color on your beverage concentrate business.
Typically this business you know its outperformed your packaged beverage business but this quarter your volume was down quite a bit so could you drill down a little more on what some of the main drivers of this were and then really how we should think about this business going forward? Bonnie its Marty good morning.
Ill take this initially.
I would tell you their volumes were a little weaker in December than we thought and well see what happens in January whether or not certain bottlers decided theyre not to buy concentrated before yearend or not.
We have at least some bottlers who just want to keep their inventory levels lower.
And Ill also encourage you to think about beverage concentrate versus packaged beverages.
Dont forget beverage concentrate is pretty much all reliant on CSDs.
Okay.
Alright.
So they dont  were versus as I just said packaged beverages is starting to put more emphasis on having greater success in the non-carbs.
And of course you know within beverage concentrates its reliant very much on brand Dr.
Pepper.
So like I said December was a little lighter than we thought.
I know weve also made a change in the concentrated weve got some high yield concentrated so its a more effective package to ship because it has less water in it and I think some bottlers waited for us to put that product out and buy it in January instead of December.
So just to clarify youre already seeing the business improve from December? Id say we see signs in January and there may be some purchases that would have otherwise happened in December may have happened in the first half of January.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Swartzberg at Stifel Nicolaus.
Hey good morning.
This is Jesse Reinherz in for Mark.
Just a quick follow-up to Bills question.
Given the pressure weve seen in the CO2 volumes and the excess capacity that you guys mentioned have you ever explored getting into the private label business or just perhaps seeking out additional co-packing arrangements or they just really going to be business as usual going forward thank you? Weve always done a little bit of contract pack you see that in our numbers.
We do it very opportunistically.
We do it where we have capacity.
We make sure that were in the right shipping lanes because as Marty mentioned earlier transportation gets very expensive on that.
But as far as wanting to get into it thats not what we do we build and enhance leading brands and we will continue to do that.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
And your final question this morning comes from the line of Michael Steib with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up question on the SG&amp;A line in the quarter.
I think you mentioned that of the $28 million reduction some $9 million was due to phasing of marketing spend my question is you know whats the remainder  where is the remainder coming from? Are these RCI savings and are these going to be going forward into the next year thank you? Now Michael its a combination.
We said we have some favorability in health and wellness cost but Ill also tell you that all of the RCI initiatives that are being deployed particularly in our DSB business all of that is showing up as productivity improvement in SG&amp;A.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Well thanks again for joining us on the call today and for your continued interest and investment in Dr.
Pepper Snapple.
Thank you.
This concludes todays Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
You may now disconnect.